ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Mr Samo Bevk from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., Mr Ferri Horvat, Mr Miran Jerič by 3 p.m., Mr Anton Kokalj, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Mr Milan Friday by 1 p.m. and Mr Milenko Ziherl. Allow me to say before I begin that today we are exactly one year away when the National Assembly has almost unanimously adopted a constitutional treaty for Europe. Date 1.2 forms the number 12 on the flag of the European Union in the form of gold - yellow stars depicts the parable of perfection, 12 months, 12 days and night hours, 12 apostles and 12 Heracles' works. And although the European Constitution is not yet in force, I would like our meeting to take place in the spirit of Europe as much as possible. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyrights and Relative Rights, Summary Procedure. We have two hours and 35 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation, namely Mr Minister Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Good-bye! The Law on Copyright and Related Rights was adopted in 1995 and last completed in advance. The proposed amendment, however, aligns the law mainly with two directives, the Directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and the Directive on Lasting Rights in favour of the author of original works of art. Amendments to the law necessary to comply with the Directive on the exercise of intellectual property rights improve the position of holders in the exercise of their rights in civil proceedings. The solutions proposed shall, to the extent possible, refer to the applicable arrangements in the general rules. The law therefore lays down only those different conditions for the use of existing institutes which are necessary under the Directive. This is the first alignment. The second harmonisation is also due to the directive on the latter's right to benefit the author of the original artwork. The news is that there are precise amounts of refunds due to the author of the original works in the case of another and the subsequent sale of the original if the sale is made through persons engaged in marketing, such as galleries and so on. The latter right is for the benefit of only the author of works of art and sculpture and does not affect the rights of other holders. In addition to complying with the Directive, of course, the Ministry and the Government have also listened to a number of initiatives in particular to the economy, craftsmen and therefore, in addition to the changes related to the Directives, which I will now talk about, have nothing to do with the Directives, we have also proposed Article 7 or Article 163a of the Act, which introduces a specific form of arbitration in the area of dispute resolution between collective organisations SAZAS, ZAMP, the IPF Office and representative user associations. This lays down another means for the out-of-court resolution of disputes or disputed issues in the area of collective determination of rights, in particular as regards the fixing of the level of tariffs. Indeed, in practice, tariff disputes have in fact been resolved very often by the absence of an agreement and, in fact, there was no willingness to negotiate. As a result, in fact, the application of the proposal or the position of one party, with the other party not having an option, was an option, but there was no effective opportunity to exercise these rights. Therefore, according to the proposal of the law, arbitration, which is of an enforceable nature, is designed so that the procedure can also proceed on request and with the participation of only one party. I must point out that, of course, after the debate in the National Assembly, we have also experienced a whole set of open dilemmas with this solution, which is why, in view of the amendments tabled and the views of the following group members. Since this proposal of a forced nature does not enjoy sufficient support in Parliament, I still think that this is the only effective way to resolve these disputes, the proposaler, this is the Ministry of Economy and Government, supports the amendment of SDS, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, which is the most appropriate way to transform the proposed institute into a legal arbitration based on voluntary or agreement between the two parties involved. However, I think that this is only one step, but my assessment is that it is not sufficient to effectively resolve such disputes, so the Ministry of Economy will prepare a new tariff section for this law for the summer holidays of Parliament and the Government, and will therefore more appropriately address the remaining open tariff-related issues and the procedure for setting these tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on the Economy and I ask Vice-President Rezman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Good morning and thank you so much for saying that. The government has sent this bill to Parliament and the Committee on the Economy has been designated as the parent working body. We, as the minister said, have been dealing with this for about a decade with the law and experience on the committee. We have tried to follow what the law is intended in principle to regulate constitutionally guaranteed rights. In doing so, we follow the principles established by the law, which are natural rights, that is, human rights that cannot be alienated, and that these are rights that must have similar status in the international world, and that they can also be effectively protected and recovered. The government, as we say, was a proponent, after a reduced procedure, we have considered this in terms of implementing those directives that the Minister mentioned and some other innovations that were marked as less important and therefore reduced proceedings. However, it appeared in the debate that these dilemmas are very important for some and, in particular, around these dilemmas, a slightly more heated debate developed in the meantime. So those less important changes and additions required are, for the first time, the imposition of arbitration - we must say that it was what was proposed in the opposition with itself, because it is not free because it is not voluntary because it was envisaged as compulsory - and the right of the market inspector, that is the second part that has the possibility of being punished afterwards. In order to comply with EU directives, it is a matter of protecting intellectual property and the last right of original works of art. The purpose of this proposal is to harmonise, harmonise with some of our other legislation, as well as, of course, European legislation. The aim is also to create innovation and inventions when more protected ones are also more stimulated. Now this piracy practice does not achieve this basic purpose of promoting invention and innovation. What was most important, or at least proved to be the most important, is the problem of resolving disputes between users and between those collective organisations which have the task of protecting copyrights as we say are irrefutable rights. The comments we have considered were made by the Chamber of Economics, SAZAS, IPF and some others, including the private and the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. It should be said that the law governing this in only 19 articles, i.e. the amendment and the amendment of the law in the 19 articles, was richly amended, that the legislative and legal service had comments to seven articles, and that more than a dozen of them were then adopted by the amendments. Some amendments were rejected. In particular, the amendments of the Committee were adopted, the amendments of the LDS were rejected and one amendment proposed by the four-party coalition was adopted. The point, which was fundamental, was a comment on the obligation of arbitration, but unfortunately it was not adopted and remained the subject of discussion after the meeting of the Committee. As we have seen, today three amendments have also been put in place in connection with this failure to respect the proposaler for substantial comments from the legislative and legal service. The Committee adopted the amendments, adopted all the articles and proposed a complementary proposal for amendments and additions to the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman, you can just stay for the pay phone to present DeSUS's position. Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Of course, the position of the DeSUS Group is not particularly different, except in one important point. We have already presented on the Committee a position on the irresistibility of copyright, a position on the inadmissibility of the compulsory nature of arbitration, which then passes even to absurdity in the exercise. In fact, the exercise refers to the fact that when two of them do not agree on arbitration, and the essence of arbitration is agreement, volunteering, then one partner can lead the arbitration forward without the cooperation of the other and thus even impose on him the costs that arise for arbitration. An even bigger problem arises after the decision is callous and the one who refused to participate in the arbitration that refused voluntary cooperation is, in fact, forced and is not able to complain. That is why we have already proposed the possibility of further coordination and preparation of proposals. The DeSUS Group will support the proposal, which it has also signed. The two other proposals for amendments, according to our assessment, are correct, and the LDS amendment is our fault in deleting the whole article, in the amendment proposed by the Social Democracy, but the difference is that there is only a small change in the first part, in the second part and in the third part, in points 2 and 3, but we have already agreed on the Committee on the Economy with the proposer of this amendment. We will support the amendment signed by the four parties, and we hope that this amendment will also receive the support of the other two.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Bojan Rugelj, who will present the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Nice authorial greeting, especially to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Visiak. The aim of the law is to comply with the directives of the European Community and to include certain amendments and additions. It concerns Directives 2004/48 and 2001/84. Directive 2004/48 aims to harmonise the exercise of intellectual property rights in the Member States. To date, harmonisation of national rules has mainly focused on material regulations such as brand, model, patents for biotechnological inventions and certain areas of copyright. However, for the first time, Directive 2004/48 harmonises the procedural provisions of national rules governing the enforcement of intellectual property rights. Infringements of intellectual property rights, especially in cases of counterfeiting and pirated goods, are becoming increasingly common, which seriously threaten national economies with their scale and international dimension. There is an urgent need to simplify the procedural provisions on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the single market, which will be achieved by harmonising national legislation with Directive 2004/48. However, the main amendments to the copyright and related rights law resulting from the implementation of Directive 2001/84 are as follows. The following right shall be exercised only when the original work of art is resold by the seller, buyer or broker engaged in the marketing of art. It is determined what is considered to be the original of the works of art, which are the liabilities for the payment of the compensation. The refund is fixed as a percentage of the share of the price. The maximum amount of the refund shall also be fixed. From amendments and additions, which also bring news, I would like to mention the proposed new 163.a Article of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which provides for another remedy, namely arbitration for the out-of-court resolution of disputes between the collective organisation and the representative association of users with regard to the conclusion of a common agreement and the arrangements of obligations that users have with respect to the use of protected works to the relevant collective organisation. We believe that the arbitral determination of three between authors or their collective organisations and users and their interest associations is necessary, particularly where the parties cannot agree on the tariff. Author or copyrighted collective organisations have the right to determine the price of their works, but users must also have the right to decide whether or not to buy this work. Many times, users do not have this option, since television or radio cannot be turned off when music, radio or television receivers, such as a restaurant, are also designed to watch movies and sports and to listen to messages and reports, to which they have all the right not to be denied, even if the authors suggest so. In the end, authors have the right to prohibit the use of their works if no agreement is reached. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we call on authors and users to reach an agreement on setting tariffs that must be comparable to neighbouring countries, of course taking into account the different capabilities, such as gross domestic product. In this we see the true meaning of the possibility of an agreement or arbitration. However, the amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act makes it clear that in the case of provisions on infringements, it is the competence of the market inspector to act on the basis of a rapid procedure in certain cases. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the following word, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Good morning, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, if you ask for the necessary tenderness, of course you will get it. The protection of copyright and related rights requires special sensitivity. It is a matter of protecting intellectual property in the most basic sense of the word. Our society wants to be a knowledge-based society. And who else, if not authors, are somehow the bearers of that knowledge. The Directive of the European Parliament on the exercise of intellectual property rights and the latter on the latter’s right to the benefit of the author of original works of art complement and strengthen the system of rules governing the protection of copyright and related rights. This system of regulations in the Republic of Slovenia was marked as exemplary at the time of Slovenia's admission to the European Union. From this point of view, these supplements are such that they actually strengthen these rights. And that's good, and that's what our club supports. This is also the basis for respect for intellectual property and its rights in all forms. Perhaps, however, it is not too much to say for the purposes of this discussion that property in all its forms enjoys constitutional protection. This is something that many in this Chamber, as well as a group of Members who have already presented their position, are not fully aware of. However, the Constitution allows property intervention only in exceptional cases, and even these exceptional cases do not refer to this type of property, but rather to property intervention and not to any permissible intervention, but should be specifically regulated by law. It is therefore necessary to be aware of not only the copyright and related rights law, these directives that we implement, but also the constitutional order in force in the Republic of Slovenia. The Group, as it is said, supports the law in the part where it translates the directive into Slovenian legal order, despite some concerns that we are moving ahead with the writing of the euro. This recording is systemicly problematic, but obviously it is not welcome here to respect the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. We also support a solution that makes it possible to conduct market inspections more effectively. This instrument will certainly do much to help if it is used to make the protection system more effective and that all those who have problems, as it has been heard on the committee, with the "payment of the luft" will more quickly understand that intellectual property, if used, is also to pay an appropriate compensation for this use. What we object to in the LDS Group of Members - and here also the amendments to Article 7 do not bring a special solution - are provisions on arbitration. The provisions of this Article must be deleted in full; if not deleted, of course, the author shall be decommissioned in an indirect manner. It will be possible to say something about it within this debate, but the only solution now that can no longer be disputed is the deletion of the article, because without deleting the article in fact by one move, we will destroy everything they have built with directives and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Janko Weber, who will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we unquestionably support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in the part concerning the introduction of directives, because we are aware that copyright is a single right in copyright that arises from the creation of work itself. Copyright as the author of the monopoly on the exploitation of copyright ensures the author of the property benefit and respect for the moral interests in exploiting his work. In order for the general public to understand this copyright work, there are also related rights, as we need performers, for example, in songs, to present what the author wrote in the form of notes. And of course, the notes themselves cannot yet represent to the public how quality work has been created. In such a way, these related rights make it possible to access the public and thus include both artists and musicians. And that this creation is fixed and capable of playing, audio and visual recordings are also included. Only in this form can we then mediate through the air the widest possible mass of copyright. It goes to this law or to copyright and related rights for relations on the one hand between copyright and related rights and users. RTV organisations are also one of the largest individual users of all kinds of works. Of course, we meet users both at mass events and in service activities. Establishing relations between all is really extremely difficult, so the authors unite in collective organisations and users exercise their right through representative associations. We are concerned that the proposer intervenes among all actors in a unilateral way, which will lead to an inescapable situation between authors and beneficiaries of related rights and users, since the applicant wishes to apply arbitration which, according to its content, as set out in Article 7, cannot possibly be. The proposal is contrary to the principles of arbitration, since the essence of arbitration is that its competence requires the consent of the parties and is a voluntary decision of the parties participating in the arbitration. We therefore propose an amendment to the law, which deletes the controversial text of this Article. However, we would like to draw attention to some of the facts in practice, as we note that collective organisations do not, however, take sufficient account of the public's attitude in the humanitarian and or free performances. Here I have in mind as much music as, of course, the gift of art, because in these cases collective organisations are charging the author's fee. We are convinced that this is not in the interest of the authors, but if it is, it would also have to be clearly stated and then enforced. Therefore, we also expect rules on tariffs to be drawn up already during this period, which will take account of humanitarian objectives. And let me remind you that there are also voluntary fire companies, societies that have the status of a humanitarian organisation. In fact, they are often the beneficiaries of works of art and often face additional costs as a result of such an approach by collective organisations. Public relations are extremely important for the exercise of copyright. The public is also certainly aware that they bring the copyrights of immeasurable acquisitions and enable the development of a society or general civilization, both literary, artistic and scientific works, the interpretation of artists, factory, commercial and service brands and so on. Unilateral behaviour in the development of civilisation is unacceptable and certainly leads to dissatisfaction, so we expect that the amendment we have tabled to this law will be adopted and will allow for dialogue and, in our opinion, the only appropriate way to exercise copyright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the following word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Well-known vice-president, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The changes and additions to the law that lie ahead of us have been the subject of extensive discussions on the home working body. The 1995 Basic Law has been supplemented and amended three times to date. It is now complemented by the implementation of the remaining two European directives into the Slovenian legal order and introduces an out-of-court resolution of disputed issues concerning the conclusion of a joint agreement between representative associations of users of protected works and between collective organisations. Copyright is based on natural law and, as such, is constitutionally declared between human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we believe that Slovenia must also ensure the same level of protection of copyright and related rights as regulated in the European Union. This will also be possible and ensured by the introduction of the said Directives. Art works are complemented by the latter right which has already been known by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The Article specifies the amount of compensation for the author, if his work is of art, that is, the original, which was withdrawn from his side, has been resold. Following the proposed amendment, the payment of the refund for the reselling of the original works and thus the latter right is related to the professional sale, but not to the sale of the original between persons not engaged in their marketing. There has been an extensive debate on the working body as to whether it is permissible that the amounts of compensation are already in euro, given that the official currency is still tolar. In our Group of Members, we consider such discussions to be redundant just before the euro is taken over, and especially infertile if the debaters are standing on different shores, each with its own right. However, the applicant stated in the transitional provision that the amounts of the said introduction of the euro are accounted for in the Tolar equivalent at the average rate of the Bank of Slovenia. The most recent amendment to the law adopted in 2004 has redefined the collective organisation's obligations to conclude with representative associations of users of protected parts of the common agreement, which set out in particular the conditions, method of application and the amount of compensation for the use of protected works. Where the agreement was concluded, the refund concluded in the agreement was as a tariff for the use of protected works. However, if the agreement is not concluded, users shall be paid compensation for the use of protected works at the rate adopted by the collective organisation. Due to major disagreements between collective organisations and users that prevent the conclusion of joint agreements, the amendment introduces arbitration as an additional means of dealing with issues outside the court between the collective organisation and the representative association of protected works users. Also in the New Slovenia Group - The Christian People's Party, we estimate that the new institution will contribute or at least contribute to work, as the minister mentioned earlier, to a faster out-of-court resolution of the issues at stake. Above all, in our Group, we expect those changes to be made, and those expected by the summer, as mentioned earlier by the Minister, have brought appropriate solutions to the users of protected works in the field of the economy, which constantly remind us of the pressures of collective organisations on the basis of increasing additional financial requirements that are incompatible with tariffs in other countries. We know that now three associations, namely Sasas, Zamp and IPF, have permits for collective exercise of copyright and related rights, for different areas. And that craftsmen, innkeepers, hairdressers, etc. receive accounts from all three associations for the use of music, not just a surprise for them, but a number of them are not able to transfer financially. It is therefore essential to agree on tariffs which will be acceptable to all. Tariffs which will not be a dressing room for users of protected works and not a snack for owners of copyright and related tariffs. We will support the proposed changes in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights constitute less difficult harmonisation of the provisions of the Law with the law of the European Union. It is a matter of coordinating two directives, namely the Directive on the exercise of the rights of national ownership and the Directive on Lasting Rights in favour of the author of original works of art. The proposed amendments are less difficult in nature, as they rely more on the current regulation in general rules and only set out in law those exceptions which are necessary under the directive. The law of the institution of follow-up law already regulates and only has to be aligned with the provisions of this Directive. The draft law also introduces special arbitration in the area of disputes between collective organisations and representative user associations, which provides for another means of dealing with issues of collective rights outside the courts. The Committee on the Economy had a rather lively debate and a lot of concerns about the recording of the euro's payment fund. We all know that at the time of entry into this country, the euro will be the same as before. We also know that by entering a course into this legislation it would certainly be quite indisputable with regard to the exchange rate and then constantly changing it would be irrational and I think that this is a completely practical and rational move, but it will be recorded that this story is being implemented with the euro and thus deprives the ministry and Parliament and all for a lot of work in this area in the future when the euro enters into force in Slovenia. Despite some concerns about national pride and everything, I think this has nothing to do with it and that we still respect it and our tolar is still ours. But it is true that the debate ran a lot in terms of burdening users against these authors, because these many positions that have come and come to certain places, so to speak, are burdensome for many entrepreneurs, and quite a lot. We know that there have been many conflicts in this area in the past, how and what with this story. This was not the central theme of this law, but it is also important to highlight these many burdens, which must be appropriate in the future, because this is what is accumulated in the positions per year or per month. At the initiative of the economy, precisely because of such and other bad experiences in this area in the past, we have taken into account the amendment to Article 7 on arbitration for the out-of-court resolution of disputed issues, which have many times been a dispute between many users and operators, authors. These frequent disputes were not resolved or stopped, and even in court they did not experience a final epilogue. We therefore believe that such an out-of-court resolution in the context of arbitration could be aid to both parties in this story and would allow this extreme opportunity to be taken into account when there is no agreement between the two parties. We believe that this can be a step forward, and we will therefore support this amendment and thus also amend the copyright law. In the Slovenian People's Party we support this and believe that this will be a step forward in terms of supplementing this law on these rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The last is Mr Boštjan Zagorac, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I'll be very brief. I will try to avoid the definition of copyright, as it is written in law and lexicons, because some people have done it before me and I would waste your time because you have already heard twice what we are talking about, and I would not like to repeat it. I will certainly focus on the two matters which have been most pointed at us in the Slovenian National Party and which some of you have already mentioned before me. This is a so-called arbitration, which in fact was not an arbitration under this law, because arbitration, as someone has already said before me, is an agreement, and this law has allowed one party to proceed, if no agreement is reached, to lead forward and another to impose certain costs. We will therefore certainly support the amendment that solves this problem in the Slovenian National Party. Another issue that needs to be mentioned in the consideration of this law, and has already been mentioned before me, is the so-called introduction of the euro. We cannot agree with this issue in the Slovenian National Party. I think that this has also been pointed out by the legislative and legal service at the meeting of the committee - to the provision in the draft law that replaces the latter rights with euro, namely that such a solution is not appropriate in the legal system. We therefore oppose it in the Slovenian National Party, and we hope that the government will also give up on this issue. In principle, however, it will depend primarily on the adoption or non-acceptance of amendments in the resolution of arbitration itself or whether we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments tabled or more specifically on only one article and three amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the examination you have at the tables of 31.1.2006. We are talking about Article 7 and I am putting to the debate this article and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members, and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Who wants a word? I will read: Mr Školč, Weber, Rezman, Veršnik, Mikolič and Shirca. Of course, this does not mean that this list is complete. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, we propose that Article 7 or these provisions on arbitration be deleted. There's been a lot of talk about that. And if I have understood the Minister and colleagues of the coalition parties correctly, they are not themselves satisfied with the solutions they have so enthusiastically advocated on the parental committee and therefore predict changes in the near future. If these changes were to take place in the near future, I would remind you of a debate that was provoked by colleague Kontič two days ago. It would only make sense this time to listen to those who claim that arbitration, as it was intended and also as it is being corrected at the moment with various amendments, an instrument which, for the first time, is not worthy of this name of arbitration and for the second time, an instrument that will not be effective. If adopted as proposed by the coalition, it will experience the same fate as those that speak of voluntary mediation, and if adopted as adopted by the Committee, it will directly imply the possibility of depriving the authors of this indirect mechanism in their rights. Minister Vizjak refers in this debate to calls from the field. I ask him if he only listened to the users, because if he listened to the authors and performers, he would certainly not have proposed this last solution. Minister Vizjak also referred to the committee on the efforts of collective organisations which, under the law of the copyright-protecting organisation, were considered incompatible with democratic principles. Does this mean that the property of the authors is understood as something in common, to all of its own, and so is it permissible to interfere with someone else's property? For example, Parliament in this case with this mechanism. The coalition also insists that there is a need to distinguish between copyright and user rights and that these mechanisms are therefore admissible. And in this statement, it's my core of the misunderstanding. This is not about the same rights of those who are authors and owners of rights, and of those who use these things. Therefore, it is only appropriate to look back at what someone has said and what rights and whose rights someone is defending. Mr Mikolić said, for example, quote: "We all know that we have received a lot of calls from the field, in which there is a fundamental problem concerning the economy from all those who warn us about these tariffs, from hairdressing, from hospitality and so on. This is an essential problem because, in fact, the legislator is now trying to resolve it somehow, if it is not agreed, through arbitration." Mr Rugelj, as the speaker of the largest coalition party, says: "I will tell you again, of course you can say that we turn off the radio. I can say, you turn off yours. But who's forcing you to make music, and I don't want to insult any artist, no one, I'm just gonna tell you something else. It is necessary to find a common solution for the common determination of the price." I am not going into this underestimating attitude towards authors, but from all three of these performances, this philosophy is that actually the use of works of copyright is something that can be any barant. Of course that's not true. Authors enjoy full protection and fortunately for all of us who understand this, including the protection of European directives. Therefore, it is not possible to simply flatter them in this way. Article 7, I will talk about any correction, because for this second one, I think that much has already been said, brings a correction to the coalition in this first paragraph so that the collective organisation can, on the basis of, this is an addition, "may, on the basis of an arbitration agreement, require..." and so on. That is to say, if this first amendment of yours offers the possibility of an arbitration agreement brought by the word "may" means, nevertheless, that this agreement must be signed if we want the proceedings to proceed further. What will happen if this agreement is not signed or if someone refuses to sign it? Then, of course, it will be considered that all other provisions will not be implemented. Therefore, this bad conscience, which you have demonstrated with these two corrections, has not been brought to the end. On the one hand, you have agreed to delete the mandatory agreement while writing these provisions in such a way that they cannot be effective. Any person may, if he so wishes, decide on the basis of a law of judicial procedure allowing such an option. If you had decided on the basis of the law on fair procedure, there would have been no other problems that this article had. There, this procedure has been carried out in a more consistent manner and, above all, has something that this procedure does not have in this law. It has judicial protection, which is also a constitutional right. Therefore, dear colleagues from the position, I think it is good, for the benefit of not only this debate here, but for the protection of copyright and other rights and, of course, also for the benefit of the system of laws which in the Republic of Slovenia apply to withdraw from this scruples on arbitration in this law. As you can see, the repeal of the arbitration provision in what you write is fully prescribed, with the exception of one provision, from the applicable law. You dropped one of the key provisions. However, the action for annulment is also of a different nature. It is said that, in fact, this experiment that the Ministry has carried out in favour, and I do not want to offend anyone, as has been said here on several occasions, hairdressers and caterers, is an experiment that is essentially an essential part of the protection of authors and their rights. So please understand, take these two months of time and try to convince these organisations in particular to sit at the common table and look for possible ways to simplify communication between themselves and users. I'm sure that would benefit everyone. However, this attempt cannot be made and presented as a step forward, it is a step backwards, it is a step towards the ownership or maintenance of these copyrights, or perhaps, better said, to the cooperative. But I hope you don't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Meanwhile, young visitors have joined us on the Tribunal, which I welcome very much in the Slovenian Parliament. Now we continue the debate. They're asking for a replica. [[Slow down, Mr. Rugelj, not so impatient.]] The first one has a replica, Mr. Minister, and then Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I understand the Member of Parliament's defence of one side. I always ask that the whole matter should be viewed only more broadly, not only through the prisms of one side, such as authors, and not even through the prisms of the other side, users. We need to find and find solutions that are optimal and acceptable to all sides. Therefore, the current tariff-setting solution is not appropriate, since it does not force or stimulate the authors to reach agreements or any kind of agreement on this issue with the tariff-setting users. That's the solution, and I think it's a bad solution. That is why we have proposed arbitration with a single wish, a wish that this is an effective instrument for both sides to sit together, which is also the basic intention of the law to sit together. Of course, we have not found a better solution than this is somehow binding. Forced, to say the least. We are therefore still in the position that this would be the most effective method. Unfortunately, however, there is no support, no political support, so we have taken a step towards seeking political support and we support the amendment of the four coalition parliamentary groups in order to reach an agreement before the classical arbitration procedure, which is in some way also laid down in the law on fair procedure, on the subject of arbitration and of course on the arbitration process itself. It's just the subject of an agreement. Otherwise, the arbitration procedure shall be conducted in accordance with established principles. And it's not true, and you're deceiving when you say it's some kind of fiction, some kind of freak, no imaginary solutions. That's not true. These solutions are already preconceived in other regulations. Of course, there is a need to negotiate an arbitration agreement. For this reason, we will also determine in this transitional period whether, in the event of disputes, the will of the authors after the creation of an arbitration agreement, that arbitration will begin at all and, of course, it will also create a consensus solution if, even in this period, half a year, we have said that we will intervene in the tariff part, thoroughly - if at that time, we will also see that, because of the very harsh views of one or the other parties, they are ineffective, we will continue to correct them. It is the wish that neither the Ministry nor the official nor any other such tariffs be determined. It is desirable that these tariffs be determined on an objective basis by agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Patience is God's fat. Mr. Rugelj, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I couldn't wait. Yes, Mr. Školč, this underestimating attitude towards our authors is, of course, your words, not my words. I respect copyright work and I also know that they have their price and also authors have the right to set their price. Now I'm going to ask you what your attitude is to the users. Users must have the right to decide whether to buy it or not. Not that someone says, "Dear users, take the TV from your inn because we want to sell our services at such prices." No one has the right to say that. Users also have the right to have a TV to be informed that they listen to messages, sports and all the other things. If we get this far, soon we'll have nothing but copyright in here. I hope this doesn't happen. But the user also has the right to decide whether or not to take something. Now we get to the point. The point is that RTV in this case plays certain music and all the other programs it has, and the user can't turn off the TV as soon as the end of the movie. That's not how it works. And from this point of view, because he has the right to have it in, he has the right to be informed of what is going on, and that guest also has the right to participate in some way in shaping the price of this tariff of authors. The authors also have the right at the end of the day if they can't agree on the price to say, "Sorry, folks, we won't let you play these songs anymore," or whatever they have. But the problem is that this goes on television, and users pay the authors directly. That's the problem. Here's the key problem that's going to have to be solved. I welcome the Minister's decision to introduce an arbitral solution into this law. We know that no one has spoken or ever found a common language. I hope this will bring, at least the moral obligation is, both to authors and to users, to find a common language and also a common price. That's the whole point. I think that the law is very appropriate, but what the Minister has already said will also be needed to complete certain matters around these tariffs. But the point is to get close to these tariffs for our European comparable countries. Just that, nothing else. And I hope that even if there is arbitration or anything that will then take account of these criteria, what prices they have in these comparable countries, some average [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Mr. Rugelj, there are three minutes for the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Of course, we will also take into account the capabilities of our country. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Although it's going together at the same time, the replica is limited to three minutes. Mr. Mikolitch, is there a replica? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you. I'll be brief. Look, it's logical that copyright users have turned to us because they themselves feel that they have recently been insufferable about these obligations. And I don't know why anyone would object to us as if you were, why you're defending them, where this other side is, say, the authors or this collective organization they represent. It makes no sense to me, Mr. Skolcz, that you are in favour of them, because they have turned to you. However, it is our joint task, given that the law has been proposed in the procedure for the National Assembly, to alert and try to resolve these problems, which we know are on the ground. It may not be the most ideal or appropriate solution for this Article 7, but it is now one of those who only gives us some hope that these tariff-setting agreements will come to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Now we continue the debate. It's Mr. Weber's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Well, the amendment tabled under Article 7 corrects this article, which speaks of arbitration, because, as the text is written down, of course, it should not be written under the heading of arbitration, but rather a procedure which the applicant has wished or envisaged to resolve relations between collective organisations and representative associations. The adoption of this amendment shall bring this Article at least quite close to the concept of arbitration. Therefore, I believe that the adoption of this amendment is necessary if we are to keep this article as such. Of course, the solution to arbitration is extremely difficult, so that, in my opinion, procedures, if they arise on the basis of arbitration, will also be extremely difficult, extremely long and I am not sure that they will eventually lead to some concrete solutions. It is about trying to exercise copyright and related rights more intensively in the last period, which requires certain experience, certain procedures and, last but not least, the exchange of views on how to actually exercise copyright and related rights, so that users will be satisfied with what authors offer them, what they are offered by phonograms or via the media. This is also that relationship, I will say, between the author and the public, which is extremely sensitive and in my opinion it is also difficult to define in some arbitration. So allowing dialogue and finding common solutions is the only right direction in this law, and I think it will only lead to an extremely clear interest in both the National Assembly and the Government, that no legal change can be expected if they do not want to negotiate with each other, because a change of law will never lead to an appropriate solution. The mechanism that this instant day through mediation is certainly one of those mechanisms that could lead us to probably have really acceptable possible solutions, although not completely binding, there is mediation for both sides, but there is certainly some procedure that would show us whether it really makes sense then to continue these steps, perhaps even through arbitration. I think it's too difficult, though, to approach the arbitration immediately, because there's too many differences at the moment, as it appears in this area. Once again with these tariff rules, I would like to draw real attention to the warnings from, I will say, the terrain, in particular in the sense that humanitarian organisations or events are taken into account. Many times it is extremely difficult for NGOs in particular to provide funds to carry out their mission, but sometimes this would be said, even in full, I will say to the public institutions that because of the lack of public funds they simply cannot carry out their tasks in the way that the legislation does, and as expected by the users of services in these public institutions, I have in mind the homes of older citizens in particular, because they often use a variety of procedures, humanitarian events, which, of course, then try to obtain additional money and here are the musicians, artists and, of course, other authors who can help to bring some more money to this organisation by presenting their work. If copyright or collective organisations charge copyright fees for this, this is, of course, one of those matters which would certainly need to be defined more precisely in the tariff regulation and, above all, to allow such specific situations to be taken into account, which I believe are also in the interest of the authors. Thus, many times the authors also respond directly to their works and want to participate in these humanitarian events, and if the collective organisation does not have this in its tariff rules, of course there are problems. Thus, these open issues that arise in practice can, in my opinion, be introduced into these tariff rules and, of course, from year to year to improve these relations by acting on the fact that coalition parties have actually proposed an identical amendment, this provision or this amendment to Article 7 of the amendment will be adopted. I hope, however, that it will go all the way, as well as the proposaler, to insist even more on these discussions, that dialogues from the exchange of views on the exercise of copyright are, in fact, exercised only through dialogue and then through an appropriate regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Rezman's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you. If we look at the amendments we are talking about, of course, we will find that we are not now talking about how high these prices are and whether they are shabby or not, but we are talking about procedures, so how to reach an agreement and what has been mentioned several times, whether they are chopping or not, is probably a matter of some other conversation, some other debate that will also be necessary. But when we talk about these procedures and the protection of copyrights, of course, given the fact that they are copyrights, the rights of authors, we cannot pass through the authors, and we must defend their rights when it comes to copyright and, therefore, at least some on the authors' side. Their rights are at this point in particular. And in this respect we have, although there are three amendments, we are two amendments by content. One is that it is considered that the provision on arbitration should be deleted and the other is that it is only this forced nature of the envisaged arbitration to be eliminated. Social democracy and the four parties that have signed similar or almost identical amendments stand, I suppose, in the same positions, but that our proposal is somewhat, not substantially, extended to the first point, where the need for agreement is explicitly highlighted. And maybe this expulsion of arbitration isn't the best. First of all, it's not because there's no agreement. Secondly, some arbitration is a procedure that is supposed to be better, more favourable than judicial proceedings and even cheaper. So with less cost for those who can arrange this matter with arbitration agreements or decisions. It is therefore my view that it is right to support that amendment which eliminates the forced nature that allows arbitration and which, in the first paragraph, also stipulates that it must be enforced in this way of communication.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Veršnik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for saying hello to the representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. When dealing with amendments to Article 7 I find that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights needs to be amended. It is not only a reason to adapt to European legislation but also because of what we are all most vulnerable to. It's paying for services. That artists can appreciate their work I know from my own experience, which I think is right. But I also know that these same artists don't understand how hard it is to earn every tolar. Fourteen days ago, I was visited by a cable operator in my office for our area and brought me a financial report for 2004. Their 2005 cost of SAZAS was 8 million 919 thousand 855, which according to his statements and information is three times the cost of cable operators in our immediate neighbourhood in Austria, with which we are always very much compared. Especially interesting was his account of how they got to this price, which is still too high when compared with the neighbors. The story was comparable to what was happening at some Arab market, which means that the authors did not have the criteria, but they did go through the system, who will be who, which I think is not acceptable to modern technology and plenty of information nowadays. They barely agreed to give SAZAS - so the operator told me - had already knocked on their doors of the ZAMP association and in the next step the IPF association. They rightly wonder if this is all and fear when a new association will appear and demand a new payment. I must admit that I have not heard from the interlocutor that they do not want to pay copyright fees, but they want a fair and fair agreement between the two partners, each of whom knows their business and each representative, clearly, also their own interests. Acting in a stronger position does not benefit anyone in my opinion. I have heard a very similar view among the innkeepers, who also do not agree to be completely excluded from the events. Of course, some were greatly appalled about paying for such services, others were a little more cohesive, and all were united in agreeing on the position of equal interlocutors so that they would be in mutual satisfaction. I agree this won't be easy, but I say it's urgent. For these reasons, I understand that there has been such a heated debate on arbitration, which, in my view, is not the most appropriate, but has been offered to this end to require mutual negotiation and coordination. In view of the implementation of the Minister at today's meeting, I support his statement that the Ministry will address this problem by regulating tariffs in sub-legislative acts, which I believe will be the final solution to this problem. Therefore, in this situation, I will support the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the parties to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you. One more word. We will support this second proposal from the coalition of parliamentary groups by ourselves and also within our Group of Members. However, I would like to say that it is true that Article 7 is not subject to the height, tariff or, as I have already said, the level of the tariff, but if this tariff had not been a problem so far, the Government or the applicant would certainly not have touched this article or offered us some solutions. And these are facts and we may often be disturbed by some when for certain copyrights there are no real criteria in different areas, from art, literary works, to those that are created in the economy. These are the distressing conditions that we have today and that have often led us into a bad will. In this particular case, however, they put users at a disadvantage. However, with regard to this solution and the unresolved problems that have arisen so far, somehow this second amendment complements that first arbitration solution, so that, at least I think, from a legal point of view, it will somehow satisfy this title of arbitration. Once again, I will support the proposed second amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Respected arbitration shall replace agreements. There is no agreement because there is no consensus on what tariffs should be and what prices should be. Intellectual work is difficult to get a price, and this is the common denominator of the whole debate and also the result of such a resolution, as proposed by the Ministry. Mr. Minister said he couldn't look and he wasn't alone when he was preparing this solution through one prism. But I am afraid that the very Ministry represented only one prism, otherwise this article would not have been created overnight, at night, literally, the night has thrown out this article, which represents really one prism and one interest, the interests of users, or those who have salons, or those who have innkeepers. At night, however, he sometimes has a bad dream, and this article is actually the fruit of a sea or a fantasy, which has led to the morning reality and has improved, just as it did on the home committee. Personally, I think it is still bad, even if it is adopted, as proposed by the coalition, and it would undoubtedly be better if, without this enforcement solution, as the arbitration system brings it, but that, as has been said today, the agreement that users and authors have obviously not been able to achieve is, because it has not been possible to determine the value of intellectual work and, on the other hand, to define the interests of those who represent or have intellectual work. That is why I think that we should move in our heads and put intellectual work in place, as we have done in the past, because we have the best law, at least once said that the law on copyright and related rights is one of the most exemplary in Europe. With this dictatorship, I believe that its value is getting worse or weaker, so I will support Article 7 in a way that will remove it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman, the replica. Mr Mogue, just to be clear, we have you on the list as Mrs Shirca, and not least, ladies have the advantage of giving you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I would somehow say that we are going here as a Samaritan to determine the support for this article proposed by the Liberal Democracy. Why? Not only ownership, but also the market, the market economy is set up by a new country, with the whole society on different bases than before. It was a labour market, it knows who is setting the price of work and somehow it is supposed to work. If we look at that labour market that relates to the material fabric of the work, someone who comes in and has a corking machine, comes in the morning, includes it, the labour market is fixed and does not deal with users. Now, of course, the intellectual labour market is the only market where they sold their intellectual work a long time ago, even in Titus Yugoslavia, they were lawyers. They were selling intellectual work, the price was fixed through tariff and this price was acceptable without users talking, but that the bar on the other hand was talking, but it was set through certain mechanisms and these mechanisms are still today. If we look at another mechanism, a labour market mechanism, like notaries, there's a tariff. It is known who has determined it, who has given its consent and, at least as far as the government's work is concerned, has been well accepted among those using notary services. But when we are dealing with intellectual work, as far as culture is concerned, and through these cultures we always break and beat them, we do not want to save them alone, their validity, we do not want to make it our own that they, like other intellectual professions, can live as elsewhere in the world. Here we go with them intellectual self-government, which we have known from the past. Why am I talking about this? The government of Janez Janša has an apparatus of 34,000 people in which the government operates. I'm not going to mention that I wouldn't hurt anyone, how many of them are involved at the Ministry of the Economy. And if this ministry is not able to achieve consensus and some fair tariffs without this intermediate article just to negotiate with those who consume these services and, therefore, who are also creating them somewhere, then this problem is excluded from the Ministry and let them negotiate, fight, because they will eventually be able to draw, it is a little insulting to our culture. I think that they should take on this role and, within the framework of the law, if we delete this article, solve this problem alone with the people who are employed there, such as Sturm himself solved his problem and others. Look, if Prešeren woke up again, now we have our country as opposed to that Austro-Hungarian and would listen to this debate, I'd say this song of mine is still up to date: "Let's just start at Homer's, asking for poor days is old." By doing this, we do not work for ourselves by treating authors like this, but by doing so to the national assembly of Slovenian culture of some kind of promotion, but by trying these matters, which should be largely handled by the government, to put back on the shoulders of two parties of interest and that these two things should be resolved through arbitration, it reminds me of Rupla, who is not able to agree with Croatia otherwise than to go through some arbitration there as well. Let's stop this once, let's give the government our powers, do what we have to do, support this amendment, it's barely a second consideration, and let's also try to let the government somehow let go to solve this problem on its own, not to make us all tearful stand now for a Slovenian cultural holiday in Cankarjev's home, tears will creep in our faces when they sing our anthem, and we will enjoy the music they will perform, including the authors who wrote this music, but when we are here and when we have the opportunity to do something about the intellectual work of culturers, here we will of course try to push what somehow the government takes away some of the competences and part of the work and part of the problem that we can solve ourselves. That is why I strongly urge you to support this amendment, which we have proposed, and let us try to make the government play a more thorough role in negotiating the labour market in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Rugelj has the floor if he still wants it. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Look, here in the essence, or well, I'll say, you're one if you hold that old river that we've heard here a hundred times, more papal than the Pope. I personally spoke to the authors, with representatives of the SAZAS collective organisations, the IPF, none of them opposed the arbitration in the form that is now proposed. We, together with the Ministry of Economy, tabled that amendment, which in fact now deletes that compulsory arbitration. But against such an arbiter, I hope no one can have anything. Only an additional moral obligation is to reach a common agreement, which is a desire and a goal. And I watched that Constitutional Court decision saying "authors have the right to determine the price of their work," but it says, "the consumer has the right to decide whether or not to take something." However, we find this extremely difficult to do, as I have already said, the matter goes on television and consumers get bills. That's the whole point of the dispute or the problem. And this problem will be solved. And that is why there has to be a common agreement, and I think that the ministry has given this arbitration one more chance, both to authors and users, that it will only come to a common agreement, that they have not yet found it, but they have all the possibilities, from those mediations and I don't know what they have in common, and now they have a four-month deal again. As long as it is not within these four months when someone takes the initiative for these common tariff talks, they will come to an agreement, they will be able to propose arbitration and others will agree whether or not they will. This is the law, I don't know what's wrong here, because it can't be any better, and in the end, none of these artists had anything against arbitration. I talked to them, and we were at a meeting, and they didn't, because they absorbed the arguments. And, of course, they also agreed that we make European prices comparable in accordance with our capabilities, only that is the goal and I think it will be. And at the end of the day, it can also appear in the arbitration chamber that each party will also be able to propose certain criteria by which this should be done, but the basic criterion should be, these neighbouring European comparable countries, I do not know whether this is Hungary, Austria or anything else, but that we are somewhere within it. Now, of course, some say that we have several times the higher tariffs, others say we have lower tariffs, but I think that if all of this is reviewed, that we will only eventually figure out where we are and that we will eventually accept where we are, which is also right, in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Gulic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Dear President! I will say that I am happy to say that the Slovenian month of culture begins with the law, by addressing the law that is supposed to solve the problems in this area, but obviously we will only complicate them. It is also complicated because, of course, we introduce into a relatively consistent law again a splinter, a crack through which many things can be done, and especially to delay, to strain, of course, one another, one another. Today we are not talking about tariffs and tariff rules and, of course, there is much to tell here. Of course, I am in the position that, above all, all authors must be protected from theft, and of course all users from robbery, this should be the purpose of such a law and, of course, of a later tariff rule. It is also necessary to know that all those who complain to us because they come from all sides never tell the whole truth, not at all complain to those who are doing well, but especially those who are doing badly or who are so swallowing up that they want to have everything. None of these indirect users, who spin music, play movies in their rooms, said that, therefore, they are much more competitive on the market, that they have more visits, that they can have more visits and so on, despite the higher prices. These are matters that need to be settled in agreement and forced arbitration is certainly not arbitration. It's as if they legalized the rapture and then the one who's rapping, and the one who's growing the trees, asked them to arbitrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am myself in favour of agreements, including arbitration, if this is necessary, but we must get to this point first. About SAZAS, I think he's said enough about Ali N, or he's under a new artistic name now. I would like to draw attention to one of the most eclectic lacks of copyright in the field of journalism, perhaps because of the journalists themselves, because of their inorganisation. The fact is that today the articles are being distributed if we look at today's "clipping", 119 texts we received on "clipping" and no author, no journalist has received from this dissemination of his authorship any tolar. Slovenian pear [[PR]] agencies with their "clipping" spread press works without compensation and, of course, these pear tycoons in some way at the expense of journalistic work, photocopying, scanning, copying, extremely well earned. Journalist product, this is an article, essay, comment, all this is copyright work, journalists are signed under it. And just as plagiarism is a criminal or immoral act, so, according to my assessment, the criminal distribution of such texts, such journalistic texts without press consent and permission. On the other hand, journalistic houses are also damaged. For example, if he writes five papers today about an MP, the MP will not feel the need to go buy five newspapers, but will look at "clipping" what they say about him. I think it's time for the press houses and journalists to sit together and organise themselves so that these eccentric places of journalism will not continue to come. Journalists are also injured inside journalists’ houses, for example when a journalist writes about the print medium and his text the press house spreads through electronic media; but this is no longer a matter of this law, it is an issue of internal relations in journalists’ houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I fully understand and, of course, from this point of view, I welcome the intention of the competent minister to make arrangements. But, you know, sometimes setting something up means taking time to think about it. I didn't mean to advertise much, but when I listened to this debate at first, I was disturbed by some of the opinions of individuals that they were competent to set criteria for the value of intellectual work or artistic work, if you want. That's not true. We can't tell you now, I don't know, I'll say it in my head, but I'm going to take one serious piece like Marian Kozine, we can't say it now, I don't like it, it's not worth it. We can't judge the value of art. On the other hand, those who walk around saying they're for arbitration, they walk with figs in their pocket, with figs in their pocket, because they set themselves a higher price because they know they don't deserve it, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I see arbitration at this point only as a way in which some people with figs in their pocket are waiting and looking for the possibility that they will add some value to themselves, but this value cannot be determined by someone, can't, just can't by arbitration set prices of intellectual work, can't. I'll give you another comparison. You know, I would be happy if, for example, the arbitration was at, at least in the municipality of Trbovlje, I would say, unfortunately, when it comes to when the commune, due to the rise in gas prices, raises the price of heating, there is no arbitration and now we are comparing the commune against the user. The consumer who tries music and wants to listen to it will complain through arbitration because he is not satisfied with the price set by artists, but how can someone who has to pay for heating, I don't know, 5% more, now I've signed the contract, through arbitration complaints. He can't, if he doesn't pay, my dears, shut down the heat line, who doesn't pay for his electricity, but there are at least some instruments, some indicators, in the intellectual, artistic part of these indicators.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Please, a little more peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	For example, we see that we have mediation, we have the possibility of procedures, because of the abuse of the monopolistic position of the collective organisation, the legislative and legal service says that, as far as I can read, the sanctioning of arbitration by the legislative and legal service of this national assembly strongly opposes this. I'm saying it again. I understand the intention, but we can't solve it this way, colleagues and colleagues, we can't solve intellectual artistic copyright in such a way that we're now going to be setting an arbitration price as much as any painter, writer, journalist, musician, anyone who's worth it. No, the market will do its own thing, and let's respect what the law gives us. It is, however, as a respected colleague, two of them have said, but indeed, Comrade Gulič has made it clear that we want to protect authors from theft and users from robbery, but whether this arbitration is the right way. As the honourable colleague has said, Mr Može, even earlier, this is not how it works, so it is indeed right to accept this amendment and actually leave it to the government to solve this problem under existing legal options. As my esteemed colleague Gulič said a little earlier in the conversation, that is, on the other hand, as we would write an additional article of the Constitution for each law, so that the law will have a basis in the constitution. Indeed, once again, I have no objection to users being protected, but the user can assess some value intellectually, personally, in his own opinion. Today's market price, that's what it is. Or should it be repaired in some other way, but not in any way, it does not seem fair and does not seem to me like arbitration, because it will in fact begin to introduce some leveller in the artistic field as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. And Mr. Rezman, Mr. Pike. You have a replica, Mr. Pike. It's a debate. Then Mr. Rezman, then you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Some discussions have now taken things away from the point of view by simplifying. Nevertheless, I will risk trying to tell you in a plastic way how it is possible to appeal to our amendment, the amendment of the four parties. Look, we all don't have that kind of luck and that kind of ability that Wolfgang Amadeus Mozzarth had to hear a voice without sounding. That's why some people have to write it. And the one who writes it is the author, he's a composer, he has the right to an adequate compensation. His work is his own, and he cannot be alienated except by his consent or by his payment. However, we do not all have this happiness to be uniformly literate. Someone can give us a score, but it doesn't mean anything to us, and then there has to be someone else who knows what's been agreed upon, that those of us who don't have that luck to have all the skills developed can hear that. So first we have one organization that collects and another that collects, and third and fourth, and one that is likely to happen, and that is not illogical. This is logical, since we have different authors, we must also have different contributions to pay them this compensation. And all those who compose, who then do it, do it as authors so that others can hear it. And when we hear that, I suppose, most of us enjoy it, and then we pay for it. It's not like we're having a free day. But also authors, because I also talked to them and negotiated directly, know that this is not just written for themselves, that they write for others, and that they also confirm that when others listen, they are rewarded, etc. And so, let me conclude with this, also on their part, what we are proposing has been marked as something that is above a threshold that would not be acceptable to them. So they take it as something they can agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I also support the amendment tabled by coalition parties for a simple reason, as it is always better to agree than some kind of compulsion. We must always give both sides a chance to agree, and then there will be other measures that they can choose for themselves, so we also have the end of the court and so on. I look at this music and authorship as a kind of thing, at least we call it a fun music industry and the country is in some way also withdrawing from this area and leaving it to both sides to agree on their own, if only possible. I will point out once again that it is better for both parties to agree than forcing themselves into some kind of compulsion. And that arbitration must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My list is exhausted, and there's something else. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Mr. School can't do this anymore, because in this case time is no longer shared with the amendments. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.35 p.m. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - This is a second defence proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Security Schemes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. And, of course, I don't see a representative of the Ministry. The Minister's coming. I welcome Mr Podobnik, Minister, and the word is yours for the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	Good afternoon. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the arguments for amending the proposed law. I'd like to brief you on some chronological data in the introduction. In April 1999, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a national housing savings scheme as a systemic basis for promoting long-term planning savings in order to increase the volume of favourable long-term housing lending. On 15 September 2000, the first Act on the National Housing Savings Scheme was adopted. The establishment of a national housing savings scheme was then a very good idea in 1999. During this period, the banking sector offered rather uncompetitive lending conditions compared to the developed countries. This was also found by experts from the World Bank. At the time, banks had high interest rates, high loan approval costs, no scheme. Banks lacked quality long-term financial resources. By introducing new long-term savings, the national scheme has provided banks with long-term financial resources. During this period, the scheme was essentially a product that allowed savers to access competitive conditions that the banks did not offer with their then market products. By adopting the scheme, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia relieved itself of the functions of the creditor for natural persons and thus released funds for other purposes, for the construction of non-profit dwellings, in particular with projects of co-investment. Many apartments were built, price standards were set for housing construction in the non-profit sector. During these years, since there has been savings in the housing scheme, savings have already resulted in 83,000 savings, 33,000 of which have already ended with savings. The call for the selection of banks for savings in the scheme in 2004 and due to the strongly changed macroeconomic conditions, we were then witnessing a rapid reduction in interest rates, even due to the adoption of the housing scheme, failed for at least the following reasons. First time. The interest rates in banks have changed significantly since 2000 so that the savings scheme for banks has become too expensive on the savings side and on the credit side, commercial loans have been equalised or even more favourable than the scheme. Another time. Since the current scheme is generally cost-effective and does not provide housing savings, and in its context it also saved savers who did not intend to solve the housing issue, the banks have to repay the premiums of those savers who will inadvertently spend the savings, which will therefore not rent the loan to the bank where they were saving. And the third time. The problem of the current law was also the maintenance of revalorisation. Due to these shortcomings in the national housing savings scheme and also in order to adapt the scheme to the current market situation, the proposal for a law brings the following essential novelty. Allow me to schematicize them. First time. The scheme is transformed from a general austerity scheme into a dedicated housing savings scheme. Another time. The conditions for obtaining a premium are changing, which after amending the law should be linked to the purposeful use of savings or credit and not as so far as the purpose of borrowing the loan alone. Third time. Interest rates change on the savings and on the lending side so that banks as well as savers find their interest in participating in the housing savings scheme. Revalorization is under way. Fifth. The determination of the saving period shall also be amended. The bill provides the solution that it is possible to save for a period of at least five to a maximum of ten years and not as so far as it has been possible to save only for a period of five or ten years. Six. The saver shall be entitled to the premium at the end of the one-year saving period, but not, for example, to the one-off payment of all premiums during the savings period. The amount of the premium shall be equal to one twenty-four annual savings. The Social Democrats' parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment to this solution. Then I will explain my position on the amendment in the debate. The saver must pay at least 10 monthly meals in the savings year, not more than 12 as before. If he doesn't pay everyone, the bank has to warn him and give him a deadline in which he can pay for the missing meals. After the expiry of the period within which he did not pay the missing amounts, he shall be deemed to have resigned from the contract. And another important argument. The law also introduces a completely new chapter on subsidisation of young families to first solve the housing issue by buying or building. Therefore, the title of the law itself had to be supplemented. Today, the law under consideration will have the following title: The National Housing Savings Schemes and Grants Act for Young Families to First Solve the Housing Problem. The subsidy is not related to saving in the scheme, but it is justified by any young family who for the first time solves the housing issue by buying or building - the emphasis is on the word for the first time. A young family, however, is each family with one or more children, with at least one child not yet obliged to attend school. Therefore, the status of the young family is not linked to the age of the parents, but to the age of the child. A definition of the family members of the young family is also added and a defined procedure for the tendering of subsidies and the possibility of a complaint against the subsidy decision. The income of a family member will be checked if he exceeds half of the average income in the Republic of Slovenia, then such a young family will no longer be entitled to subsidies if it solves the housing issue for the first time. Otherwise, it will receive the first four years after buying 160 euros per family member and the next four years will receive 100 euros per family member. Together, the young family, after this bill - for this reason we also have a financial basis in the approved budget for the next two years - which meets the income requirement, most importantly as half of the average income per family member, can therefore receive a subsidy of up to eight years. The four-member family will thus receive 4,160 euros in eight years. However, the current budgetary capacity of the State and the budgetary resources envisaged for these purposes do not allow for the recovery of the subsidy, as proposed by the amendment signed by Mr Potrč. More details of the arguments and the content of this amendment in the debate. And a few more arguments for a change of law. Under the current law, the saver must use a loan for the purposes of this Act within one year of the end of the savings, which is a short period of time under the given conditions. That is why we have made a change and propose that this deadline be extended to two years after the end of the savings. This will also partially relieve the pressure on the real estate market in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's the last point. If banks allow already existing savers to extend the time limit for the conclusion of the loan agreement, these banks will also have an appropriate extension of the time limit for the repayment of unintended savings premiums. Dear Members and Members! I am confident or expect that the amended law, which is now under procedure, will allow many young families and other savers to realize, if we may say so, their dream of their own home. That is why I expect you to support the law after this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Environment and Space. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Petan, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly on Environment and Space carried out a second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Savings Scheme, which now also has a different title, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ordinary legislative procedure. The proposed law was also given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government, and the Association of Banks of Slovenia also forwarded comments. In the introductory words, Minister Janez Podobnik highlighted the principles and main solutions of the bill's proposal relating to the change from the general savings scheme to the housing savings scheme and the linkage of the benefits accepted by the saver in the form of a premium to its intendedness. Similarly, the conditions for the acquisition of premiums to be linked to the purposeful consumption of savings assets or credits to be leased by the saver after the end of the savings period are changed. The proposal changes interest rates on the savings and lending side so that customers and savers, banks and savers find interest in participating in the housing savings scheme. The proposal for a law is completely new in the form of subsidisation for young families who for the first time solve their housing issues. Young families would receive grants once a year, which are charged in tolars but in euro in tolar equivalent to each family member. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that the reasons for an article may be insufficient or incomplete and that the reasons given in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are a mandatory component of the legislative proposal. The provisions of Articles 3 and 5 of the amendment of the Law, which deletes the previous opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, shall be underlined. It considers that the reasons for deleting the Bank's previous opinion should be clarified, particularly since the explanation shows that the proposed amendments to this Act were the result of the Bank of Slovenia's negative view of the call for savings under the National Housing Savings Scheme. In the context of the warnings of a legal and systemic nature, the legislative and legal service points out the introduction of new content in the law, namely subsidies. The legal system subsidy is not supposed to be part of the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, since it does not concern saving in the scheme, nor does it apply to borrowing a loan or using funds under the law. Therefore, according to the content of the cases covered by the Regulation, the subsidies are entirely independent of the national housing savings scheme, as the applicant made clear in his introductory part. It is therefore a new substance, with which the proposer should, in order to introduce it into this law, have to extend the bill itself. However, with regard to the content of the chapter relating to subsidies, notwithstanding the fact that the applicant pursues generally beneficial objectives with them, it points out, from a legal point of view, that there is no defined procedure under which subsidies are to be decided or an act by which the right to grant is decided, that there is no legal protection or what is considered to be the first solution to the housing issue. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environment and Space held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill. He also accepted his amendments. The discussion on the articles of the bill was supported by members of the Committee's amendments and additions to the bill, in particular on the fact that in recent years the fiscal conditions of the economy have changed, that the differences between passive and active interest rates are increasing and that the rate of inflation is within an understandable framework. The interest rates on the savings, on the lending side, change so that banks and savers find their interest in the housing savings scheme and in solving the housing problem. The premium is an additional incentive for savings under the housing savings scheme and belongs only to the saver in the event of the purposeful use of the savings assets. This further encourages the saving and repossessing of financial resources into permanent welfare arrangements for subsidisation of young families, which for the first time, tackle their housing issue, is an additional tool for promoting housing savings. The members of the Committee stressed the importance of security when it is to be obtained by savers within the framework of the housing savings scheme, both in providing land for construction and in the construction of housing facilities themselves. The Committee on the Environment and Space voted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on all the articles of the draft law and on the debate and vote on the amendments of the Committee and adopted them after the discussion had been concluded. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing National Savings Scheme Act was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and I invite Mr Hroat to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue that we are dealing with today is much closer to what we really want from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The national housing savings scheme promotes long-term savings. However, it provides savings in this scheme with a favourable, long-term housing loan, as it obliges banks to at least double the size of the savings loans given to them compared to the savings assets, of course in a well-known loan interest rate. The bill introduces entirely new subsidies for young families, which for the first time solve their housing issue, which means that the state allows all those who meet certain criteria in the law to obtain subsidies. The minister has already told us what these funds are, and I think it's only right to repeat them again. For the first four years, € 160 is foreseen and €100 per family member for a further four years. In our view, this is an important change that is going in the right direction, but we are aware that this is only the first serious step towards a real solution to the housing problem in Slovenia. Interest rates on both sides on the savings and on the lending side are changing in our view that banks and savers will find their interest in participating in the national housing savings scheme. The law will therefore allow for the implementation of the national housing savings scheme under comparable conditions and in the financial market and will allow them to be adapted to any changes in the financial market. However, changes in the law, especially in the work relating to subsidisation of young families, will in our opinion have a beneficial impact on young people's decision to resolve the housing issue, and thus on the long-term positive demographic trend. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support this law, and we expect the same from all other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Gantar on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister and Fellows and Fellow Members. The LDS Club does not oppose amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, which, of course, will also be the law on subsidisation of young families in the first resolution of the housing problem. The situation in the long-term housing loan market is, of course, quite different today from when we introduced a national housing scheme in Slovenia or when we introduced a national housing scheme as one of the instruments intended to facilitate access to ownership on the demand side of housing. As we know, something about this has already been said by the Minister, at the end of the 1990s we had great differences between passive and active interest rates, which have disstimulated long-term savings, we had a lack of specific long-term lending arrangements in banks to solve the housing problem, and there was a relatively high demand for short-term credit to consumer goods, such as cars or other consumer goods, more expensive or more luxurious nature. This showed that some categories of residents, however, have some money at their disposal, but they can turn it into - you might say - consumer goods. But they're completely powerless to solve the housing problem. And this is where this was the purpose of the national housing savings scheme. Because, apart from the loans granted by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, we did not have any other mechanisms to promote and assist housing. The national housing savings scheme was intended only as one of the instruments of active housing policy on the demand side of housing supply and not as a universal response to the housing supply quiz. Which was also repeatedly - I could say - mentioned in the media or in the public. In particular, the National Housing Savings Scheme did not solve the supply-side problems, although it did have an impact on larger construction in the private sector. At all, it did not solve the chronic shortage of rental apartments. However, within these objectives, if we look at the data - the national housing savings scheme was successful. It diverted a good share of short-term savings into long-term housing savings. In particular, it has also affected the fact that banks have also collapsed and have begun to prepare more favourable credit arrangements under other conditions, such as interest rate reductions and so on. Today we have, if we look at it, a supply of such loans or savings of credit or lending arrangements in banks already a lot. When we introduced the national housing scheme, I once said, I hope you will not take this too much if I quote myself: "...that the greatest success of the national housing savings scheme will be when it terminates itself. When it is no longer necessary, when the comparison of savings in essence will no longer be necessary." And given the changes that this law is introducing today, we are close to this point. The national housing savings scheme will basically no longer differ significantly from other savings arrangements. Her interest is likely to drop and gradually wear off. Including the flexibility envisaged here and supported. Alternatively, it should be considered that this flexibility would cover the lending period for a maximum of 20 years, which would certainly keep it alive and have an even greater function. Besides, I don't think she'll have any greater success in the future. The mortgage and utility bond law, which we discussed yesterday, will also expand the set of instruments for housing financing. With regard to subsidisation of young families for the first resolution of the housing issue, we do lack a more accurate analysis of these effects. We agree with the legal service's comments that this is procedurally poorly regulated and that this subsidisation should be gradually better regulated. Subsidy will be small and will not contribute much to the purchasing power of young families. Therefore, perhaps there is no further question: Have we not had any alternative options here to [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]] assistance to individual critical groups and families, in order to make these funds significantly more effective? Above all, we expect the government to do much more on the housing supply side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Weber to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with his coworkers and coworkers! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, of course, we welcome the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act. At the same time, we note that the proposal before us is unambitious and constitutes the beginning of the end of the national housing savings scheme, as it is a matter of diminishing the interest of the savers. And the banks were never so excited about the scheme. A quick review of the law indicates that the law changes interest rates on both the savings and the lending side. Determines the purpose of the use of funds for housing purposes only. It changes premiums that belong to the saver. And even more critical, if I may say so, in these bonuses it is that they actually fall apart from what the savers were able to receive under the present law. The applicant reduces the premiums from one twelfth to one quarter of the annual payments. The whole new proposal introduces subsidisation for young families that for the first time solve their housing issue, which is not related at all to the housing savings scheme. So the Social Democrats do not agree with the reduction of the premiums from one twelfth to one quarter of the annual payments, and we consider the subsidies to young families to be too modest. After all, the three-member family receives a subsidy in four years around EUR 2,300, which is not for a square metre of apartment in Ljubljana. We are therefore of the opinion that, if we really want to help young families and encourage other savers, there is a need to adopt a much more ambitious law on the national housing savings scheme. That is why we have also tabled amendments that maintain premiums of one twelfth annual payments. This is also somehow in line with the purpose of the law. However, it is stated by the applicant that the aim of the law is to increase the competitiveness of savings in the national housing scheme. The austerity scheme itself must encourage people to save and consequently solve their housing and living problems. We therefore propose, of course, that the premiums intended for savers should not be reduced. The second amendment concerns subsidies which are new to this law. As I said in the introduction, we find these subsidies to be too modest. If we really want to help young families who for the first time are solving a housing problem. The fact that the government is proposing 160 euros in the first four, and we are raising these 160 euros to 500 euros in the first four years. In the next four years, we are raising the amount proposed by the government from EUR 100 to EUR 500. Thus, the three-member family would receive, for example, eight years of a subsidy of EUR 9,600, which would allow for the purchase of about 5 to 6 square metres of one-bedroom apartment in Ljubljana. The government's proposal would allow all purchases of one square metre. We are aware of the need to provide additional funds for this purpose. At the same time, however, we note that the proposaler himself has acknowledged that he has foreseen too little in the budget for the solutions he is proposing. That is why we see a solution in the government's examination of the law on budget implementation and the provisions allowing the reallocation of funds, and, of course, then the 2006 budget rebalancing, which would be more favourable to the resolution of the housing problem. The lack of housing resources in the 2006-2007 budget has also been alerted to the adoption of the budget in the Social Democrats Group. Unfortunately, however, our amendments were not accepted. So that if we add to these slightly weaker indicators for the introduction of a national housing savings scheme the fact that banks will decide for themselves how they will give and for what purpose mortgage and utility bonds may be for housing purposes, perhaps not if these are more favourable, we can say that this proposed law is truly too ambitious to keep the national housing savings scheme in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Koren, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	Have a good day to all present in this hall. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party we support amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act. In particular, we are pleased to add subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the national housing scheme law changes the original design of the general savings scheme to a dedicated scheme, a savings housing scheme. The experience of the first two schemes shows that the scheme is a good savings product. However, further incentives are needed to guide savings to targeted housing consumption. This is determined by a new definition of the premium to which savings are eligible, which are deliberately used for statutory purposes, rental or leasing. The introduction of subsidies for young families, which for the first time solve their housing issue, is also important in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group. It is clear from the amendment of the title of the law that this is a novelty, which also promises to have an impact on the resolution of one of Slovenia's key strategic issues, this is a major demographic increase. In the New Slovenia programme, we pay a lot of attention to this problem of demographics, young families, families with multiple children. Last night we were able to follow the talk in Odměch about the issue of our Slovenian birth. Slovenia is on the tail of European countries with regard to births. Calculations of current trends have shown that in 2040 we would be only a million and 600 thousand more, and every fourth person would be over 60. That's really scary data. I think we should also follow some European countries that have managed to change this general trend, such as France. In addition to the income criterion, at least one child who is not yet compulsory is provided by the young family. The acquisition of the subsidy is not linked to saving in the national housing savings scheme, but is justified by any young family who for the first time solves the housing issue by law or construction. The changed banking market situation requires the abolition of revalorisation. The government interest rates shall be fixed for a period of one year, depending on the market return of the Republic of Slovenia bonds. Any derogations shall be determined twice a year and, according to the law, the criteria laid down shall be duly aligned with the decision of the Government, both on the savings and on the lending side. The proposed novelty is more favourable to savers as the deadline for spending savings is extended from one to two years. The savings period shall be acceptable within at least five years and not more than ten years. And up to 30% of the savings can be paid by law for certain purposes in cash. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, by supporting changes and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, we actively approach the amendment of legislation in which families with children have been discriminated against compared to couples without children. By supporting changes and supplementing the National Housing Savings Act, we provide more favourable conditions for the development of families and young families, and we encourage them to solve the housing issue on their own. In this context, the support of the New Slovenia Group has been given both to amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act and to other efforts to resolve the housing issue of young families such as the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The National Savings Scheme Act was adopted in 2000, i.e. five years ago. At that time, the situation in many areas has changed considerably. Let me just mention the changes in banking and housing. All these changes suggest the need to amend the National Housing Scheme Act. In addition, the law now in force contains some provisions that have not proved to be the best in practice. The bill thus makes quite a few changes, including the purpose of spending savings or premiums. It changes interest rates and brings about a significant change. These are subsidies to young families for the first solution to the housing problem. The latest news is important and welcome for young families, although such an important and expensive investment is only for symbolic help. However, this novelty is the first step, which is still important. We believe that it is also extremely important to determine the intended use of the premiums that are received by the savers under the national scheme. Purposeful spending is crucial to achieving the basic objective of this law and, of course, we fully support it. The adjustment of interest rates will also help to make the savings scheme more usable. At the time of consideration of this law, we would like to point out that there is an urgent need to consider other measures that will make it easier for young families to resolve the housing problem. Yesterday we discussed the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, which is also supposed to have some positive effects on housing investments. In particular, an integrated approach and the participation of all competent ministries in addressing this pressing issue is important. Only such an approach will enable the desired objectives to be achieved. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. However, we also expect further steps to be taken to improve the resolution of the housing problem in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Peče, Vice-President, has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	Your Honor, Vice President Pavlich. Approximately the same beautiful, well - sounding words took place behind this booth when the National Assembly adopted the first national savings scheme. About this way, the then government spoke about how this is urgently necessary, how we will provide the necessary housing, how we will enable young families, all those who otherwise cannot solve their housing problems. In short, about as beautiful a word as Minister Podobnik used today were then. In August 2004, when the interpellation was against the government, this was one of the main features of the current government: Why, according to the local word, did it carry out this political strain on those citizens who decided to join this form of savings, which it proved to have only contributed to banking in the final stage? Most of the participants in the first austerity scheme drew much shorter. Today, we have heard from the Minister in the introduction of the change in this austerity scheme, why this time the housing savings scheme is better than the previous one. But if we look at last year's events, we see that the National Assembly has accepted taxation of savings. We know that the National Assembly, on the proposal of this government, has decided to tax people in banks. Today, the government of the Republic of Slovenia comes before us with a new idea of inviting people to save; how pleasant it is, how good it is, how positive it is. But, of course, the minister does not say what his government has said, and unfortunately this National Assembly has confirmed that we will tax this savings on some level. But that height is within or within the meaning of this purpose of saving. So we are not talking about savings of 100, 150 thousand, but because it is buying or acquiring property in higher amounts, all those involved will fall into new taxation and the country will also tax them in this way. On the basis of this scenario, if it were a sighting, I could say that the government is trying, through this proposal, to obtain new tax revenues by means of a law on amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act. Many people will decide on this matter, despite the fact that in the first such scheme under way in the past government, most of them have not received what they were promised or almost no one has received what was fully provided by this national assembly. In short, the first housing savings scheme turned out to be negative. This was also acknowledged by the current government, as is evident from the Magnographic Record of the State Assembly in August 2004. Now the government said, yes, it's the first scheme, we made some mistakes, we apologize to people, to all those who have already invested small savings in this kind of savings, but we hope that someday it will be better. Of course, that was not discussed later. According to an assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, this is also the case for such resolution or for the exclusive acquisition of funds for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be an illusion to expect that this austerity scheme, or the content following that law, would contribute to what the minister said in his very kind, ear - friendly speech. According to our assessment, the country should approach three measures if it really has a tendency to make or bring the apartments closer to those in need. Firstly, simplification of building permit through administrative units, reduction of municipal contributions, reduction of location documentation, reduction of administrative fees. In short, there are a lot of instruments in which the state could in a very simple way allow for a very fast way for all those who now cannot because of the unopened real estate market to get what they want. According to our assessment, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions is also misleading and is to the detriment of the people who will decide on it. But they won't know it until they're years from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you. And Mr. Yelen, on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! The law, as a whole, is supported by our Democratic Party of Pensioners. This in its conviction that the current government is more acutely listening to the first resolution of the housing issue, to change the conditions for the acquisition of premiums and interest rates on the savings and lending side. We are talking about the interest the banks see, as well as the savers for good future cooperation. However, we feel that the law has so far achieved its purpose. It is noted, however, that the situation to date has changed considerably, as we believe in our parliamentary group, that the law really needs correction. This, in particular, is at those points that can lead to too slow, sure-fired things. In general, interest has become too expensive for savers, and interest on later loans has reached the rate provided by the national savings scheme in commercial banks. In addition to the new housing savings scheme, we would like to draw attention in particular to the sharing of total financial returns, the rebalancing and interest, the fixed fixed interest rate for long periods, the raising of the price for banks in the event of repayment of premiums, the large-scale interest rate and the projected shifts to the new currency in the middle of current loans. We have also observed more acute conditions for saving than for repayment of credits. It is also the intention of spending saved money and the inadmissibility of saving. The possibility of five or ten-year savings has also changed in at least five to a maximum of ten years, which will in the future represent the success of lending and reduce the possibility of a year of concentrated demand and thus a significant increase in housing prices. The law will thus allow for the implementation of the national housing scheme under comparable conditions and ensure the possibility of adapting to financial market changes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Please, a little more listening in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	We are pleased, however, that the proposer of this new proposed law has defined the principles and reductions in the number of months per year in its amendments. There is no longer such a strict provision on compulsory payments, which speaks of a sufficient amount if the savings agent makes at least 10 savings in a year. We support a proposal in which young families will receive €160 cash assistance per person per year in accordance with the law through subsidisation. The next four years after 100 euros. The calculation shows that the young four-member family will receive 4,160 euros in state aid. That is why we also see the point of saving for this purpose. In the Democratic Party of Retired Persons Group, we also support the adopted amendments of the parent's working body, and in particular the revised supplements on subsidies for young families, on the first resolution of the housing problem. In addition, after the adoption of the Law, a savings scheme from a general to a purposeful one will be able to pass. We are following in the DeSUS Group of Members that the envisaged amendment of the law makes sense because we see in the envisaged legislation the assistance and willingness of the state and the government to resolve the problem that plagues our country's young families more quickly. We will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 31.1.2006. You've been given an examination. We have two articles. First, I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber, then perhaps Mr. Minister. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. With an amendment to 16. We would like to keep the premiums of one twelfth payments throughout the year, as the applicant proposes that these premiums be reduced by 50%. So it is one twenty-four payments, which will largely reduce the interest of savers to even join the national housing savings scheme. This is, of course, contrary to the objective set by the applicant, to try to encourage savers to join this national housing savings scheme and to try, of course, to solve their housing problem in this way. Without maintaining what is already enshrined in the law, the interest of the savers will be significantly lower. I really wonder: Does it make sense to reduce the interest of savers, because the interest on the part of banks is already so and so extremely minimal that they participate in this national housing savings scheme at all? In addition, the situation will worsen further the municipal, mortgage bonds that banks will issue entirely in line with their business interests and will not, of course, take account of what we want in the country and what we do not want in the country. If we really want to solve the housing problem, this can be very clearly achieved in this law. In other cases, especially in the case of utility and mortgage bonds, the State did not wish to have this effect and did not foresee it in the law in such a way that, of course, it provided conditions for banks to issue mortgage bonds for housing construction and, of course, to the extent that the others concerned could then be involved in this savings. Without the adoption of this amendment, I am also convinced that the housing savings scheme is shutting down due to these arguments, because if there is no interest in savers, if there is no interest in banks, then of course we cannot expect this austerity scheme to remain in place and that today we have adopted something that would lead to housing problems being solved by this savings. The resources needed to do so, however, are, in my view, sufficient within the overall budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Although I would point out that we have tabled an amendment to the budget, with which we wanted to provide more resources for housing, precisely because it would be easier to exercise these interests. The proposer rejected this by expecting that even if this amendment was adopted, the government would have the possibility to cover all the obligations that would also arise from this title, both in the budget balance for 2006. We are concerned, however, because it is only a fact that at this stage the applicant has foreseen too little resources for the implementation of the current housing scheme and sees a solution in the housing fund, which, of course, from its sources, would then make this difference or ensure this difference. A few, I will say, inappropriate approaches if we want to follow the lease of a housing fund that wants to build an enormous number of apartments in the coming years. I think it's been published even 2,000 apartments a year. If the housing fund wants to implement this forecast, it will certainly be very difficult to allocate the premiums so that it also goes within the department to obviously uncoordinated planning, to solve the housing problem. However, as I said, if we decide to resolve in Parliament, then the government also has the opportunity to monitor this in the law on budget implementation and, of course, in the budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me first to thank you for your substantive debate under the law itself. If I understand correctly, despite some concerns about support for the proposed law. The articles and the amendment we are talking about are, in a way, one of the key articles. He's talking about equipment. This article is also an opportunity to say honestly that earlier it was said that I had enjoyed the performance. I've had a very real performance. I analysed the current scheme, positive and negative experiences and, based only on these on both sides, on the side of the savers and those who were lending, that is, the bank, told which solutions we are proposing. I'd like you even more if you could be. I was mostly real. It is true, however, that it was a professional question whether to go into a change of law at all and propose an extension of the housing savings scheme. I have to be honest with you here. The expert opinions of the Ministry and some other circles were also not fully aligned. We talked a lot about these issues and finally came up with a proposal to amend this law, and, of course, we are going in a way that will encourage savers to rejoin the scheme. You have to understand that I'm here as a minister, mostly on the side of the savers. But I'm aware that without the banks there will be no way to take the deal. According to the data we have, the Slovenian banking area is currently relatively full of capital. And we can expect banks to respond to this scheme. Not only because they have savers who, in a dynamic period of life, when planning a family, buy an apartment, they can be excellent commentants for decades ahead, but also because they will be able to distribute their funds to the banks in this way. As far as the dilemma raised by Mr Member in the field is concerned, those who would lend. Now the question, then, on the essential question. In our opinion, the government responded. The government understands the positive intent of proposing. There's no doubt about that. If we were to accept your solution to be a bonus as before, then we must admit that in this classical financial sense this could mean some kind of imbalance in the financial market. This means that the interest rate would increase even more than 6% of the annual interest rate. To go to a new space covered by mutual funds and other institutions in Slovenia. But that's an argument that's not the key. There are other arguments. One of these is that there are other ingredients. We have recalculated according to the revised scheme, if we put it all together, the yield will actually be the same and will be comparable to the current scheme. We've calculated in detail interest on savings, plus interest on loans, plus premiums. Profitability would be almost the same. Here I do not mention the fact that this is a dedicated austerity scheme and that, of course, I also have an element of subsidies. No subsidies. So this is an additional argument which speaks of the fact that this proposal cannot be supported by the government. And now I'm going to come up with an argument that's somehow the most problematic for the minister, but it's real. Budget options. We weren't working on it. We have all the budget items calculated. With the next amendment, I will also tell you how much we expect for subsidies, how many families we expect to be included in the subsidy scheme. But when we went to look at premiums for old savers, premiums for new savers, plus subsidies and by 2012, this is the next period, at global level, the budgetary resource for this area will increase from the country's point of view, and it will not decrease. I also have accurate calculations after years, if you're interested, I can tell you. So, despite the good intentions of the proposer, the government cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. And now I'm going to give Mr. Potts and then Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your kind assessment of the proposal. It is true that our desire to assess the conditions that the current austerity scheme has provided for the savers with a new one has been to determine whether it is a deterioration or not and whether this deterioration will potentially have a disstimulating impact on the integration of potential savers into the savings housing scheme. I guess you don't have to talk about the fact that we need apartments. Especially not that they need young families who are formed and who are seeking employment for the first time. You've probably noticed, Mr. Minister, that we considered some of the changes you've made to the law useful. For the first time, the fact that they receive benefits or bonuses is that they save for housing, not for anyone who saves. This is a beneficial change. I think that it is also a fair change and that in this part we have probably given some, including an over-conscious impulse in this direction, which directed the funds, not only to housing savings, but also to somewhere else, with the ratings of the country, which is not, say, necessarily necessary. And secondly, you've given some more flexible savings manual scheme, which is fine. We believe, however, that it would be useful to think again or, in what way, you claim that the ratings that the savers will have, despite the fact that the refund is reduced, will increase by half. Because I don't understand. I believe that banks will be able to have this interest in terms of available funds. What makes you think that if you were stimulated by a twelve, not a twenty-four, then you'd have moved on to another one, I'd say, spheres, you mentioned mutual funds, I have to admit, I don't understand why? Because then it is a completely different interest and other thinking. Then I can invest, if you give me the effects, although they are not necessarily the same, but they can be higher, where lower, depending on how happy I have in directing my money into any of the mutual funds. I might as well lose. But it's really just, it's something else, it's not purposely saving. This is another way of being taxed. I don't think this comparison holds up completely. In short, I would appreciate it if you could explain something, because at the end, if there are no concrete data that really proves that stimulation with many solutions will be better, then we say that stimulation has weakened slightly. And then it must be said where, why, and whether the state is counting, that this reduced stimulation will continue to be of sufficient interest to ensure, within the framework of the available options, the integration of people for savings through the housing savings scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber. Then it's Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. With regard to the Minister's belief that the austerity scheme will remain interesting, I would point out, however, that a letter to the National Assembly was also received by the Association of Banks of Slovenia, pointing out that the banks are not prepared to refund the premiums and that this is also somehow a condition for their continued participation in the national housing savings schemes. So it is, however, a very clear interest of banks. On the other hand, in your written opinion, you have also stated that maintaining one twelfth of the premiums paid annually increases the return on savings under the scheme to a very high level. This, I think, is what would certainly greatly increase the interest in savers in deciding to save in the national housing savings scheme. Is 6% too much or too little? Last but not least, if we remember the discussions on taxation of savings in denationalisation beneficiaries, where they also have a 6% interest rate, this was fully determined, I would say, normally, acceptable. In short, there is some imbalance in the capital market, which is legal and not problematic. I don't know why there would be such a problem that other savers who are solving their housing problem, who are often forced to do so, even because many apartments have been returned in the process of denationalisation and are now in extremely difficult circumstances and looking for their solutions. That is why I think it would be reasonable and necessary for these twelve to be preserved and that many who have not had the opportunity to solve the housing problem under the housing law, like all those who have not lived in the facilities that have returned in the process of denationalisation, to be able to do so. One piece to solve this problem is certainly such a way. So I think this change is real, for the first time, life, for the second time, such that it keeps the savings scheme. Thirdly, since, last but not least, the promotion of housing also has an extremely positive impact on the budget, as housing is fostering economic growth. However, this economic growth is also crucial for creating the level of budgets. So that also this investment in apartments through premiums will definitely return to the budget, indeed with a few years delay - in this case it is a delay of five years, then these schemes begin to unfold. However, this is still a significant short-term or medium-term impact on the budget, which is considered and approached in a way that stimulates this savings and is able to approach the construction of as many apartments as possible and thus to economic growth in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman first, and then you, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying that I'm one of those people who we've been saving in a savings scheme, and we've been spending money on purpose. My assessment is that the austerity scheme has been beneficial to us. If I understand the Minister correctly, this new one won't get worse. And if that's the case, then I don't see any special reason why we should be adding any special ratings yet. However, according to the documents of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, programme 5.8 states that the situation in the area of housing is difficult to reach critical. It is said that something really needs to be done if these assessments are correct. And for that reason, it appears to support this new austerity scheme. It is also because it estimates that it will stimulate savings, that more construction will be done, that the value of construction will be, and so on. But this has some weakness in my judgment, because this is a market building. This is about building that people are going to buy. And we have, as far as I know, some three-quarters of the housing fund is already privately owned by us. And what we need are non-profit rental apartments. I therefore feel that it would be significantly better if more involvement was in this area so that these problems could be resolved more quickly. I'm a little uncomfortable with ratings and amendments. I understand them that way, even though I think they're really kind. But I understand that they belong more to social categories than to housing. And that all these ratings could be so high that they could even be a disorder. We must include at least what we have adopted with the Income Act, where we have additional relief for all those who first resolve the housing issue. I do not see the need for us now to dramatically raise the credit ratings of visas to those which were granted in the first two austerity schemes. But it seems to me that we should be careful also of the will of this, because this may have been discriminatory for you. Today it has already been said about square meters, how much a square meter costs in Ljubljana and how many subsidies or how many premiums someone will get and how many square meters will be able to buy. Where else, if we put all this together, in some other environment, a two-bedroom apartment could almost be paid by what we get from the state budget, not for rental apartments, but for apartments that are intended for the market. I don't think that would be so good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Now Mrs. Pecanova, then the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. So the amendment to Article 16 does not actually increase the rights of those who enter the housing savings scheme but reduces them, but the basic article reduces them. So we're going back to the previous level. So we can't talk about the premium to increase the savings ratings with this amendment in relation to those savers who stepped into the first and second housing savings scheme. We're just suggesting we go back to the previous level. The other thing I would say is absurd, which will happen in 2008. 1.1.2008 The value added tax will also be 20% for dwellings. And as far as I am aware, in the negotiations in which Slovenia also enters, on the initiative of Austria and Germany to remain in the same composition, exceptions to the reduced tax rate are a big question if we are able to maintain a reduced tax rate in housing to 8.5%. So theoretically, because it is theoretically today, because nothing knows what will happen to VAT on the sale of apartments. If our transitional period ends with this, then the country will get 11.5% of the points at each square meter of the apartment, percentage points of additional resources in the budget. What's she gonna do with that money? Logically, at least part of this money would have to be reproduced in the construction of apartments, especially dwellings for young families. And here I think that the housing savings scheme is one of the tools that forces it, because the fact is that the combination of building apartments that are directed or managed by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and also by the municipalities, because now some municipalities have woken up and will start by the same procedure as the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to build apartments and sell them at a non-profit price. Thus, if the profit price is 2,200 euros per square metre, the municipality will sell apartments after 1,250 euros per square metre in that environment, as is the work of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is important to know that they are talking about how the ratings of those who are included in the housing savings scheme are accumulated, or how they are accumulated because they receive a subsidy in the purchase of an apartment, which is as calculated - well, this will be discussed in the next article - which amounts to a ridiculous one or two square metres of one apartment, and in doing so we think how much money will flow from the sale of all apartments in the state budget when the tax rate increases, then, please, it is still necessary to put all the cards on the table and say: whether we have an interest in providing apartments to young families - I think, of course, that young families are also those who first buy the apartment because they have waited for decades to collect enough money - so that they have a certain rating when buying the first apartment. I would like to remind you that when we talked about the Income Act, that the calculation was made, how much this reduction in the tax base for the income tax on the first apartment purchase account instead of the ridiculous 4% to 10%, actually costs the state budget, how many of the first apartments in Slovenia are actually sold. This is the basic problem that needs to be addressed. I wonder if there's even any data on how many apartments people buy for the first time, as the first property in this country, annually. And then there would be the right information to calculate how much the state budget and the banking system will be shaken because there will be credits and because the savings scheme will bring some credit to these savers. That's it. I think we really need to think about this, not just by thinking about it and talking about it, but by coming up with numbers. Unfortunately, only the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has the numbers. And this one, I don't know if it's accurate enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer some questions. Most likely I will not be able to do everything because some are very connected to the financial dimension, but some are related to housing problems in the Republic of Slovenia, which is a very important topic; perhaps they could have touched it more in detail in the national assembly or in the working body. Regarding your question - we expected someone to ask that - how much data we have [[Although it would probably be the best place for this statistical institute]] , on average in Slovenia per year of built dwellings where the housing issue is first resolved. According to our data, it's 6,000, of which 4,500 are usually in private arrangements, and the rest are through other mechanisms. With the great dynamism that has taken place in the last period of the housing fund, this number will increase, especially through the housing fund, in cooperation with the municipalities, in the coming years. I'm a real optimist here. Of course, where there is a private arrangement in construction, the tax consequences are different for those who have invested smaller, better to say this dimension. Now the question I have been asked is once again about this product. In a sense, this is a product that we offer through law to Slovenian citizens and citizens who for the first time solve their housing issue and want to save on purpose. It's some kind of financial product. What were the elements of the proposal 1/24? We cannot multiply two times here because there are fundamental interest rates and different inflation conditions. It changes a little bit, it's not two or divided by two. He's in the middle of something. High safety of this product. It's definitely a yes. But it's a relatively high yield. We've calculated it to be 4.9%. Tell me, write me financial products in Slovenia where you have a 4.9% return. It is not small for the current situation in the Republic of Slovenia. This will be absolutely inviting for the savers. Better than the bank, absolutely. We also have information that if you receive a loan with a maturity of ten years after the new austerity scheme, the interest rate is 4.1%. It's higher in banks. This will be an invitation for the savers. Now there's a question about ratings. I wasn't talking about accumulation of ratings, there's gonna be a misunderstanding. The ratings are always an instrument through which the country deliberately enters an area and decides. Each rating has its own consequences, but it has its own reasons. Here it is necessary to say that they already had and will have the advantage of saving from the National Housing Savings Scheme in the tendering of the Housing Fund. That doesn't matter. 97% so far, all those through whom the fund, when it entered the Slovenian housing market as an investor, were savings from the scheme. And, of course, another area is the price of housing, which touches on a very sensitive issue. This is not a prudentity, but it is a real fact that those savers from the scheme who are first lucky and then the real possibility that they will get to the apartment through the housing fund will come at more favourable prices than they would have come elsewhere. This financial anchor is due to previous years. It is an extremely important rating that will be obtained by savers both in Ljubljana or especially in Ljubljana and its surroundings, on the coast or in Gorenjska, where prices are highest. As we go wider in Slovenia, this imbalance decreases slightly. So these aren't ratings that are classic ratings, but they're some real fact. So these are the three reasons that I've listed, on the basis of which we're calculating, we haven't suggested these numbers. We've calculated what this real return is and we've come to this number 1/24. However, it must also be said that if we had more budgetary options than they were, this number might be slightly different. And now another piece of data that's tied to financial dynamics after years. Let me get that information, too. Here, however, after years we have an existing national housing savings scheme and their premiums, then payment of premiums for new ones, according to our assumption, plus subsidies. For example, in 2005, it was a billion 568 million, this year it was a billion 700, next year it was a billion 900, for example, 2010 it was already 2 billion 700, so the trend is growing in global government budget money for these purposes. And since this is a dedicated austerity scheme, the number of savers will be smaller. But you will already have a better profit because we expect young families to be more actively involved, but they will receive more subsidies. Therefore, I think that this common product, despite some of your legitimate concerns, will be positive and will hinder savers from applying.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Just a quick question, Mr. Secretary. You didn't say anything, did you even think about what would happen when 11 and a half percent of the tax rate on housing sales was increased?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Yes, Vice President, that's one of the questions related to the date. This is likely to be the date 31.12.2007 or 1.1.2008. The matter of interpretation is also important because it is a year when this happens. That's a sensitive question. It is also linked to the area of tourism, which is also not known for a transitional period of the same date, which is drying up this transitional period. That'll be one of the orders. The instruments I have as Minister are, of course, through the Housing Fund. We will be able to propose some activities there. Alternatively, financial benefit instruments will be provided through a colleague of Dr. Bayuk. On your particular question to answer you now what measures we are going to propose, I have no answer. If we succeed with the elements of land policy, active land policy, through which we will achieve that we will also arrive earlier at municipally equipped land on which we will build, through the housing fund or partnership with municipalities, as well as private investors, such non-profit rental apartments or apartments for the market, more lower the price of dwellings than would increase the price at an increased VAT rate if it were to pay from 1.1.2008. This is also one of these in the context of European Commission discussions. This will also affect some other countries, not just Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you. The price of dwellings is certainly very important when we talk about how we will solve the problem. However, this is a direction to provide land, municipally equipped land for the construction of one of the equally important issues. And I cannot admit that what we can see in the media in the last period is that the state should fully preserve primate over land owned by the state and by the management of the fund, a unilateral solution. Without including municipalities here, like those that will co-create this land policy to a greater extent than they are allowed to manage the fund today, this objective will certainly not be achieved. In fact, if this transformation takes place, it can happen in a very short time that the housing fund will actually start to act as a capital fund and not as much as those that would save a social category. This task of the social category is entrusted to municipalities, local communities. They're supposed to provide housing for the weakest. Therefore, in this consideration, I am already reminding you that the transfer of the management of these land from the agricultural fund to the housing fund alone is not an appropriate solution and that it will be necessary to analyse in detail in the meantime, and how, in fact, to allow the municipalities to reach the additional land that is now owned by the country. Because, after all, it is the congregation that makes these lands communal, that is, some added value of this land is created by the congregation and not by the housing fund. So that there are quite some open questions, I agree that we will have to define them so that we can talk about building two thousand apartments in Slovenia as the real director of the housing fund. Some things will really have to be changed and directed at this dynamic. It is likely that we will do much for the applicants or the search engines.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, Master Starman, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I would only like to talk about land policy because it opened up about the role of the municipalities. Far from the fact that a regulation or the concept of transfer of land suitable for housing or industrial construction would be State-owned in any way in conflict with the interests of the municipalities. Far from it. On the contrary. No construction is possible without the spatial arrangements provided by the congregation. Here it is always a combination of land owned by the state and municipal regulation of fully urbanised land. Without this partnership, active land policy cannot under any circumstances have the effect that we want to achieve. Above all, the aim is to transfer land to a housing fund or to manage it in this broad sense, which also enables the construction and in some way the integration of all these land, in particular in the interest of the municipalities. There's even a possibility of transmissions. This is one of the concepts on which we build. Later, when he comes from a housing fund in partnership with the congregations. There are no conflicting interests here. For example, the farm fund should have already transferred to the congregation and, after the law in force, it must certainly do so. That regulation, which is currently under discussion in government, only resolves organisational relations between certain national authorities, i.e. between the Agricultural Fund and the Housing Fund, and in no way affects the interests of the municipalities. On the contrary, as I say, we could be effective in the area of housing, I think in the field of land policy, partnership with the municipalities, as you said, is absolutely a prerequisite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Let me say that the regulation, which has been prepared and adopted, speaks somewhat differently and is likely to experience animosity in Parliament. I am allowed to talk about this, including because I was, before the coalition treaty was signed, the proposer of the creation of common land funds. I explained this to the Minister before he had a hearing, even as a candidate for a minister. It now assumes that this is state property, not only from the agricultural land and forests fund, but also I suppose it belongs to DSU, railway and so on. This can't just go in one block to the country. The only real solution to my judgment would be, if, and I had suggested on one of the committees, the state had drawn up a record of what it had, and forwarded it to the municipalities, asking them in what areas programmes or projects were prepared. This should be transferred, i.e. to those who already have the projects ready, but not to Bianca's credit card, some state fund. If the congregations say so, we do not have the appropriate programs there, okay, it goes to the one who has the program. In this sense, I think it would be safe to redefine this regulation in such a way that those who really know the land in which they know what the environment is, what municipal or regional programmes are envisaged there, including this possibility of an active impact on this land policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I did not intend to comment specifically on this amendment. I have to say, I'm not sure if he can be supported. Indeed, even after the calculations made by the government, and we have looked at it a little bit, it does not seem that this replacement of one twelfth is likely to be so large that the banks or they may go to the competition office and attack this "favourable". Nothing's good enough, I agree. The question is, if I were to stay. It must be so favourable that the banks force them to be even more favourable or equally favourable. And I don't know if it's any different. I don't have these instruments at my disposal and I can't count on it myself, I have to admit, this is about this. In short, for the time being, I would say, to a certain extent, I would buy an argument from the government, in which it is not entirely clear to me whether the scheme will still remain in a large, important argument, that is, an instrument or, in fact, as I have predicted, which I think will be more that this is the beginning of the end. And finally, as I said, maybe this isn't bad, because that means the state doesn't need any more money in case housing arrangements are favourable to commercial banks. As we can see, they've been quite favorable lately. As for other questions, I would say in particular what was said. My opinion is that this National Assembly, in particular the Committee on the Environment and Space, needs a thorough debate on housing policy. I don't know if you're preparing a house document to discuss this or not. The debate is, of course, mainly about the offer position, it is not questionable. This one's pretty good right now. I'd only say two words here because it really doesn't have anything to do with this topic. First time. Indeed, housing policy must be seen in the context of urban policy and migration policy, and within this, of course, also through this land policy instrument. I doubt there could be such a centralized way as was presented, and I've seen him solve anything. In my view, we need to go more precisely and more delicately. But above all, I would have warned you. The list tells you that the apartments in Slovenia are enough. Of course they're not all quality. The problem with these apartments is that they're where people don't want to live, and that housing will always be too small where people want to live. It is not possible to solve the housing problem in large cities such as Ljubljana, such as Maribor, such as Celje, such as Nova Gorica, such as the coast and probably New Town. There'll always be too few apartments there. Paradoxically, the more you build them, the more opportunities there will be, the more people will settle in this city, and they will need an apartment and you will build more. In 10 years, you'll only have four urban centers. This is a possible policy, which is why the immigration policy is an alpha and an omega housing policy. Until you see it, everything will be wrong with our policy. I therefore propose that we have such a debate on the Committee on the Environment to bind it to some strong housing law because it is too legal. These are other stories to tie them to some, I don't know whether to rebuild or anything or to some starting point that the Ministry can prepare and that we can also do this in cooperation with a professional in Slovenia, which is quite a bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. No, no, no. Then I give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Just for a little while. Mr Petan and I agreed that, on his proposal, I immediately responded positively, we would hold such a debate on the committee in the coming months. I'm very excited as a minister. With my team, I'll prepare some good material. We've got some good material ready. If we get any focus, this debate is also one of the directions, and we will be able to produce very good material and this will be a very good debate on the committee itself. That's all I'd explain. The regulation referred to by Mr Rezman has not yet been adopted. Not accepted. It's time to think this through. Your fears are unjustifiable. We're not going this way as you thought. We'll be very careful about this procedure, I assure you. But this is one of the active policies of the ministry and the courage of the minister. The ministers of the past did not have this courage. And I have it, and I have political support in government to do it, but also in agreement and dialogue with the congregations, but you are a partner here. This is in your interest to happen. It is not against the congregations, it is basically for the congregations. It is not our ambition to have four larger urban centres in Slovenia, absolutely not. But that'll be the topic of a committee discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! So in this debate, whether the real one is twelve or twenty-four or thirty-six or something else, I think it can fade completely. It's already been shown in the past. If we don't have land to build apartments, and I think that I fully agree and support you with those who have been discussed in the direction of the land. I might just say one more thing about that. I agree that the approach must be comprehensive, of course, because with the early decrees "ad hoc" is not going. We've seen this before, I think, in 1991, when we had to write down all the municipal lands, it went into some kind of fund. It is necessary to prepare and likely to require good cooperation with local communities as well as the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture. What we're saying right now, and what I'm about to say, I'm not speaking clearly, but I have experience with my own environment. In fact, the agricultural land fund is what it is like if housing were already included here in any form, I will only use this term so that I will not be able to explain for a long time the institution, which are all connected here then I could not get to all of these, if I may say, "unnecessary affairs". After all, it doesn't matter who was there. Either someone's got something or someone's got nothing. The fact is, the land's gone somewhere. And that's the point. That seems a shame to me. If cooperation had been here by now, we would not have had these problems. But they went to irreparable land. Or someone else will serve at the expense of these lands. I didn't say it by accident from around me. There is a case where practically 10 hectares of land went somewhere completely into irreversible and probably there will be a building. Just as different as national interest. I am pleased to hear from the Minister that something is about to begin to move here as well. If some have fears that the fund or the ministry or anyone for housing would be involved, that it would not be good for them. And I'm saying I should, and I'm saying I should, and I'm gonna say it. If that doesn't happen, it's gonna be a shame. Of course, I agree, not on the chorus, not just with certain decrees, but to prepare, including with local communities, to then identify and automatically decommit any speculation and possible land transactions that may occur internally. So I think we have to build from here on out. We now have an agricultural land fund that will play its part slowly. But because what is good from this fund would not be good to throw away and build on it and come into that sphere of housing, building houses on which a lot of people build their perspective, and I don't know, their expectations for the pre-generations as well. So at these coefficients, I don't think that's the main point. The main thing is that there is some order here that does not come to - perhaps I will use an inappropriate term - cartel integration, but it has its purely specific interests, not one that would be a national interest. And I think that this includes what we have already said several times - and I will not miss anything on the subject - namely, what was also presented yesterday, the birth rate in Slovenia. Actually, if you don't have an apartment, then it's gonna be hard for some young family to settle down and have kids. So it's a broader issue, not just that apartment, but we build so many, and there's going to be industry that's going to earn something, but there's a lot of other things that's also a national interest. And I think that all of this has to be linked together. I can also confirm that we will probably discuss this on the Committee on the Environment and the Space I run, and we will probably also discuss these principles. By dealing with the matter in a complex way and also solving it in a complex way, not just by addressing it and talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, you only have half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. I'll tell you for a minute. The regulation we are talking about does not mention the municipalities, and in this respect it does not favour them. The regulation must be such as to take into account the location and other plans that we already have in place on certain sites. But it's not like she's going to support this right now, so to speak, that she's going to take over, which she has projects in local communities. That was my warning. And since this is not in the regulation right now, we are simply reminding this to change.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	First of all, I would just like to say to Mr Gantar that when we talk about twelve or twenty-four or smaller "-inahs", it is necessary to know that such a system of subsidised interest rates, because it is in some way also common in our country, that we have, say, ecological loans where EURIBOR + 1 or even EURIBOR + half, which means in some way, it seems to be competition for banks. It's just a larifari for me. When a State decides that it is in the public interest to subsidise, anything for me to sterilise cats, it means that it is in the public interest, and the banks have nothing to complain about because it is supposed to be unfair competition. The second thing I would just say is that this regulation, by the way, speaks about the transfer of land owned by the state, which is written as the property of a certain source, whether it is, say, a military or hospital in Isola, by the way, or someone else, to the housing fund - it is said, from the state to the country; there is nothing formal here. However, the congregation has so much to ask me that I am very interested, Mr. Minister, in how you will manage the appetites of some people who prevent any housing construction on the land they smell. It's within your ministry and within the neighbouring ministry. Please, if you succeed, Mr. Pirtz, Mr. Minister, Mr. Starman, well done! I'm on your side, and I'm here to help you right now, even if you have to, with what boards to demonstrate there. You know what I'm talking about; others don't have to understand it. And for this reason, I just want to say that I wish you good luck in implementing this regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Mr Minister, with cooperation and with our co-workers, the item on the agenda to complement the draft law on amendments and additions to the law of the National Housing Savings Scheme deals with the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 16. Now we've been listening to land and agriculture, and I don't know what all the policies are. I'd like to define myself around the amendment itself. I think that some debaters, or at least one, I don't think he's ever saved. Almost doesn't even know what this austerity scheme means. I help both children save on this austerity scheme. And if we take the first, second, I think three have gone by now. The first was certainly the most favourable, the second was also, I know the cases specifically at our end when they all sold out in the first day. The third was somewhat questionable. Some banks have managed to do this, I'll say, get through, some don't. With all due respect and even reflection, I will say, those who are specifically advocating that the provision to date, which means this one twelfth, should be maintained, and I will also listen to the minister with all his arguments, which he speaks of, that he cannot bear even his fellow Gantar, when he has said, perhaps there is something else to think about here, what it means and what it does not mean. I propose that, taking into account some, let us also remember there in the Income Act when we have changed some things. I think some of the arguments here are not very accurate, at least some of them, if you remember. There we also gave some credit to young families, when we said, those who also buy with their own money in the first round would be those who would buy with savings schemes or loans and there are some ratings. I agree with what you said yourself, Mr. Secretary, that you were not talking about increasing the number of ratings. I think my colleague, Rezman, has said that ratings are increasing too much, but the existing situation in some areas is improving. I hope so. Maybe that's what's keeping it. It's really something. However, it will have to be noted what is meant by the provisions of the Income Act, which states that interest is not taxed if it does not exceed 300,000 in 2006. In 2007, interest on bank deposits is not taxed if they exceed 150 000, but since 1.1.2008 we have written in this Income Act that 20% of the interest on deposits of 1 tolar is paid. But if I take this, I'm going to say, now in this euro package, I hope to say, I don't have any calculations, I mean, it looks like we're going to collect with this tax everything we're going to cash in with the savings scheme law. I will not support this amendment for the reasons presented by the government and by some other colleagues of the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Of course, I, my esteemed colleague Breda Pecan, with my opposition colleague, will not have much controversy and would give others the opportunity to be happy. This is a debate between two serious people. I would say that, of course, I was thinking about, when I was talking about this at one twenty-four, one twelve, as nothing is quite convenient, it could be even more beneficial. I agree with that. This refers to savings premiums rather than interest rates on loans, permanent loans, long-term loans and so on. So these are two different things. Of course, interest rates for these loans must be the same or more favourable and at least more favourable as for other products, because if not, it is the end anyway. So it refers to comparison, not power. That's all for information.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	The amendment to Article 20 refers to a novelty in this law. In particular, subsidies are granted to young families who for the first time solve their housing problem and whether or not they are included in the housing savings scheme. And the minister has already said he's real in his statements. Our findings are also realistic when we are talking about the fact that it is possible to get €2,300 in Ljubljana one square metre of residential space. This is the reality of the proposed solution, in our capital. Of course, I agree that in other places where housing demand is equally present, it is possible to get some square meter more from our capital. But if we put ourselves in the position of a young family, it is usually extremely weak in income. There is also a restriction, if there is more resources in this law, then this subsidy does not actually belong to it. It is very difficult to provide funds for all remaining squares. And I think that if we're already talking about who's solving this for the first time, and somehow the data that's been transmitted to how many families are going to solve this problem for the first time, they're more, despite everything, hypothetical than real, in my opinion. However, the fact is that the subsidy can indeed be concrete if it is recorded at least in a higher number than, say, proposed by the applicant. Thus, for example, to provide 160 euros per family member in the first four years shows that even after four years when this premium or subsidy is slightly reduced, it brings some 3,000 euros in subsidies in eight years. This is one to two square meters in Ljubljana. And if we're just trying to take these subsidies seriously, then I think it's still necessary to provide more funds for that purpose. However, once again, I am extremely concerned by this conclusion, because we do not actually have the position of the Housing Fund, or that it will be able to provide the missing funds necessary for these subsidies to be paid. In fact, the explanation of the law is very clear that the real housing fund will be strongly involved in a difference that does not provide the budget. I think this is a bit questionable at this stage. But if that is not the case, of course I expect an answer. However, I stress that it will still be necessary to provide more resources to make this effective and that there is a possibility within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia that it will not interfere with the housing fund in order to provide additional resources. I would also expect this to continue by making the housing fund as burdensome as possible and by looking for resources in the budget. Because I believe that some budget items in other resources are also oversized or guaranteed at such a level that users will not even be able to realise them. We have also seen this in the budget that certain resources are even so well embedded in the budget that there is no comment on either side of the budget or on the other. So the budget reserve is obvious. I suggest that this reserve is also sought for our amendment in the budget, not in the funds of the fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to say that we will support this amendment. For a number of reasons, it seems to us in particular. The first thing that is, it's subsidization. What we've been able to see is that this money that's going to be meant to be, it's going to kind of dissipate. This is a general problem of all subsidies in Slovenia, social benefits and similar matters, so that relatively large funds are dispersed to a relatively large number of people. The result can therefore be very small. The reason, then, is that there are two ways to answer that. For the first time, we would limit or focus this subsidy more or focus on specific groups, on specific groups, on any of the smaller groups, whatever, tighter criteria, we would say, indeed, the new one, which is no different and we would give him subsidies, which must be much larger or in fact, in order to subsidise, say, this is the other solution, we would cancel and say, for this money, we would build apartments on the offer and redirect the matter to the offer page. Since there is, we have remained on this demand side, the only solution to this situation is the one proposed by the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. This is to increase the volume of these subsidies or the amount of subsidies and, of course, also budget expenditure. We believe that this scale of the increase is not so large that we cannot cover it with budgetary resources and certain transfers. I agree that this cannot be covered by the housing fund itself. And that is why, as I mentioned, we will clearly support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. At the previous amendment, we were quite exhausted, so the government does not have much time to explain its position. I'm just going to explain my position for a moment. So the subsidy to young families for the purchase or renovation of apartments, when looking for the first time, solves the housing problem, is a novelty in the Slovenian legal system. As such, I think she'll have a good response. I would also like to say that when we consider the proposed amendment, we have also understood the positive intention that there will be no misunderstanding. But here I must say that as Minister, I have been truly limited in terms of possible budgetary resources and dynamics for the coming years. I would also like to say that we have made the basic calculations. If you allow me to say, it is our expectation that this instrument will benefit 3,400 young families this year. This year, 395 million tolars will have to be provided for this purpose. And then, after the dynamics forward, next year, 790, two years from now, a billion 185. According to our proposal, three years later, 580 billion and then four or five years later, 600 million. Colleagues and colleagues, these are not small budgetary resources, and this is based on solutions, as we have proposed. So when the amendment was examined, the government looked at all its aspects and decided at the meeting not to support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that the government did not consider it necessary to state in the explanation of the law - although there is a logical and reasonable explanation that this is not necessary, because there was already a comparison in the basic law with other housing promotion systems for the first time people buying housing for the needs of the family - because they would then see some very interesting examples of how members of the European Union do it; not only Austria, but not only Italy, but also a whole bunch of other countries. Among them, for example, it is unattainable for us, but nevertheless, the Netherlands. The Netherlands encourages young families to purchase apartments by reducing their tax base for income tax so much that the reduction in income amounts to half of their monthly rent for the purchase of housing. Half a month's meal! In particular, I have my father's name and surname in the family, which is why I know that this is the case in the Netherlands. I know we don't have the money to afford it. That is why we have proposed only 10% relief under the Income Act. And here, my colleagues would point out that in the Income Act, it's not the first purchase of an apartment for a young family, but it's generally about buying an apartment. And that 4% makes it easy for those rich people who are already buying a third weekend apartment, and we have cases like this. And by the way, many of the apartments that are nominally sufficient in Slovenia are not unfit to stay, but thousands of them are in tourist destinations. We only have over a thousand apartments in small Isola, which are a second apartment, not a holiday apartment, but another apartment. People who have a permanent residence anywhere else in Slovenia, including in Kozina, buy a weekend apartment in Izola. Why? I don't know, but OK, they just buy. What I'm saying is that we have a total of 6,000 households. So, 6,000 households plus a thousand empty apartments. You know what that means. Therefore, it is important to have an accurate record of how many apartments actually purchased are, which are really the first to really need the family to solve the housing problem. And that's why I'd like to warn you, because you're counting here on the effect of what's already said, and you're counting subsidies on the budget even in 2010. Why, for God's sake, don't you do it in comparison? At income, you could say that, and you could say that in marriage. When VAT is in effect, 20% will increase by so much and the income will go down, and I think the basis for the income tax for so much and so much will be much clearer, and especially for us. We wouldn't have seen any reason to make any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I, of course, understood the message of the Minister of the Interior of this clearly any minister would support the intention of this amendment. But it says, and it would be good, that's probably what we all agree on, it's better 300 than 160 than 500, 100 than 300. Of course, we all know that. But the government is restricting it. Mr Minister, with our amendment, we want you to lift this government limit and, together with the coalition, I hope that we will remove these chains for you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Chernač has signed up for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also support these amendments if the state budget were without borders. But today we are talking about the amendment to Article 20, we are talking about the real frameworks, we know what they are and what we have. We are talking about that this amendment proposed by the government in the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act will allow for a completely new approach that has not been practiced so far. So, support for young families. In the debate, there was a lot of talk about how many square metres of residential space this support means. In doing so, you took the number of some 2,400 euro square meters of the apartment. Why don't you take in these comparisons the number we're getting, say, apartments in Postojna 850 square meters, quality apartments in cooperation with the Republic Housing Fund? Then, of course, these squares are significantly higher and we'll get to a tenth of the value of the apartment and so on. Which means that this approach, the beginning of a different view of support for those who have the most difficulty in resolving the housing issue, is appropriate. Of course, it must be based on reasonable frameworks, from reasonable budgetary options that we all know and therefore cannot be weighed as much as anyone thinks. I'd ask myself, why isn't there a number here instead of 500 for 1,000 or 2,000? It'd be even better. Of course it's not possible to do that. We know what the frames are like. I think that this assessment, which has been forwarded, is good and that support and this change in the scheme is one that allows targeted support to those most in need. Not all of them, just like it was before. And I feel that, of course, these amendments cannot be supported because the basic solution will help to free this area in a different way or that it will be possible for young families to make it easier for them to get to their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I must say that the two amendments tabled by members of the Social Democrats are typically opposition. Very nice, very nice. They could be taken into account if they did not know that the budget and funds of the Fund were limited. In this amendment, the second amendment disturbs me in particular the explanation of the applicant. According to the explanatory note, the amount of the proposed subsidies is ridiculously low. And I think your amendment is ridiculous. As I said at the outset, very much like, I would support myself, but the bag they're taking from is as deep as it is. I'll illustrate it on my case. I built my own house when I was solving my first housing problem. We are a four-member family and with these subsidies, which are now being introduced by the new law, I would have received one million tolars in eight years. That would be a lot of money for me. If it's not much for you or it's funny, I'm sorry, but for me or for a lot of people who are going to build or buy an apartment, it's going to mean a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.35 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - To explain the proposal for a law on amendments to the environmental protection law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now there's another topic. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. The current Environmental Protection Act entered into force on 7 May 2004. With this law we then replaced the environmental protection law from as far away as possible in 1993. By this law, i.e. in 2004, the Republic of Slovenia, as the first among the Member States of the European Union, has also transposed the requirements of the European Council Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission trading. As you know, this Directive contains requirements governing, inter alia, the issue of greenhouse gas release licences in certain activities and establishes a greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. This is a completely new economic institution in the field of environmental protection, with which environmental pollutants can, in the most economically efficient way, limit greenhouse gas emissions and thus contribute to the implementation of Kyoto commitments. The Directive entered into force at the end of 2003. However, its requirements had to be transferred to the legal order of the Member States by 31 December of that year. And here the Member States already had an extremely short deadline within which the requirements of the Directive had to be transposed into their legal order, while also adopting the implementation of the necessary implementing rules. The Commission of the European Union also had to adopt, on the basis of the powers laid down in the Directive, certain necessary legal acts for the functioning of the market, which are also a reference framework for the preparation of national legislation and have been adopted and published following the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act. In view of the above, certain provisions of the Environmental Protection Act governing greenhouse gas emission allowance trading have to be amended or supplemented, in particular in the context of a more precise regulation of certain institutions. One of the amendments to the Directive was also in force at the end of 2004. This, however, covers emissions trading and this Directive is to be transposed by the Member States in their legal order by 13 November 2005. We're in February 2006. This Directive connects the greenhouse gas emission trading system mentioned above with the greenhouse gas emission reduction unit reduction system through the implementation of joint implementation projects and the clean development mechanism. However, the implementation of these projects, which are defined by law by a uniform concept of joint investment, is defined in two Articles of the Kyoto Protocol, between 6 and 12. Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol defines joint implementation projects that can obtain emission reduction units by investing in other countries. Proposals one, the Framework Convention on Climate Change of the developed country. There was a lot about this talk at the last meeting in Mont Real on this subject and then a good deal was reached. Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol defines projects of the clean development mechanism that can produce certified emission reduction units by investing in developing countries. However, the provisions of the Directive allow operators of installations included in the emission allowance trading scheme to meet their emission reduction obligations by also obtaining emission reduction units or certified emission reduction units. This will also contribute to the fulfilment of the obligations under the Kyoto Protocol for the individual countries that are members of the Protocol. Such solutions will certainly enable the Slovenian economy to take advantage of certain elements of the Kyoto Protocol, in particular a clean development project in cooperation with countries, with the investments of our Slovenian companies in developing countries. We have very intense arrangements. For example, if I mention the Republic of Macedonia. The use of joint investment will also make it easier for Slovenia to achieve the Kyoto objectives. At the same time, as has been said, positive effects in the international economic performance of Slovenian companies. Third reason for a more consistent transposition of the requirements of the Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment, which requires a comprehensive assessment of the plans and programmes for which the competent authority considers that they may have a significant impact on the environment. We have also proposed some other changes that are expected to contribute to the faster implementation of the integrated environmental impact assessment process, as well as to improve the quality of environmental reports and environmental impact reports. We have reduced the deadline for a decision whether to carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment for the plan. The proposed amendment also provides for the appointment of an environmental expert for only 5 years and no longer for an indefinite period of time as currently in force. However, for the current reason for depriving an environmental expert of his or her power, the possibility of withdrawal is added when the environmental expert carries out his or her work in a facsimile manner. For example, when it favoured assessing that the environmental impact report was appropriate, the Ministry found in the environmental consent process that it was not made in accordance with the requirements prescribed or when it made a written assessment which the Ministry found that it did not comply with the requirements laid down. However, a new solution will also contribute to improving the quality of the audits, by which the Ministry prescribes the content of the audit. By adopting an amendment to an appropriate article in the law, the State will pay the costs of producing an environmental report [[Mr Weber may recall the Committee's debate on this subject]] and its audits for municipal spatial acts planning the construction of municipal public economic infrastructure. This amendment will also cause me, as Minister, some difficulty in deploying the budget lines that were adopted before we adopted these amendments on the Committee. I think it'll work. The proposed law also contains new solutions whereby the municipalities where the concession or its implementation may have an impact on the municipality under certain conditions also have a share of the payment to the concession owned by the State. In addition, funds belonging to the municipality for the implementation of the concession shall not be taken into account in the calculation of its own revenue if the municipality has the costs of carrying out the concession due to the limited use of the premises, maintenance or construction of local infrastructure or the need for development assistance. This is an important change in the law and it took a lot of effort in government coordination to put this solution into law, and it is very positive for the municipalities. The proposed law also eliminates some minor terminology discrepancies with the European Union's legal acts and also editorial errors which could not be remedied by the amendments to the law. I would also like to thank the expert services of the Committee on Environment and Space, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. With your help, at a meeting of the committee, the legislative text proposed by the Government was further clarified and improved through amendments or amendments. I therefore expect, Members and Members of Parliament, that you will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space addressed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on environmental protection sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly, with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and additions to the law and less difficult harmonisation of the law with the rules of the European Union. This was also confirmed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the Committee also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The representative of the proposed law, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, pointed out in the introduction three basic grounds for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose amendments and amendments to the law on environmental protection. By the Environmental Protection Act, which entered into force on 7 May 2004, our country, as the first among the Member States of the European Union, has transposed into its legal order the requirements of the Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission trading. This Directive entered into force at the end of 2003, and its requirements had to be entered into the legal order of the Member States by 31 December 2004. Thus, Member States had a very short deadline for the transposition of the requirements of this Directive into their legal order and also for the adoption of the necessary implementing rules for its implementation. The Commission of the European Union also had to adopt, on the basis of the powers laid down in the Directive, certain necessary legal acts for the functioning of the market, which, on the other hand, also had a reference framework for the preparation of national legislation. However, since they have been adopted and enforced following the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act, some of its provisions governing greenhouse gas emission trading should be amended and supplemented, in particular in the context of a more precise regulation of certain institutions. This is the first reason for the proposed law to be adopted after a reduced procedure. The second reason is that, at the end of 2005, a supplement to this Directive, which deals with emissions trading, was put in place by the Member States in their legal order until 13 November 2005. This Directive connects the emissions trading system and the total investments defined in the Kyoto Protocol and allows operators of certain types of installations to meet their greenhouse gas emission reduction obligations under certain conditions also if they acquire units from total investments, i.e. emission reduction units generated under Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol. The use of Kyoto Circle Mechanisms in Slovenia can facilitate the achievement of the so-called Kyoto objectives. At the same time, this can have positive effects on the international economic empowerment of Slovenian companies. The third reason is also linked to the transposition of the requirements of the Directives, with regard to the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment. Following the examination of that proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia made comments to certain articles of the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Service explained that, together with the representatives of the proposed law, they had participated in the drafting of the amendments to be adopted by the Committee and in which their comments were mostly taken into account. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Environment and Space held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. In doing so, he accepted his amendments. Amendments to Articles 9 and 27 and 55 of the draft law were tabled within a time limit. The Committee adopted the second amendment to Article 55, but did not adopt both amendments to Article 27 and the amendment to Article 55. The amendment of the Committee was adopted by Article 9. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service and the debate, the Committee also adopted its amendments and, after the discussion on the individual articles had been concluded, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, an integral part of the report is supplemented by a bill on amendments and amendments to the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister and co-workers! First, let me say that the LDS Club will support the proposed amendments to the environmental law. As has already been said, I won't say it too many times. The proposed amendments are almost entirely, not entirely the result of the transposition of Directive 204/101EC and the additions to Directive 2003/87EC and relate to the additional regulation of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. The applicant must be agreed that this type of trade is a completely new practice and a completely new economic environmental protection institute. It was therefore expected that problems, technical problems and legal problems that could not be fully foreseen would arise at the time of the introduction of this trade. This means, of course, that the legal framework enabling such trading must be complemented and clarified. We believe that the requirements of both directives have been technically transposed into the draft law. The amendments to the law that we are considering today are, in particular, not entirely, not all, but, above all, most of them, of a technical nature that enables the greenhouse gas emission trading mechanism to operate and does not interfere with the fundamental principles and regulations of the environmental law. In doing so, Members of the LDS Club are asked a question to which they should actually answer in this National Assembly with the assistance of the Government's legal service and, of course, the legislative and legal services of this Parliament. Why is he going? In the future, there are still many such amendments to such directives, revisions to directives that will, of course, also result in legislative reform requirements. It can happen to us in the field of emissions trading and in those other areas that the Minister will have to bring the law into repair at least once a year, if not twice a year, so that such a law will become technically more complex, more difficult to read and so on. And the question is: Is it reasonable that any such technical amendment is also being debated by Parliament, in particular when it comes to the fact that, of course, Parliament or an interested mother's labour body can or should generally even discuss and adopt and adopt a position on the proposals or draft directives that are being addressed and adopted by the relevant institutions of the European Union and, of course, the Committee on European Union Affairs must also necessarily discuss this? Therefore, I think it would be reasonable to look at when and what nature of changes would be the subject of legal regulation, which, in fact, could be regulated by the government by a regulation without major problems or possible and to inform the Parliament that could say so, whether it wishes to accept it, say, by law or by allowing the government to regulate it by a regulation. I know that lawyers who get to know the procedure in this National Assembly are moving their heads. But I do not think it is necessary for us to be fully aware of all the technical rules on transmission and trading in emission vouchers, that we understand even and that we are also deciding this because it is not really that important our task. But once again, I warn you, this is a topic worth talking about. In other words, the proposal for a law also contains some amendments and additions relating to the acquisition of environmental consent, environmental authorisation and a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. This is a matter of clarifying the provisions of the existing legal regime in the field of environmental protection. At the same time, I would like to point out that we will support the amendments tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats in the LDS Parliamentary Club, which refer to certain benefits that should be enjoyed by the areas covered by the Natura 2000 stamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr President, once again for your word. We support the Social Democrats' proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on environmental protection because we are aware that one important directive is being transposed. This Directive brings, at European level, one of the economic instruments for climate change management adopted by the international community by the implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and on the basis of the Kyoto Protocol adopted. So this is a very demanding process, which clearly includes trading in greenhouse gas emission rights. On this proposal, the State will set out in the national allocation plan the allocation of emission vouchers, and part of the implementation of the directive will be saved by the Government if we can say so and will implement the criteria for the approval of joint projects and joint investments, in accordance with the criteria it will lay down with its internal acts or acts within its competence, so that we hope that this solution, too, which will not receive debate in the national assembly, will be adequate to achieve the objectives set out in this Directive. The second chapter, or second topic, dealt with in this proposal of the Environmental Protection Act, refers to a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. In particular, it is a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts in the preparation process of the plan, the programme of the plan or other general act and its amendments. A comprehensive impact assessment shall be carried out for a plan adopted under the law by the competent authority of the State or the municipality, both for the area of land management, water management, forest management, fisheries, mining, energy, transport, waste management. In Slovenia, however, it is also for areas already legally prescribed to produce a comprehensive environmental impact assessment in each case, namely those areas which are included in Natura 2000. So, somewhere out of 35% of the area of Slovenia is included in Natura 2000 and for those municipalities that have this area, this environmental impact assessment is necessary. Until now, the legal solutions did not provide municipalities with additional resources for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, even though the country entrusted the municipalities with the task of producing them in those Natura 2000 areas. The solutions originally envisaged in this Act have been aimed in this direction in order to recognise part of these costs, following the initial proposal of the proposer for the costs of the revision of such a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. However, we have made a change on the Committee, so that the State budget also finances an environmental report that is the basis for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, but we still believe in our Group that this measure is not sufficient and that, if the State has imposed something on local communities through Natura 2000, then, of course, these costs need to be fully absorbed. That is why we have also tabled an additional amendment, which speaks of the country taking over the costs of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment in Natura 2000. Otherwise, we welcome the solution that the municipalities under this law are entitled to the work of paying the concession belonging to the State for the exploitation of natural resources. The problem is only because there are no specific criteria at the level that this part of the payment is supposed to belong to the municipality and because Natura 2000 is certainly one of those areas that is one of the most demanding, we propose in our amendment that these municipalities belong to at least 70% of this payment. Because in the Natura 2000 guidelines we see very severe restrictions on the construction of roads being limited, that low overflight vessels are carried out outside the ecological area, that deforestation is not permissible, that forest surfaces cannot be used in time, I will say, the nesting of birds and so on. In short, very high costs are coming and we want them to be rightly allocated to these areas at a higher level.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister with your fellow workers and all those who insist in this Chamber! Members of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party will support the proposed law on environmental protection. The main purpose of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is to transpose the requirements of European Directive 2004/101 and to remedy some of the shortcomings and errors that have been demonstrated since 7 May 2004, when this basic law on environmental protection was adopted. At the time, the Republic of Slovenia had already introduced the requirements of the Directive, which referred to the establishment of a scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading. On the basis of the powers laid down in the Directive, the Commission of the European Union also had to adopt certain necessary legal acts for the functioning of the market which were adopted and published after the entry into force of this Law, and it was therefore necessary to amend and supplement certain provisions of the environmental law governing greenhouse gas emission trading. At the end of 2004, a complement to the Directive governing emissions trading was established. This Directive connects the emissions trading system and the total investments defined in the Kyoto Protocol. Just to remind ourselves, the Kyoto Protocol obliges industrialised countries to collectively reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 5.5% in the period 2008-2012 in relation to the baseline year 1990 for developed countries, while the transition countries have chosen it as they wish, and Slovenia has chosen it for this year 1986. The European Union countries have committed themselves to reducing emissions of six gases from 2008-2012, resulting in a total of 8% of the greenhouse effect. So they've increased these requirements. The only exceptions were Poland and Hungary, which managed to negotiate for 6% of emissions reductions. An important part of the Kyoto Protocol is also the so-called Kyoto mechanisms, which are intended to help industrialised countries meet their obligations at as low cost as possible. Slovenia is making difficult commitments through these directives, which will be difficult for our economy to transpose, and in the New Slovenia Group we hope that the commitments made will not overly reduce the competitiveness of our economy. Interesting data on activity on the emission voucher market in 2005 are interesting. In 2005, it was the year that this trade started and also took place. The planned trade volumes were exceeded by about 20% and the price trend of the emission vouchers was less positive, as the actual price exceeded the planned price by a good 15%, which also resulted in excess of the value of the concluded transactions. Mediators in the European Emissions Coupon Market for 2006 are predicting an increase in the price of these coupons. The relationship between coal and natural gas and the political decisions of individual Member States will be a decisive factor in shaping the coupon price this year. The bill that we are adopting today also brings some additional changes that are expected to contribute to the faster implementation of the procedure and to ensure better quality environmental and environmental impact reports. A short period is proposed to decide whether a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is necessary for the plan or not. Then there are also these details that after the new one it will not be necessary to appoint an environmental expert for just five years and not for an indefinite period of time. In the New Slovenia Group, we will also support these proposed changes. We also consider as good that the country is moving closer to the municipalities and that some of the things on the back of the municipalities are taken over by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, Mr. Minister, with his co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The environment is a living space for everyone living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It means a prerequisite for doing work, creating income and a decent life for a man. The use, especially the preservation of the environment, must be the objective of all our policies. Every Slovenian and Slovenian must contribute to this goal. In Slovenia, we have a relatively well preserved nature and a clean environment once again, which is extremely important for the quality of life in our country, as well as the fact that Slovenia wants to become more established as a tourist country. The new law on environmental protection is needed in particular because of European Union legislation. With the law now in force, Slovenia has transposed the requirements of the Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading among the first Member States into the EU and subsequent legal acts with regard to this Directive and amendments to the Directive impose a recast of the law on environmental protection. However, understanding changes to the law only as a result of the various directives, according to the SLS Group of Members, would be inappropriate. We would like to stress that the proposed changes bring some important innovations in the area of environmental protection. We are confident that these changes will also contribute to better environmental pollution control. The changes relating to the emissions trading system and the joint investments defined in the Kyoto Protocol, on the one hand, make it easier to achieve the Kyoto Protocol's objectives and, on the other hand, we can achieve positive effects in the enforcement of Slovenian companies in the international space. In all areas, it is necessary to adopt guidelines that are in the interest of our Slovenian companies, especially if this facilitates their entry into the international market, which is increasingly important in the global world. Environmental protection measures are, of course, a burden on businesses in most cases, so we need to do much more to adopt those measures which, in the field of environmental protection, can represent a comparative advantage for Slovenian companies or place them in at least an equivalent position in relation to companies in other countries. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the draft law. It will have positive effects on our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Government officials, good afternoon! Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! It was already clear at the time of entry into the EU that there are certain legislations that require adaptation at the national level. And one of these is certainly in at least one segment of environmental protection. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely convinced that this is the case. The Kyoto Agreement, as we know, has been one of the leading countries of Europe, as well as countries around the world, for a number of years, for the safe conduct of environmental pollution in the interests of humanity, its existence, the prevention of disease, not least the extension of the life of our planet. This part came so far that somehow in this global scale we came to a micro level, i.e. to conduct in the Republic of Slovenia, which is also specific, as far as this is concerned, also because of our geographical and other diversity. As we have reviewed the proposal for a law, we have found that this law introduces the requirements of the directive, as we have said, what is our obligation. It corrects certain shortcomings, which is, of course, fair and frank, that it is also recognised in the objectives of the law. And it is also essential to argue that the law does not change the fundamental concept. The basic solutions to this law are therefore two, as far as we understand, one of them is emissions trading and the other is the area of joint investment. It is true, as we have already heard today, that on the one hand it is right and we must act reasonably in the context of environmental protection in our country. It is also true that when we follow and comply with all these rules, we need to think very carefully about the impact that some measures will have on the development of the economy. Of course, there are other countries in the European Union, such as Slovakia, Poland, not to mention that they will have much more problems than Slovenia will have. However, let us not forget that the investment process of investing in modern technology in Slovenia is lagging behind compared to the most developed countries in the European Union, and that we still have a lot of working resources, which are large producers, but not ideally, the pollution of the environment that we must end up with, I think, the products of these working resources. I would like to ask, or perhaps I would like to hear from the Ministry, something more about trade, which is envisaged, so it is a matter of trading in emission vouchers, because I can honestly admit that this matter is not fully clear to us. While we understand that someone can acquire behavior, buy emission coupons, but what do they bring you? Personally, I have at times realized that we can pollute a little more if we get some emission coupons. That is why I expect an answer from the Minister. And one more question. It is also said that Kyoto flexibility mechanisms will facilitate the achievement of the Kyoto objectives, which is expected to have positive effects in the international economic deployment of Slovenian companies, and perhaps a brief explanation of the link between how to achieve faster, better international economic enforcement and what positive effects would be achieved by achieving Kyoto objectives. Of course, the law itself is very interesting, especially in some articles. With regard to Article 16, I would like to ask another question. This article shows that some elements are being extended and that they are being reduced over time. Our question would be, in the light of the law in force, why these time differences in Article 16 - Article 16 of the amendment of the law I speak and what Article 56 speaks about - why they have arisen. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we support amendments to the environmental law. This is mainly due to a positive approach to the problem, both the bill-proposer and the work-body. We are pleased that many of the issues and important questions have been resolved by the Committee's amendments, which are good and quality, which suggest an improvement in the approach to a safe and clean environment, as set out in the European Directive. As such, the arrangement is mainly reflected in the establishment of schemes and the trading of allowances when greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere, in the way in which greenhouse gas emissions are traded in the form of emission vouchers. However, most of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on environmental protection is focused on the criteria, verification and reporting of the situation that is present in a particular area of risk to the expected greenhouse emissions. Slovenia is already on a good path to a positive approach to work at the time of the adoption of this legislation and is aware of the problems that are present. It is true that so far we do not have much experience and therefore we are late for the adoption of amendments and supplemented by the proposed law. The proposer foresees that emission vouchers or trading them would solve or influence environmental policy in this direction in order to improve the current situation in this area. By signing the ratification and the Kyoto Protocol, all signatory countries, including our country, can regulate all requirements in national legislation. If so, then we have indicated the right and effective path, which will reduce the problems of the proposed amendment of legislation with the solutions indicated. The basic objective of the law is to transpose the 2004 directive and how to remedy some of the shortcomings and errors that have been and are still present in our country. In our parliamentary group, we are also pleased that the bill currently under consideration does not present any additional financial burden for the budget and does not exceed its existing financial plans and spending, except for the revision of the estimates of the expected environmental reports, which are being prepared in municipal plans, plans and programmes, which are subject to an overall environmental impact assessment. The Ministry has made a commitment on such matters. We warn that too many times it interferes with the congregation’s own income. So far, only an operational programme for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters has been prepared, while at least according to my behaviour, the operational programme for water supply and the operational programme for waste disposal with the aim of reducing the quantities of biodegradable wastes disposed of and the waste collection programme is in production. In our Group of Members, despite some concerns about consistency, we support the European acquis, as it shows how climate change can be managed in harmony with the Kyoto Protocol adopted and greenhouse gas emissions trading. We also respect the directive and the legal order of members in the EU area, so we also see a positive and time-consuming adoption in the proposed legislation. Members of the DeSUS will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Existing, this is valid, the law on environmental protection applies for a good year and a half. The question of why the changes are already being made is rightly asked. The answer is in the palm of your hand. This is an area that has only recently gained the right of the country in our consciousness and especially in the treatment of the environment in which we live. In particular, the interests of profit over the interest of protecting and preserving the current environment continue to prevail. To keep the environment clean, however, it is far too late. Only the failure to weaken the current standard is already an extremely big task, and above all a very demanding process. In this area, our country follows the EU directives, which are constantly being complemented. Thus, the addition contained in the proposed text arose after the adoption of the text of the basic law of May 2004. Following this legal act, Slovenia introduced, among the first, the requirements of the European Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading, which means an economic instrument for the impact or control of climate change, or otherwise - a penalty for polluters. At the time available for the implementation of the Directive, however, certain questions could not be answered satisfactorily and fully, such as the legal nature of the emission vouchers granted, the possibility of transferring vouchers at the end of installations, the eligibility criteria for emission allowances distribution plans, the price of monitoring, or the possible full monitoring, of monitoring of emission reports in individual countries. It is a matter of uneasy monitoring procedures and activities, as it is not least a matter of control, if I express myself more domestically, what the user of the device through the chimney, ventilation or any other device releases into the air. And it needs to be monitored. This is not to be ignored because of some of the bad experiences in Slovenia in the past period, we have such a control problem, but if something gets out or disappears into the air. One of the main problems is also the determination of the initial greenhouse gas emission ratio expressed in CO2 equivalent. Each country must then take care of a balanced situation and, above all, the user should be the one to care if he does not wish to pay the penalty for the deterioration. Therefore, operators of installations shall submit to the Ministry of the Environment once a year the quantity of emission vouchers corresponding to the amount of greenhouse gas emissions caused by the same installation. In order to monitor the operation of such a system, an independent verifier, an inspector or an environmental expert, as called by the Minister, may also be called off if he has failed to take the procedures into account in the environmental reports. The implementation of the 2004 law has shown certain shortcomings, problems in enforcement, in particular with regard to the quality of environmental impact reports, which are also envisaged for revision. This institution needs to be complemented and this amendment is governed by this law. It must be said that Slovenia is plowing the ice in this area, which is why comparison with others is sometimes difficult or impossible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal because we are aware that the environment is only one and that pollution does not know any borders; any greenhouse gas emitter exports are simply not possible because the environment, this is nature, answers globally. Global warming of the atmosphere is only a natural response to our common behavior and behavior. The so-called joint investment has a special place. This raises the question of how to ensure control by independent checking that European Union legislation is respected and whether Slovenia will even allow joint implementation projects in its territory. However, it must be made clear that the law itself will not bring much if environmental concerns do not become a way of life, behaviour and thinking and the conduct of emissions will become permanent, including with regard to the implementation and implementation of legislation. We will support in the SDS a law that is under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 31.1.2006. We have amendments to two articles, to Articles 9 and 55. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you. In addition, I would like to explain the amendment to Article 9. While we have talked a lot about this on the committee and have also come to a solution in this form that the environmental report has been further financed from the State budget, I have come to the very full assessment of the impact of the municipal plan adopted by the municipalities in the Natura 2000 area. I would like to point out that we are still faced with a unilateral approach to declaring protected areas, but at the same time we are not thinking that this insurance entails certain obligations. Well, and if we have already imposed by a resolution on the protection of the environment on municipalities to produce comprehensive environmental impact assessments, then it is also, I think, constitutionally supported, if I may say so, the fact that even the country which imposes this obligation must provide the municipality with funds for this. In part, as I said, this has already been taken into account, but not entirely. However, I would like to draw attention to some other facts that have unfortunately not been established on the Committee when we talk about the costs that users of this space or those living in the Natura 2000 area have. Indeed, the proposal was to include environmental technologies in these areas as a priority. Why is environmental technologies a priority in the Natura 2000 area? Because it is a unique biodiversity conservation area, which must also be preserved in the future. Of course, if we do not place environmental technologies in this space, then we also directly pollute this space to a greater extent than would otherwise, if environmental technologies were to be placed, due to restrictions on all other factors in this space. So, an incomprehensible approach when without any consultation with the local community, an interpretation of a regime is sought and, on the other hand, all possible options are sought and there is no need to provide any funds for this regime. If my information is correct, Slovenia is expected to receive about a billion 300 million tolars from Europe for the needs of Nature 2000, and I am interested in where this money will go, how it will be distributed, who will be the consumer of this 1.3 billion tolar or euro, I do not know exactly. I want an answer to what information is more accurate? And here is also a source from which the Ministry could certainly cover these costs, which would relate to a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. So I think there are some really technical reasons why this amendment does not support itself, because, as I said, there is a source for it. But if that's not the case, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In a way, we will reiterate the debate, as we have already opened it on the Committee on Environment and Space. First, I would just like to take advantage of this amendment in order to say that the dilemma: whether sometimes, in any way, through a change of law or by a sub-legislative act, government regulations within the national legal framework to incorporate, for example, a directive of the European Union, that is a legal system, could also be a constitutional issue that should be addressed at those levels which are affected, but which is relevant. As a matter of interest, our colleagues in Germany, when they passed a new law on environmental protection under this new directive, have changed it three times since then. Even the pedantic Germans have not invented a better model than to go to parliament. So the Germans aren't our best case here. We may have to go to Scandinavia or somewhere else. Now the amendment, as proposed by colleague Weber or his parliamentary group. First of all, what's Natura 2000? Natura 2000 is not a protected area, Natura 2000 is not a park. It's probably also a fundamental misunderstanding. That is also why I have proposed, and this year we will also do some workshops on the ground to talk about Natura 2000 and small hydro power plants. If necessary, about Natura 2000 and some major infrastructure projects in Slovenia. Natura 2000 must not be a burden. Natura 2000 as an instrument must be a challenge and an opportunity for development, and it must by no means be limited. As Minister, that's the way I see it. In short, I would like to answer, we are very much arguing, and I will also go to the justification of the amendment, which is very short, because the government cannot support this amendment. The formal basis for a mandatory environmental impact assessment is the law, the law we have here, not the resolution. For only the law can give a formal basis when you mention that this is adopted in a resolution, but it is not. So the law on environmental protection is the one that lays the groundwork for this procedure. The obligation of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is therefore based on the law and is generally provided for in cases where plans or programmes set or plan an intervention into an environment for which environmental consent is required under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. As previously said, this novel, which we have before us today, already includes one of the important solutions already proposed in Article 9, whereby the state will pay the costs of producing an environmental report and its revisions, when municipal plans - I stress - include projects of local economic public infrastructure. It will, however, be required to carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment procedure. And now the first misunderstanding to clarify it. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment, for plans including Natura 2000, is not necessarily necessary. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall decide on the necessity on the basis of the expert opinion of the Slovenian Department of Nature Protection. Data for last year. In 89 cases, an opinion was given by the Slovenian Institute for Nature Protection that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment was not necessary and only 42 were necessary. So don't say it's always necessary, because there are also these differences. We don't charge any administrative fees to run the procedure at the Ministry. As has already been said, projects of local economic public infrastructure have local importance under the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of the Area of the Network, which are directly aimed at the implementation of economic public services in the field of transport, energy, municipal economy, water management and management of other types of natural resources or the protection of the environment, as well as other networks and facilities in public use. Therefore, in Article 9, we have already proposed a solution whereby in these cases, which I have just mentioned, the costs of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, including the preparation of an environmental report, will be borne by the State. That's a big step forward. And this solution also seems conceptually correct to me. Why? Nature 2000 is based on its basic purpose and content - where are they located? As a rule, in the area outside the area of residence, normally outside the settlements, very exceptionally also in the area of residence. Maybe there's something else I can do to make it public. As we know, the Natura 2000 area covers 36% of the area of Slovenia. About 70% of this is covered only by the forest, is increased by the forest, 9% of these areas are above the forest border, a large part is also without vegetation, so they are mostly walls. The proportion of grasslands is also important. Another piece of information. In protected areas, i.e. in Slovenia the Triglav National Park, regional and landscape parks, is about 25% of the total Natura 2000 area. In our view, these are the correct guidelines and on the basis of which we can argue the arguments put forward by the proponents, we reject and say that, for those services which are intended for the implementation of economic public services and are of local economic importance, for this purpose, the costs of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment will be borne by state budgetary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	I have to say, I can't believe what I can hear. I propose, Mr Minister, that those who write these texts do not prescribe to you, but copy Article 1 of the directive, which speaks about what this directive is and also about these habitats, and you will see that it is exclusively the protection of birds and of course of all other habitat species. This is what this Directive deals with, and under this Directive Slovenia has also adopted a law on nature conservation, where it has adopted a whole series of articles and a second act, which is really necessary to read, is a law on nature conservation, which discusses how this directive is transposed through a law on nature conservation in Slovenia. Any intervention in the Natura 2000 area that reduces the habitat or state of birds should be replaced in nature by a replacement measure. But this requires a range of procedures, including a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, which is binding on the resolution. And if lawyers assure you that the resolution we adopted in the National Assembly is not a binding text or a guide to the drafting of laws, then let us discuss whether we need resolutions or not. However, if we adopt them, if this resolution makes it very clear that a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact for Natura 2000 and the plans in these areas is mandatory, this is a document for me that says that it is binding on the applicant when they prepare the law or when it plans to implement a resolution. If that is not the case, then let us stop dealing with the resolution in Parliament and let it be an act that has no meaning, no weight. In practice, however, what the introduction of Nature 2000 looks like, but I can read through the proposed protection guidelines in these areas. Look, the construction of new roads should be limited as much as possible. This meeting is, I would say, one of those meetings where we will talk a lot about motorways, about the development of the road network, and about what development and progress this infrastructure brings to this environment, where this infrastructure will be built. Nature’s guidelines say that new roads to this area are not or are being restricted to the greatest extent possible. Škofljica is also one of such investment cycles, which has extremely difficult placement in space solely because of Nature. Only forest workers should be allowed to drive on forest roads. Yes, Natura is out of the settlements, but please, in these guidelines we can then find out that someone who is not a forest worker lives by the forest cannot actually enter the forest with a vehicle. These are the limits resulting from these rules, which relate specifically to Natura 2000. Low overflights of aircraft should be carried out outside the proposed ecologically important area. Well, if we have previously found that it is necessary to restrict the construction of new roads to the greatest extent possible so as not to fly through the aircraft of an ecologically important area, it means that certain areas have been cut off from the world, not only from the country, but also from the world, you cannot practically get there on some normal path. These are the guidelines, this is the problem I'm talking about at Natura 2000 and I don't want to compare them with the parks. The park is a completely different category for me, and Natura 2000 is the basis for a variety of officials to enforce what would otherwise have been established if the park had been declared. And this is a problem that we obviously cannot solve in Slovenia when we are dealing with nature in the Ministry of People who are working closely with or only with birds or other habitat species and are not interested in economic development, they are not interested in social development, they are not interested in population, they are not interested in the age structure of a rural area, they are not interested in anything else. And I would like to point out that when we also talk about bringing some environmental technology into this space, which is on the edge of Nature 2000, then these same officials find that it is not in their jurisdiction and that they are not dealing with it. Unfortunately, I find that no one in the government wants to deal with this at all. That is why I am talking about very serious development problems in these areas. And I want to hear how we can solve these problems in a way that limits the roads, that there is no access, that you can't use the forest, yes, you live literally like a glass mold, and you can't step out of that mold, you can't look at the forest and you can't step into it literally. These are non-life solutions that I am reminding me of, and these increase costs, increase costs for municipalities, increase costs for the economy. Any economic sector wishing to have its own programme in this village, which is near Natura 2000, will also be significantly higher than if this programme wants to be implemented in an area that is not the subject of Natura 2000. I would therefore like to point out once again that there has been an unjustified rejection of the direction in this law that we have proposed on the Committee that environmental technologies should be placed in this area as a priority. This is the only instrument that enables the economy to be more competitive in this area because these technologies need less energy because they are less polluting the environment, there is no need to recycle waste and similar matters. But it's obviously too much for someone in your species to understand this problem. And today we are discussing that part of these costs, which relate to the overall environmental impact assessment, are recognised to these municipalities. We're going to have a very big problem with this, I guarantee you, and it's already written on the documents you're sending when these plans are being prepared. So, unfortunately, what they're trying to tell you is really some flat-rate assessment, but mainly a one-sided assessment, and I think it would be a really good time to stop messing around with these things and that if we decide to protect something, then we have to take the consequences that come from it. So I really suggest that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Once again, I will try to explain some things briefly to Mr Vebar, who would even say that he was too radical in my performance, but in particular he has interpreted too unilaterally some of the provisions of the laws and also of the sub-legislative acts and, above all, he has his own, as I would say, a little of the anger also on my fellow workers who have been preparing these texts in the previous term, so that there will be no misunderstanding. I'm a professional minister, and as far as I'm concerned, I respect, but if I consider it necessary to change, I suggest a change. I also propose some changes today. You have to admit that your amendment reminds me a little bit of that comparison: you offer someone a finger and then you grab your hand. I think it should be correctly established that we have taken a major step forward when we say that the costs of a comprehensive assessment will have an impact on the environment in the plan, so, for these municipal public infrastructures, that we will support this in order to cover this through state resources, that is a big step forward. I owe you an answer to the question about the financial dimension of this question, which is absolutely relevant. The financial instrument "Life Plus" is an important instrument of the new financial perspective, and we look forward to it in Slovenia also because we will receive a relatively large financial supply through it, even though it is still too small. Perhaps it would be awkward to talk further about funds, but they will certainly exceed a billion tolars and perhaps move closer over a billion, of which 45% are strictly for Natura 2000, and 55% for, as it is said, institutional strengthening instruments for the environment - even then, if you want, we can talk even more about this if you have time. Otherwise, I have to explain it one more time. The process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is also a synthesis of this legal interpretation of the resolution: law. Of course, the resolution is an important act, but the law is then the one on which the state administration and state officials operate, so I mentioned it. The full assessment of environmental impacts is the synthesis of two laws, the law on environmental protection and the law on conservation of nature. Each role goes through the process, each, but the fact is that the procedure is such that, on the basis of the opinion of the Slovenian Institute for Nature Protection, we can decide that no comprehensive environmental impact assessment is necessary. It's a legal norm, and that's how we do it! Yes, even for Nature, especially for nature! This disinterpretation, so, here you're misinterpreting the legal procedures in force, and it's good that we've made this clear. Last year we only went through 42 of these procedures and 89 of them didn't. Then there's something else I'd like to say. Nature 2000 is the European instrument that we have adopted. It is important that we place it in Slovenian space in a smart way, but no, I would say, even flat-rate interpretation will change it. The composition of Slovenian life is Natura 2000. It is based on two directives: habitat and birds. Here I have a very large regulation of specific nature 2000 protection areas, which then goes through the rules of conduct and the key word is "preservation", not "prevention". This is the approach. The way it's kept. We can read: "When the natural prevalence of habitat types, habitats of plant or animal species is maintained, the appropriate properties of bio-ingredients of habitats are maintained, it improves the quality of habitats of plant and animal species. Perhaps this discourse is somewhat unnecessary, or is addressed to me because I am one of those who will pay particular attention this year to some of the current issues related to the coexistence of this network called Natura and the normal development ambitions of municipalities, the economy, the state infrastructure. Through Naturo 2000, the railway, the pipeline, can go, but, I admit, the process is more complicated. It's exactly what he's like. There are so-called compensatory measures that we must take and follow. Natura 2000 is primarily a recognition to our fathers and grandmothers that they have treated the environment well in the past is a recognition of Slovenia. Because if that were not the case, then we would not be able to declare Nature 2000 on the basis of these two directives. In the present generation and in the future, how will what our ancestors have managed to preserve, how will we keep it, we just have to keep it, but that will be the normal way forward. Therefore, the Life Plus financial instrument is one of the options that we will certainly make good use of in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you. Minister, your claims are not true, but if they are true, of course we will try to enforce them at a time when we will adopt municipal acts, when we will discuss whether we need to produce a comprehensive environmental impact assessment or not for a plan covering one of the largest Natura 2000 territories. However, the text, which states where a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is required, reiterates the resolution, makes it very clear that these plans are in the Natura 2000 areas. It's clearly written down. If it is possible to read and use it differently, I am very happy. I will be even more pleased if the roadblock near Škofljica can be built after Natura 2000 – this is the road section that Kočevsko literally cuts off because of Nature 2000 from the Slovenian highway cross. And the guidelines I've requested to be provided to me, I'm sorry they haven't given them to me yet, but I have these guidelines that I've quoted to you, also for an investment that relates directly to the nomadic space. And this was published by the Institute of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I am very sorry that this institution for the protection of nature does not have a seat in Kočev, but two votes were lost when we adopted a law on the conservation of nature in the previous mandate, where I had the same or similar or even worse performance to those who proposed Nature. I'd like them to live in Natura 2000, in protected areas, and do what they have to do. Then maybe they'll understand what it means to face all the procedures you have to put through if you want to move a matter there. Passengers can only travel through the village following these guidelines. That means we're going to drive to Kočevsky 50 kilometers an hour for all eternity. Natura 2000 in Brussels has not yet been definitively verified. We still have the opportunity to open a real debate, because Natura 2000 in Slovenia is passed by the behaviour of local communities. However, we are obliged to take these guidelines into account, these restrictions adopted in the Nature Conservation Act, because of this European provision. And no European country has so much of its territory involved in Natura 2000, for a simple reason not: because it brings limits. We should have contracts with owners who have parcels in Natura today. We don't have one contract either. Hungary was spoken of before the entry into the European Union, that it would also pay no penalty if it did not have the Natura 2000 adopted before entry. She didn't have one, and there's no punishment today. This is a matter of deceiving, I want to say again, by those experts at the Ministry of the Environment covering this area. And this deception has too many consequences for future development. And that is the problem, and we need to start solving this problem with an open dialogue, which is why I am also opening it up to such articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Just for a little while. First of all, I would like to say that I trust my colleagues at the Ministry of Environment and Space covering this area; so far, I have had no argument not to trust them. How the procedure was conducted and how you were and were involved in the identification of these areas, that is another topic. This is what we know that there was an absolutely unnecessary time pressure here at the time. However, responsibility must be taken by those who then signed the procedure in the end. And something else about the procedure itself. I've done a lot of research on this subject and I know the subject well, and I don't need my colleagues to write me reminders, because I know the subject very well. Also because I've seen some of my fellow ministers and I've seen how they're doing. The procedure is due to end shortly on the European Commission, I think it will be early summer or late spring this year. My key question has been raised several times already whether, in the context of the current procedure, certain areas proposed for the Natura 2000 area could be exempted. The first answer is that such a proposal by the Minister would be non-hygienic and non-European. So far, so to speak, there has been no minister from the Member States of the European Union who would suggest such a thing. But they always said - and this is Slovenia's assessment, and this is the Slovenian paradox - that if we open up this topic, the area will increase, but not decrease. This is a very unusual situation. Because of the habitat bird directive, Slovenia is obviously such an area that even a reverse flow could occur if we opened this issue. So, formally, there is probably no longer the possibility that, on the basis of the procedure that was conducted in the previous composition, some areas could be exempted. Therefore, I propose a second path, which I think is a development path, I think is much more, I would say, creative, that Slovenia, which has the largest area, should take advantage of this. When we preside over the European Union, this will also be one of our important topics, and to take advantage of the Natura 2000 area as a development opportunity to make as much European money as possible with good projects and to manage it in Slovenia, and in ten, twenty years we can say: "It is good that we have more than 35% of the Slovenia area under Natura 2000." This is a European path, but everything else is a path that is not European and is virtually likely to be closed. On the issue of environmental technologies. And this is the subject of the next amendment, in part. Actually, I didn't understand. It's about how you look at this problem. Nature 2000 is in principle not contaminated, but it does not have these problems. Previously, it was said that these areas should also be maintained by means of environmental technologies. I don't have that view. I don't need it. It's the other way. Other mechanisms are, however, remaining and will be able to allow the Natura 2000 sites to remain vital. But not through the instrument of only environmental technologies. We have already discussed this a lot on the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Weber, you have half a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	It's only a half minute, but look at the Minister of Environmental Technology. You can't have a waste dump in Natura 2000. Just think about it, and then you'll be able to untangle what it means, what it doesn't mean. One production producing a large quantity of waste materials in its production needs some storage, some processing. Environmental technology, which does not do so, so waste is minimal, does not pollute the environment. And also for greenhouse gas emissions, including for chemical emissions, all of this is at the edge of Nature. And if we put this on the edge of Nature, then we keep this biodiversity, but if we place it in Ljubljana, we don't achieve it. Actually, even Barja is here, but I want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendments of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? I think there has been a debate already on both articles and on all the amendments. Here you go. You still have time, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. My friend Webber and I almost spent the whole time. But it's two amendments to Article 55. Both amendments were also the content of the debate on the Committee on Environment and Space. Allow me to briefly summarise why even after we have settled down with our colleagues again, and then we suggest that the government does not support this amendment. First of all, in our opinion, the determination of Nature 2000 areas in itself - so here we cannot catch up with Mr Webro - in itself does not allow, as he says in his explanation, a very large limit to the interference in these areas. And in itself, of course, Natura 2000 does not impose on municipalities any concrete measures necessary for the development and at the same time the preservation of biodiversity - in itself. Also, as we have already concluded together, there is no strict environmental regime in these non-parking areas. Because if we understood Nature 2000 like that, it's kind of a park. But it's not. It is true, however, that there is a need to commit ourselves to these areas in order to preserve the existing situation, which is true. That's the point of Nature 2000. However, Natura 2000 is an opportunity to further develop these municipalities through the implementation of various project and other development programmes. I've got two files. Life projects in Nature 2000 areas in Slovenia - EUR 7 million has been allocated, not much, but there is something, but through Phare CBC projects 2 million has been approved for these purposes and these projects are also under way. However, it is another additional, very important financial source, and these are rural development funds, a rural development programme, especially those in the agricultural field aimed at preserving biodiversity within the framework of the agricultural programme policy. Of course, here we are talking about larger sums of money, between 8 billion and 10 billion Slovenian tolls per year. This is a European fund, which is then merged and somehow upgraded by funds from the state budget. So these are some of the arguments on which the government does not support the proposed two amendments to Article 55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.35 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, it's an evocative proposal for a resolution on the national programme of alignment with radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. Please, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. The resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel was prepared in accordance with Article 98 of the Law on the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. On the basis of data on the types and quantities of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, trends in their production and taking into account the need to provide in a timely manner the conditions for addressing the problems associated with it have been taken into account in the preparation of the national programme, likely management scenarios have been taken into account. A proposal for technical measures is also made and deadlines are set for the timely provision of conditions for the safe management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and an assessment of the necessary financial resources for its implementation is provided. On the basis of the national programme, the Agency for Radioactive Waste will then draw up operational programmes for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and the Government will confirm them every four years. Something about radioactive waste in Slovenia. The largest manufacturer in Slovenia, we all know him because of our activities, Krško Nuclear Power Plant. There are two types of solid radioactive waste, low and medium radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel in the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The latter belongs to the category of highly radioactive waste. As a result of the operation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, about 2 000 cubic metres of radioactive and about 300 tonnes of spent fuel were created by the end of 2004. They shall be handled in accordance with the safety report and the technical specifications for the operation of the Nuclear Power Plant. By the end of the life expectancy, the amount of radioactive waste is expected to increase to 3,800 cubic metres and the amount of spent fuel can be doubled. It is anticipated that the current storage of radioactive waste at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant will be filled by 2010. At the end of operation, the Krška Nuclear Power Plant will have to be decommissioned. This will mainly produce additional amounts of radioactive waste. The resulting quantity will depend on the decommissioning technology as well as on the prescribed restrictions on radioactive waste management. The current first estimates show that there will be about 13,000 cubic meters. By ratifying the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in, exploitation and decommissioning of, as well as joint declarations signed between the two governments on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in, exploitation and decommissioning of, Krška Nuclear Power Plant, both countries have assumed responsibility in the same shares for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. Something small about a research reactor. The Jožef Štefan Institute in Brinja near Ljubljana has been operating a research reactor since 1966. Since then, it has been used for education and research purposes, as well as less and less for the production of isotopes. Its operation produces spent nuclear fuel and lower amounts of radioactive waste per year. In 1999, 219 spent fuel elements were returned to the United States. The rest of us will be able to return to the United States by 2019. The central storage facility of radioactive waste in Brinja is located at the Jožef Štefan Institute's reactor infrastructure centre in Brinja pri Ljubljana. However, it is intended to store those radioactive wastes generated by the use of radioactive substances in industry, medicine and research. The warehouse is half-buried, a concrete building is covered with ground, with an area of about 250 square meters. The warehouse is up to date. In 2005, it also obtained a permit for experimental operation in accordance with new spatial or environmental legislation. There are currently 70 cubic metres of radioactive waste in this warehouse. It also includes some 100 sealed resources in original protective containers and some piecemeal waste. Then here's the waste from the use of isotopes in medicine. Oncological Institute, a clinic for nuclear medicine, some other hospitals in Slovenia use radioisotopes in the form of closed or open sources for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. The closed sources shall be returned to the supplier after the end of use or stored. With open sources that are short-lived, for example contaminated medical equipment and materials shall be stored in special storage sites where they remain until radioactive isotopes fall to the limit allowing them to be treated as with other non-radioactive waste. Waste generated by the use of isotopes in industry and research. The Slovenian industry mainly uses closed sources, is used in process techniques for measuring flow and measuring levels and for controlling welds and other material investigations. Currently there are about 130 companies registered in Slovenia that own around 700 resources. However, there are about 200 such sources in the record. In particular, reference should be made to the sources used in fire alarm devices and as ionisers in older fire extinguishers. It's the Žirovski Top Mine. The uranium mine Žirovski vrh operated between 1984 and 1990. It produced 452 tonnes of uranium dioxide. The production of uranium resulted in about a million 880,000 caverns and about 720,000 tons of hydrometallural heifer. Both species are contaminated to such a limit that they represent radioactive waste. A uranium ore processing plant and monitoring facilities were successfully dismantled. The rehabilitation of the caves is almost complete in the cell. The last major problem is the arrangement of the landfill of Jazbec and Boršt, which we successfully resolved at the previous meeting of the National Assembly with the amendment of the law. Radioactive waste with natural radionuclides. Industrial activities may result in the enrichment of industrial waste with natural radionuclides above the prescribed limit. Most of the substances with increased radioactivity in Slovenia fall away from coal ash from thermal power plants, red mud produced in the production of clay in Kidrič, and iron slag from iron and steel residue of mercury ore in Idrija. The maximum radionuclide content contains suspended coal ash from Kočev and Kanjiarica, while other materials are less radioactive. Current indicative prices suggest a low probability that the exposure of the population to such waste would exceed the permissible limit. The national policy on the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is part of an environmental policy and is reflected in the adoption of international conventions, as well as its own legislation relating to the protection of the environment and human health, in the provision of conditions for the exercise of administrative and control functions and in the establishment of public services carrying out operational tasks in the field of the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. In order to ensure the conditions for the performance of administrative and supervisory functions, the Nuclear Safety Administration, which operates in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and the Administration of Radiation Protection, has been established and operates in the composition of the Ministry of Health. Both administrations shall also have appropriate inspections in their composition. In order to carry out operational tasks in the field of radioactive waste management and spent nuclear fuel, the government has also set up the Agency for the Management of Radioactive Wastes of the ARAO and the Ministry of Environment and Space of the Uranium Zirovski Summit. The ARAO is authorised to carry out a public economic service, the management of radioactive waste, the acquisition, transport and storage of waste, including the operation of a central repository of radioactive waste and the implementation of expert tasks in the field of radioactive waste management. Special attention is paid to providing the financial resources necessary for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. To this end, a fund for the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant was established by law in 1994 and provides a contribution to the financing of the decommissioning and management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. On the basis of the objectives of the national programme for the management of radioactive waste data on types and quantities of radioactive waste, their generation trend, and taking into account the need to provide in a timely manner the conditions for the resolution of problems related to radioactive waste, a reference scenario for the management of radioactive waste has been developed with the decommissioning programme of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as well as with this programme. On the basis of this, we have drawn up proposals for measures, and deadlines are set for the timely provision of conditions for the safe management of these wastes, and an assessment of the financial resources for their implementation is also provided. The main points of the long-term national programme for the management of radioactive waste are: the management of low and medium radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the decommissioning of this nuclear power plant and the disposal of spent fuel from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. However, all other management of radioactive waste is time- and technologically adapted to this programme. On the basis of the assumption that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant will cease to operate in 2024, a programme for the decommissioning and disposal of these wastes is also prepared on the basis of a contract between Slovenia and Croatia. The selected version of decommissioning and management of radioactive waste, also confirmed by the Interstate Implementation Monitoring Commission, has also taken into account in the national programme the management of radioactive and spent nuclear fuels. As a basic scenario in the preparation of a long-term national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, it is envisaged to build landfills of radioactive waste in Slovenia. The national programme submitted for the period 2006-2013 foresees, in this context, the construction of a waste dump of half capacity to cover the needs, only the Slovenian part of radioactive waste caused by the operation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and the disposal of all other Slovenian radioactive waste from other manufacturers. At the same time, this programme allows the technical design and construction of a landfill with a capacity suitable for the disposal of all radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant if there is a different agreement with the Republic of Croatia on a joint solution to this problem. In the national programme we presented nine important sets. The first is the management of radioactive waste during the operation of nuclear facilities. The second is the management of radioactive waste caused by the use of relative resources in industry and research, the third is in medicine, the fourth is the construction and operation of landfills of radioactive waste, the fifth decomposition, the sixth is the decommissioning of the research reactor, the seventh, the operational warehouse in Brinja, the eighth, the remedial works to remedy the effects of mining in the uranium mining Žirovski vrh, and the ninth, the management of radioactive waste with natural radionuclides. The Committee on the Environment and the Space of the National Assembly adopted amendments to this national programme as minor revisions to the resolution and were formed on the basis of a debate on the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The comments of the Environmental Protection Councils of the Republic of Slovenia were also taken into account, some of the comments of the uranium mine Žirovski vrh and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and these amendments were also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! I suggest you support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The meeting was attended by representatives of the proposer, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the radioactive waste agencies, the Krška nuclear power plant, the Jožef Štefan Institute, representatives of the Žirovski Summit in Closure Mine, the Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the views and comments of the Executive Committee of the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. At the outset, the representative of the proposer, Mr Janez Podobnik, stressed in his opening presentation that the national programme submitted for the period 2006 to 2015 was prepared on the basis of the state of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel in the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account their quantities and types, bases and international practices in this field and also taking into account the international conventions, treaties, standards and domestic regulations governing environmental protection and protection against ionising radiation. The proposal for a national programme shows likely scenarios for the management of radioactive waste. A proposal for technical measures is drawn up and deadlines are set for the timely provision of conditions for the safe management of radioactive waste and an assessment of the necessary financial resources for its implementation is provided. On the basis of the origins of this national programme, the Agency for Radioactive Waste will prepare more detailed bases for operational programmes to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of these operational programmes, the national programme will implement measures for the management of radioactive waste. The proposed resolution addresses key problems in the management of radioactive waste in the Republic of Slovenia. These are wastes from the Krško nuclear power plant, waste generated by the operation of the TRIGA research and educational reactor at the Jožef Štefan Institute in Brinj, low and medium radioactive waste generated by the use of radioactive substances in industry, medicine and research, waste generated by the use of isotopes in medicine, industry and research, and radioactive mining and hydrometal waste in the Žirovski vrh mine area. The legislative and legal service also gave its opinion. The opinion was also put forward by representatives of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development Commission, who supported in the debate the motion for a resolution on a national programme for waste management and spent nuclear fuel. In doing so, they drew attention to the period for which the national programme is being monitored. The Commission noted and recalled that the proposed national programme does not sufficiently illustrate the risk that Slovenia will face if landfills of low and medium-sized radioactive waste are not authorised by 2008 at the latest. The Council for the Protection of the Environment also gave an opinion. The opinion stated that the problem of low and medium-level radioactive waste management was dealt with satisfactorily in the motion for a resolution, but pointed out that activities should be carried out within the deadlines provided that the storage space for medium and low radioactive waste at the location of the Krka power plant would be full and the power plant could cease. The Council also noted that it would be necessary to work on variants of radioactive waste both in the case of regular closure and extended operation in the event of the construction of a new block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. In the general debate, the members of the Committee supported the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels. It is important that the motion for a resolution deals with all radioactive waste and does not focus solely on the waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. At the conclusion of the debate, the Environment and Space Committee decided that the draft resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee then moved to a second reading of the motion for a resolution on the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and then the Committee on the Environment and Space adopted its amendments on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee then voted on and supported all the articles of the motion for a resolution together. And let me mention, given the amendments, they are also an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste or spent nuclear fuel, by noting the fact that Slovenia is the only one among the nuclear programme countries with no type of radioactive waste that has any final disposal and is still looking for a location for a landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste. We would therefore like to point out that it will be crucial and very important that the deadlines provided for in the resolution are respected, because otherwise there may be a forced cessation of the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, which would certainly have very serious economic damage. In the following chapters, which are also related to this problem, we would like to highlight our relationship with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. It would also be necessary to conclude an agreement with Croatia by 2023 and to agree on what half of the waste that is to come to Croatia, what is to be left with half of the waste remaining in Slovenia or to foresee a scenario that will in any case be acceptable for the nuclear power plant to operate smoothly in its lifetime. The life-cycle of a nuclear power plant is the starting point for which we must foresee control in the event of regular closure, control in the event of an extension of the operation of a nuclear power plant. Although the resolution does not take this scenario into account, but, in the light of the energy crisis that was somehow ahead of Europe's door, I think it would be necessary for us to start making solutions very serious in Slovenia as soon as possible, how we can fully meet the energy needs ourselves. Thus, this is one of the chapters which has not yet been processed in this resolution, but is, of course, absolutely necessary in the future. It is also essential for the future to have control, not only of spent nuclear fuel, but also of the reuse or use of spent nuclear fuel, since it is usually a fact that nuclear fuel, which went through a single phase of combustion, contains more than 90% of still unused uranium fuel. It is therefore necessary to follow the sciences and technologies that will still be able to use this spent nuclear fuel for further purposes, particularly energy generation. And that is what I think is one of the great challenges that will certainly solve in the future the problem that we are facing in Slovenia when we are talking about dumping nuclear waste. We note that control over the operation of both the nuclear power plant and all other nuclear facilities in Slovenia is appropriate and that this resolution is also acceptable to us and we want nuclear safety to be the same as it was to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. For the last time, a nice welcome from this pay phone today. This resolution will also be supported by Members of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party. We estimate that this is a very important resolution, which is an independent sub-programme of the national environmental programme already adopted by the National Assembly. But it is also very professional matters that are important for human security and nature. According to the Minister, the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is based on the state of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel in the Republic of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we would like to draw attention to some of the facts that we have drawn somewhere in three points. First time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia must clarify as soon as possible the issue of an agreement with neighbouring Croatia on a strategy for joint management and disposal of low and medium-sized radioactive waste and highly radioactive waste related to the operation and subsequent decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and should try to resolve this issue within the framework of the relevant negotiations of Croatia with the EU. All radioactive waste originates in Slovenia and is a matter of concern to us and, as is the usual practice, all obligations can, as is the case with the Republic of Croatia, be transferred to our shoulders. There is relatively little time to build a landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste in Croatia or to solve the problem of shipping half of low and medium-sized radioactive waste to Croatia. We have heard that this year 2010 when the disposal site of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant will be filled, which could endanger the operation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Another time. The formation of trained personnel in the field of nuclear energy or nuclear physics, radiological protection and research is crucial for the sustainable safe operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and other nuclear facilities. These areas have been neglected in the last 20 years, people have retired, moved to other areas, and are also going abroad. A sustainable solution to the formation of personnel in all the areas mentioned above is essential, and this area includes the operation and operation of the TRIGA research reactor at the Jožef Štefan Institute. The TRIGA reactor is an important part of the research infrastructure as it provides both useful and very interesting and attractive young scientific research that can lead to academic titles, lead to international cooperation in the development of nuclear energy, the use of nuclear radiation, and biomedical sciences in industry and elsewhere. The third point we would like to draw attention to. The energy crisis, the rise in oil and gas prices has caused European Union countries, including those that have so far neglected or even opposed the use of nuclear energy, to return to its use, which is intended to ensure the sustainable development and energy security of the European Union. This is about the development of new more secure fourth-generation energy reactors, the development of new methods of energy use of spent nuclear fuel and the reduction of the volume of highly radioactive waste, the use of nuclear energy in the production of hydrogen, the incineration of coal and so on. The medium and long-term planning of the Republic of Slovenia's energy supply must include, in addition to saving all kinds of energy and developing renewable energy sources, the development of sustainable use of nuclear energy and the management of radioactive waste. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the proposed resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! Radioactive waste is a topic that is widely discussed in Slovenia, particularly in connection with the Krška nuclear power plant and the search for an appropriate landfill for nuclear waste from this power plant. The resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel in addition to waste from the Krško nuclear power plant also regulates all other radioactive waste. It is therefore a document which regulates this area in an integrated manner and is well prepared. The Committee on Environment and Space also unanimously supported the motion for a resolution. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have no comments on the proposal and we will therefore support it. Of course, at the time of adoption of this national programme, it is important to draw attention to at least two issues which are probably the most topical in relation to radioactive waste. It is necessary to find or approve as soon as possible an appropriate location for a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste and to address the issue of the division of waste from the Krška nuclear power plant between Slovenia and the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. We expect all competent authorities to direct all necessary energy to address these issues and to come up with good solutions for Slovenia. In short, we expect that the national programme will lead well in addressing the problem of radioactive waste and nuclear fuel and in future its continued use to significantly greater consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! It is a good time and a time for the national programme or resolution to act. It is good that it contains likely scenarios for the management of radioactive waste. It is good that he has defined framework arms. It is good that the assessment of the necessary financial resources, for which, at this very moment in February 2006, the distinguished Minister, we ensure that they are far too small. According to our calculations, there's about 12 billion tolars coming in. [[...]] But it's right that it's defined. We also note that it is high time that tomorrow, hypothetically, immediately after the adoption of the law, the basis for the operational programmes to be adopted by the government begins to be prepared. But first, just a few questions. Waste from the Krsko nuclear power plant. We call on the government to answer us how and why Croatia acts as it does. The Treaty with us, it does not fulfil its obligations under the Treaty, I am talking about decommissioning, and it shows no interest in meeting the contractual provisions. We want to know what that means. Are they not obliged and obliged to comply with the contractual provisions and whether we have a very precise reserve programme, where we will be using the waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant if, of course, the Croatian side will not meet its obligations. We also note, of course, the recently adopted documents in this national assembly around the Žirovski vrh mine and the obligations that await us with regard to the closure of this mine. We note that the deadline for the landfill is low and medium-level radioactive waste, following our assessment of 2007 or 2008. It's mandatory. Before all of us, especially in front of the Ministry, there is a very difficult task. Why? I have witnessed many attempts, discussions, discussions on how to deal with all the waste listed, especially low and medium radioactive waste in Slovenia. We are convinced that the first and most important task to start this month is to contact the public. Persuading the public, convincing the public, convincing the public. Following the experience of some of the colleagues I have met in my work with the European Union, minimum discussions are ongoing to ensure that local communities are aware, aware of what is low and medium-level radioactive waste and, of course, become a member of the storage chain for at least two years. Two years, minimum. Of course, everyone would like to have as much energy as possible, everyone would like to have modern technology, and no one would have garbage in their yard. So let's be honest and honest and look people in the eye and tell them. Slovenia will have to face at least part of low and medium-level radioactive waste, as well as others, at least in its premises. Of course, there are other countries, some who like to accept such and different types of waste. Of course, it would be very fair to say how much a country, as well as how much, or will Slovenia pay for its waste to be dumped elsewhere in a foreign country. In connection with the Ministry of the Economy, I am here publicly alerting or making an offer to close mines in the process. I am not just talking about the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, they are probably in the process of closing or countering the completion of this action elsewhere. Nice or ugly, I estimate that some mines or some mines, if explored geologically, could be a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste. I can speak and I think it would be necessary to do these experiments first with discussions, with geological research and in parallel with the knowledge of people, what is low and medium radioactive waste, that it is in a strictly closed barrel, a dress once or twice dressed by a worker who is still in the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, or his hat or gloves. These are essentially very harmless wastes, even if they are closed under the law. He warned that this resolution was good, but that it needed to be implemented tomorrow was probably enough, at least from our mouths, so from the mouth of the Slovenian National Parties. And once again, we stress that these activities need to be started with talks with all local communities in the country of Slovenia immediately. It is also an interesting question raised by the Council, which is also of great interest to the Slovenian National Party in relation to international rules. Whether international rules on waste management are only responsible for the country in which radioactive waste is located, I speak in accordance with international rules, whether there is a need, a need, a request for assistance or a request for assistance, as far as liability is concerned, including in the international community. And if, on which organs. In the Slovenian National Party, we will immediately support the absolute motion for a resolution and expect as soon as possible the remaining sub-legislative ones, or I will say legislative acts relating to the resolution, and in particular we expect as soon as possible the implementation of this programme to begin with a thorough financial analysis, an analysis of the implementation of the resolution programme itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Minister and Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's motion for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The government's motion for a resolution sets out a national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel under the national environmental protection programme 2006-2015. In a rather large but difficult document, it is also necessary to observe an extremely specific expertise and, in our conduct, such content of national value should be reduced to a shorter, clearer and more understandable form. With regard to solving the problem of the management of both radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, in our mission group, we note the urgent timing of storage due mainly to low and medium-level radioactive wastes, which account for most of all nuclear wastes originating mainly from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant as Krško is in considerable difficulty with the storage of these, which can further affect the nuclear power plant itself. The storage space at the location of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is nearing its optimum filling 95% for 2010. In the DeSUS Group, we believe and warn that it is essential to encourage Croat neighbours to cooperate and assume half the responsibility for handling, in particular the storage of these nuclear wastes. The mutual agreement on ownership and choice of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant between Slovenia and Croatia sets out the tasks of the two Parties. The validity of this mutual agreement has been in force since March 2003. In our belief, it is imperative to define clearly and transparently the conduct of our country in the event of a Croatian resignation or rejection of the treatment of these wastes. In doing so, we stress that the newly designed nuclear power plants are undoubtedly based on an extremely high level of safety and high technological quality. It is precisely because of the inadequacy of technological solutions that we consider that it is also necessary to ensure greater and more efficient use or exploitation of the energy value of nuclear fuel. We estimate from the analyses that nuclear fuel, which comes only once in a single combustion phase, contains more than 90% of still unused uranium fuel, plutonium and some other low-value elements, which is why such fuel is only used but not fully used. It would therefore not only be technological but also economically, financially justified and fulfilled for further processing. In our DeSUS Group, we also point to the use of a common monetary unit, whether it is tolars, euros or dollars. In our conduct, it is also necessary to establish and properly direct the period to which that resolution relates and is adopted. With regard to the storage of all nuclear waste, we are convinced that appropriate options should be found, for example for high radioactive waste, a viable safe chamber, a facility sufficient for dimensions 10 times 10 meters. In our DeSUS Group, we believe that the purpose of the proposed resolution, which includes technical measures for the management of radioactive waste, will be to provide timely conditions for the safe management of waste, to comply consistently with deadlines and, last but not least, to assess the financial means to achieve implementation, actually be realized. We are aware that all of this has to do with huge costs, as we know that countries with few nuclear power plants are also processing less radioactive waste, which are inversely proportional to the cost of storage. So less nuclear waste, a rotating high storage cost of about 20,000 cubic metres, from 10 to 20,000 euros per cubic metre. abroad, €1700 per cubic metre, from $3300 to $17,000 per cubic metre in the United States of America, €6,000 per cubic metre in Spain. In our behaviour, the option regarding the export of waste abroad would not be excluded, as such a solution would be acceptable both from an ecological and from an economic and financial point of view. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that it is necessary to change the policy on nuclear fuel processing or to ensure a comprehensive management of these wastes that are not intended to endanger people and the environment. So find a suitable location for the early realization as soon as possible and the deadline expires in 2008. In our parliamentary group, we support the Council's strong and meaningful comments on the environment of the Republic of Slovenia, which propose the necessary treatment of all possible variants of radioactive waste both in cases of regular closure and extension of operation as an example of the construction of a new block of the Krka nuclear power plant. It is also necessary to verify, in accordance with international rules, the management of waste that is only responsible for the country in which the radioactive waste is located. In our view, however, the main problem lies in the vague definition of the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia in the event that the Republic of Croatia does not accept waste. According to the competent opinion, which we join in our parliamentary group, they insist on the decision that Croatia assumes its share of responsibility to the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Finally, let us mention that the motion for a resolution, for example on page 45, states that nuclear energy does not release greenhouse gases or produce toxic releases into the environment, which is by no means true in our conduct. The motion for a resolution in the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and the use of nuclear fuel will be supported by the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The text of the resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, prepared by the Government or its Secretariat Ministry, is extremely professional and nevertheless clear and comprehensible. The fact is that Slovenia is a producer of radioactive waste. Nuclear power plant in Krske still contributes the most to these wastes. In order to adequately protect against and manage radioactive waste, we need a clear policy on all issues relating to the existence and long-term management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. We therefore need to define the objectives of long-term management of radioactive waste and the means to achieve these objectives, which must be reflected in a broader professional, administrative, political and public consensus on the approach chosen. Radiation emitted by radioactive nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel are potentially hazardous to human health and harmful to the environment. Since life is low and medium-sized radioactive waste, we must ensure that waste does not endanger present or future generations. It is therefore appropriate to deal with them in the broader context of environmental protection. Compared to other hazardous substances, these wastes have sufficient specific characteristics, so that the handling of radioactive waste is not regulated by legislation governing the management of other hazardous wastes but is governed by specific legislation. Similar treatment of such waste is similar in other EU countries. The starting point for the preparation of a national waste management programme is the current adopted and prepared strategic documents for the management of radioactive waste in the Republic of Slovenia. The possibility of building a landfill in Slovenia or Croatia is envisaged. The disposal of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear waste can also be based on an inter-State agreement with a third country. The national waste management programme defines the necessary tasks to ensure a lasting and secure solution to the problem of handling them, whether or not Slovenia will remain a nuclear state after the end of the life of the nuclear power plant in Krk. The construction of a landfill for such wastes should be regarded as a key environmental project of the programme as the timely location and construction of the landfill ensures effective protection of the natural environment against uncontrolled emissions of radioactive substances. In conclusion, when planning and deciding on the management of such waste, Slovenia must respect the principles of the Aarhus Convention in a consistent manner. The most important task will now be to find a suitable location for such waste by 2008, which will be acceptable to both the local community and the wider Slovenian space. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are pleased that there are a lot of literature in the field of public awareness, an information centre works, and information contributions are also being made in the media. In order to improve awareness, however, we believe that the interest of the media in objective reporting on the management of radioactive waste will need to be further enhanced. The key target audience is school youth and teachers, as well as interested public in local nuclear facilities communities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is suitable for reception and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Dr. Paula Gantar on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, coworkers. Obviously, we are already at this point behind this speaker stage of one and the same people, which does not impress our colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members too much if we judge by the number that is present. At the same time, I would like to voice a soothing voice that the debate on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is not, in itself, harmful to human health and will not be harmed if something listens to it. We are certainly assessing in the LDS of the Member States that the document is appropriate and will therefore support it. It is important that the document deals with all radioactive waste and also spent nuclear fuel, so that we do not focus only on the nuclear wastes that we actually manage best at the moment, but these are radioactive wastes from the nuclear power plant, because when we talk about radioactive waste, we usually have these in mind. Attention should also be paid to all other radioactive waste or waste with increased radiation everywhere where they are less visible, such as in medicine, health care, industry and elsewhere. This aspect is well worked out in the resolution and we find it useful to do so. The next thing is, of course, that the fate of this resolution and strategy depends largely on whether or not we will find a permanent landfill for low and medium-level radioactive waste. For spent nuclear fuel, I believe that a permanent solution will not be found in Slovenia and it will be necessary to find a solution, one of which is also mentioned in the resolution itself or the programme. With regard to the search for a permanent landfill for low and medium-sized radioactive waste, it is estimated that the activities carried out by the radioactive waste agency are appropriate. I have also repeatedly stressed that it seems right for me to place the criteria of so-called social acceptability in an important place in the process of harmonising professional interests and criteria relating to technological solutions, geophysical properties of the field, meteorological data, natural environmental criteria, spatial aspects and, of course, even logistics. This search, of course, is a socially sensitive process and does not suffer forced solutions, as we have seen in the past. And here I also agree with the opinion of the State Council that there is a great deal of attention to be paid to this. In any event, this document will have to be supplemented in accordance with new technological knowledge and changed circumstances. Finally, although Krško Nuclear Power Plant is owned by Slovenia and Croatia, it is the responsibility for nuclear safety under international conventions and for safe storage, this is the final disposal of nuclear waste, especially in Slovenia's competences and under the supervision of Slovenian institutions. Otherwise it can't be. Two nuclear security agencies cannot control one facility. And the awareness of this fact can also contribute to a more decisive Slovenian state's attitude towards Croatia regarding the disposal and processing of nuclear waste from the NEK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague told me that this matter is not a radioactive resolution, but there are not many Members, his colleagues in this Parliament or in here. And yet. The resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste is extremely important, welcome. And this document, which we are considering today, is certainly particularly important for the region from which I come, Posavje, where there is also this object called nuclear. We all know that the history of this facility is clear, that we urgently need it for energy needs, that it is completely safe because I simply trust the people who work and manage it. And control over it is what makes me not worried about the future of this facility, even though I live in its immediate vicinity. It is indeed a fact that has already been heard today that the year 2010 is slowly approaching when this temporary landfill will be full of Krko power plant, I repeat, temporarily. You know that at that time, the government had already had control through the agency, where the Slovenian municipalities could democratically apply for such a tender. The response was relatively modest. This is a topic that is taboo, which is difficult, which is heavy matter and slippery for many politicians, believe me. And we "holy three Posav mayors" have made up our minds. Hard, not easy and easy, believe us, but decided to live in this space, live with this facility, live with this landfill, which has been in Krk for many years. We're aware of that responsibility. We are aware of these responsibilities, which we accept as mayors in the local community, as municipal councils and municipal administrations. At the same time, someone thinks, compensation - yes, compensation, I think, is very foreign and irrelevant. It is important, however, that we try in this process, which the State has already undertaken, but the agency failed, once before, years ago - Parisian, to whom it is known, a difficult story, the then Secretary of State, Mr Sovič, the current mayor of the Maribor municipality, a rather bad story. We did so at the time poorly prepared and unprofessionally, and this has so far failed, in the same space where we today have three potential locations for a more permanent landfill of these wastes. I hope that this new story will also be with European experience, with more knowledge, with more wisdom, with a proper approach to the local population, with social acceptance in the first place. And this social acceptability, according to some opinion of public opinion research, is not so bad at the moment in Posavje, but is still unsatisfactory; what referendum decisions will require a lot of good work, hard work, professional work. And of course the time that is day, 2008, is very short - it will be tomorrow. During this time, we are talking to a local partnership agency, a steering committee that will be working here and that will try to pour some communication between the agency, the country and the local community, the local community, in order to pour pure wine on our people, more. Most of all, what we can say about this story is that we get to know them, because people are simply not familiar with this matter or very bad, but some people are nothing. When they hear "nuclear waste," it's immediately dark, and that's not true. I know that much will have to be done here with the local community and with the agency and with a number of experts in this area, which we will try in a different way. The best method is certainly to talk to people, to talk to such people who believe them, who trust them and try to convince them that one of these three locations in Posavia will also receive the moment called social acceptance. It's a crucial moment, because there's nothing else here. This is what will surely be most difficult for all of us who are involved in this story in one way or another, directly and indirectly. I believe this will not be easy and simple. I already know from the first clues, because it is literally, in my local community, such a potential landfill and in the first interview with my fellow citizens, I have experienced certain concerns, serious concerns, and I know that I have a lot of work ahead of me, all three mayors and even the local communities, to try to gain favor with this agency at this time, belonging, but I don't know how dangerous the story is. However, the opportunity and challenge for Slovenia to get this landfill after 1990. Believe me, this will certainly be the most demanding project of placement in a space of this kind of landfill. That is why I warn the Minister, the Ministry and the entire team not to allow themselves any setbacks on this path, information, correctness, professional knowledge, support for the local community and the population, for then surely, believe me, the landfills in Slovenia will not be. And this deadline that's been given is, in my opinion, real. So in 2008 you might find this potential location. In 2010, I think it's hard to catch the location already with the construction of this landfill, we have a backup year 2013. I hope that we will all be actors in this story that you have given here today, including you, fellow Members and Members, how important this is for Slovenia, how important it is for this facility. Believe me, we'll do everything we can to get to this facility. Once again, I remind you that we would not allow ourselves anywhere, in any way, to have similar bad experiences with the past, so as not to put ourselves again in prison for social acceptability in this environment Posavia, and that this location will finally be chosen, which is so important for Slovenia, so important for such wastes that Slovenia has and will have in the future. I hope that we will all be very successful together. That is why this important segment, which I think is most important to me in this resolution, I especially point out and point out once again the ministry, the minister and all the actors of this story, that we will not, however, take any wrong steps, because then the story will certainly not be finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Here you go, Mr Grimes, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	In view of Mr Gantar's previous comment and the magnetogram, I suggest that you just find out that there is not a single LDS member in the Chamber after Mr Gantar's departure. So it will be clear who maintains the presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	That's not exactly a viable, procedural question. Since there are no Members listed on the list of speakers to Mr Barovic, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I had just heard, I beg the question, I will no longer say what we thought or expressed in the Slovenian National Party was said. I have heard the words of Mr Gantar here, who said publicly that responsibility, security care and all the wastes of the Krško nuclear power plant are purely and only Slovenian. I'm asking clearly and out loud whether that's true. If true, I do not know why the contents are written on page 44, where it speaks of an agreement between the two countries, where it also speaks of the signing of an agreement with the Croatian Special Waste Agency, the Slovenian Special Waste Agency. First of all, is that true or not? Because I find it strange that all Members, Members of the Group, even the Council of State asked, everyone asked when the author's resolution was being considered, i.e. the government, what would happen if Croatia did not comply with its [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This is said to be true of everyone, the State Council, even the working body of the mother, everyone is convinced that there is also an agreement between Slovenia and Croatia on the storage of nuclear waste and fuel. We have heard a little earlier from Mr Gantar, clearly and loudly, that under international agreements concern has taken over Slovenia in its entirety. If that is true, for the first time, I ask whether it is true, and for the second time, if that is true, I would like to know exactly how much compensation, how much money Croatia receives for this is Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Miro Petek is next on the list of panellists. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I jumped pretty hard on that list. Resolution is a good document, necessary and, of course, necessary. Unfortunately, however, the interest in this resolution is not entirely exaggerated, which also shows the presence in this national assembly. The attitude towards nuclear energy, the attitude towards nuclear power plant, the disposal of nuclear waste has also been quite strange in Slovenia in the past. All of this is considered to be an affair in the first place. If we had taken this problem seriously in the past, I do not think we today would have any such problems finding a location to dispose of radioactive medium and low radioactive waste. The original sin of this disposal of NSRAO is in some ways in the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and, of course, in the decision to do so, which dates back to the previous system. As you know, the nuclear power plant has been operating since 1983, and for a quarter of a century, we still do not have a known location to dispose of nuclear waste. You're every smart farmer when he starts building a house or an economic building, and he puts a toilet in some way. That's not what happened to us. Today we are only looking for a suitable location for the landfill and much has been missed. In socialism, it would be easier to find, find this location, which might even be pretty bad, because in some way they would come to this location with some kind of decree or decree. Even in the past, the search for a site for the disposal of radioactive waste was rather strange, in some ways in illegality. In Koroška, they chose one of the most beautiful villages as a possible location, the Machine, on the border itself with the Republic of Austria. And believe that Mr Haider was not satisfied at the time and that there were almost more protests on the Austrian side than in Slovenia. I appreciate that this approach, which is now present, is the right approach. Technical criteria for locations have been developed and a call has been made. The local communities shall apply for this invitation to tender. An amount of EUR 2.3 million or rent is also foreseen. And what has been mentioned many times today is also a question of public or social acceptability, and it is true that in recent years they have also left sociologists or sociologists to decide. This resolution also mentions the relationship between Croatia and Slovenia. Of course, the nuclear power plant is a joint project between Slovenia and Croatia. I wouldn't rely too much on our neighbors to accept radioactive waste in any future. It would also not be good to think about any other common project, this is the setting up of one nuclear power plant on Croatian soil. If Slovenia has to stay in this club, this nuclear, nuclear club, then it is better to think about putting another block somewhere in Krk, rather than doing business with our neighbours, with Croats. It is also good that the resolution has detected two problems. This is the export of waste metals, imports of accumulators and the like, as radioactive waste or ionising radiation sources may also be concealed in these imports. It is also good that the resolution mentions nuclear terrorism, because Slovenia is not immune at all. It would be good, therefore, if this House ratified the International Convention on the Suppression of Nuclear Terrorism as soon as possible. High radioactive waste, however, will be the subject of discussions, according to my assessment, of the following resolutions. I think we need to think first of all about the export of highly radioactive waste. Technical storage solutions, of course, are, technical solutions are known in Europe and in the world and in this area we have to trust the profession. Surface disposal is estimated at 10 billion, underground disposal to 20 billion. I don't think we should be looking at money in this area. We should focus on safety, environmental acceptability and social acceptability.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Friday. A representative of the government, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! It has been demonstrated from the presentation of the Group that the Group of Members favours this text, this resolution. Some of the comments you have made are well-founded, unfortunately we can no longer incorporate them into the text itself in the amendment form. We've already installed some of them at the working-body session. Allow me a few explanations, maybe some comments, will somehow be fragmented, we won't be able to touch all the opinions. First of all, I would like to say that, as Minister, I would like to bring into this area the feeling and mood of professionalism, of professionalism, of some sort of arrangement, that this area, as Mr Petek has said, is too often burdened with some excellence in itself, which then acts negatively also in general public opinion, on the attitude of people, young people to this issue, especially it is important that we introduce this mood of trust, credibility into the process of finding locations of low and medium radioactive waste. I think I did it last year. We have a good team at the Ministry of Radioactive Waste, and there's been a real surprise. My assessment, Mr Janc, is that in view of the Slovenian situation, a lot of locations have been reported on this public call. It is important that the procedure is transparent, correct, that at all times good and competent answers are available and, of course, the topic mentioned above, social acceptability, especially the public, and the attitude towards young people and, in particular, planned work, also the knowledge of sociologists, psychologists and others, and respect must be justified or perhaps sometimes too quickly adopted prejudices and fears of the local population in potential locations. This has happened last year, and I thank you to all of you who have contributed to this. I would like to highlight another topic that has been mentioned once. Such a debate as today is an opportunity to make it public that such an activity does not go without knowledge and, in particular, the nuclear profession. In Slovenia there is a nuclear profession in the best years or already close to retirement. It is not new, it is not enough for a new generation of capable, ambitious nuclear physicists and other knowledge in this area. And even in today's debate, almost all the parliamentary groups mentioned in one way or another the legitimate issue of the future use of nuclear energy. Even here in Parliament you used syntagma as a "building of a new nuclear power plant block". In this way, as a legitimate political and professional question, I would say, you have also brought this topic to Slovenia's public political space, which is Slovenian and is European. And such a topic can also, of course, be followed by the participation of the nuclear profession, especially young people, who will decide on it in the sciences. The preparation of 5 operational programmes awaits us from this document. We'll do it in a row. A few of them will be made by the radioactive waste agency. We'll evaluate and go first the ones that are most necessary. You have opened a question related to the fact that the nuclear facility Krška Nuclear Power Plant has two owners, half the Republic of Slovenia, half the Republic of Croatia. Here is this specificity and I would say the exceptionalness of the Slovenian case, to the uniques in European practice. To the question that Mr Barovic posed and to the answer that Dr Gantar gave. He's right. According to international conventions and other commitments, the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the facilities located in the Republic of Slovenia with all the professional and other institutions we have. It is true, however, that due to ownership relations, 50 Republic of Slovenia, 30 Republic of Croatia, we have decided and adopted an interstate agreement with the Republic of Croatia in which we have incorporated provisions which also discuss the delayed resolution of this issue. This is an integral part of this Agreement. This Agreement shall have a special working group led by two ministers. Mag. Vizjak successfully leads it from the Slovenian side. If you ask me as Minister, I would advocate that we achieve that the Republic of Croatia will accept its commitment and that half of the waste will then also be stored, but it is a complex and long question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you, Minister. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary can also apply. Gantar, Jerovšek, Minister, Grimes. Anyone else? I will read again: Mr Gantar, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Grims and Mr Minister, every five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't spend five minutes. Above all, a few words could be said about this issue of NEK nuclear waste. Since it was said that when NEK started operating, the problem of waste disposal was not solved. Otherwise, it is important to be aware of the situation in the former Yugoslavia. At the time, NEK was conceived as the first nuclear power plant in a series of five, six or even eight power plants. Dr. Stritar may know this more and should, of course, be able to resolve these wastes together in the present Yugoslavia. Since the nuclear programme had already fallen, the NEK clearly remained with the unresolved problem of nuclear waste disposal and resolution. This would clearly be cheaper in several power plants, but this has not happened and we are probably quite pleased that this has not happened. Another important issue is not to have the impression that certain changes in the search for landfill are only the result of the current time and that nothing has been done in the past. I have to say to myself that since the late 80s I have been a part of the groups, the Institute of Joseph Stefan, which have dealt with this. The fact is that there were many different views and hopes that it could be objectively weighed by the technical technical criteria. This process, of course, did not take into account at the beginning of these aspects, which we discussed later when the issue of social acceptability was a matter. And this process was stopped with Chernobyl. The Chernobyl effect represented an essentially different attitude towards nuclear energy in its entirety and, in particular, radioactive waste, which is twice negative, is radioactive and is still waste. And ten years, so to speak, if you're looking at a public opinion, if you can even look at it right now, it turns out there's no real solution. It is only later that these trends have arisen and it is really important to point out that the opinions of sociologists, psychologists and sociologists have been taken into account here, that however, this search has slightly turned around, that it is based on the principle of social acceptability and that then, in environments that are more acceptable, which look at this problem slightly differently, they are more inclined, if you want, to seek appropriate technical and other criteria. This is a much better method and to turn this system around so that you don't actually walk in the field, and people in the television diary find out that they're digging around your environment, but to make an offer to sign themselves if they think they have a location like this. With this selection of locations, as it has occurred, I also assess the same as the minister that success is good and that it will now be from the sensitivity and serious and credible treatment of the fact that we can reach a suitable landfill for low and medium-level radioactive waste within the deadline foreseen. I am optimistic in this regard, and I think that this is the result of more than 20, 25 years of work in this area, which was mainly professional work and less political work, and now will be more political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In this debate on this resolution, I would like to say that I am pleased that we are finally starting to move on the internal stage to hope that in the near future we will get a location for low and medium-level radioactive waste. I think there's been a lot of damage in the past. I accept the argument that Chernobyl has made an extremely negative movement or concern for people, but at the same time all the time I have seen that there was some synergy between the previous government and that part of civil society, which sometimes systematically intimidated people. But they were quite the same people. On the one hand, they talked about the need for this solution; on the other hand, it was actually a non-critical intimidation of people. And all attempts have already been doomed to failure. I have to say, I've always been terribly surprised. As a chemist, I have some little knowledge of this and I must say that all those who are dumping low and medium-level radioactive waste do it in accordance with extremely narrow standards, then these wastes are not "fun" and I say more than once, if I had the opportunity, I would have had them buried in my garden, because I know that this is not the kind of thing and that the technologies available today are absolutely safe. The other is nuclear facilities. Slovenia has a nuclear facility, a nuclear power plant that will be closed once and will need to be dismantled and closed, and here, in fact, the situation of what we inherited from the previous government, an agreement, an interstate treaty with Croatia, is more worrying. Already in the stage of the adoption of this agreement, we warned Minister Kopač of his benevolence to negotiate with Croatia or to take very bad solutions. Of course, the whole thing started as a package of agreements at sea and NEK. Then the Croatians with the skills have divided this into two separate contracts, with which Slovenia is, now that we are a coalition party, we must note that we have come out with a contract that gives the Slovenian side much less and imposes much more concern. Minister Kopač spoke on the Foreign Policy Committee a week before the signing of this Treaty, and then on the second day at a press conference, that he did not see a bad pay for Slovenia in the draft contract. And since it was such a clumsy statement, then Croatia forced him to worsen the contract and it is now as far as I know that Croats still do not point to the decommissioning fund which is in Zagreb. I think it was a catastrophic mistake that this was divided into two funds, one in Slovenia and one in Croatia. We can be sure that nothing will flow into that fund and that these costs will actually fall on Slovenia. And now we have to be realistic. This is a state of emergency, such as the situation inherited by the current Slovenian government. I must say that, in this area, the previous government has not successfully negotiated that success here has brought worse spoils for Slovenia and in view of this position, as explained by the Minister, that, given the territorial location of the Slovenian nuclear facility, Slovenia is responsible for decommissioning and all that, but at the same time, we must be more present that there is an interstate treaty here and every day to draw attention to the fulfilment of this interstate treaty, responsibility is shared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. In particular, I would like to point out that I support the Government in its efforts to ensure that the issue of dealing with these substances is properly addressed, because where an inadequate relationship leads to the management of nuclear substances, anyone who travels to Russia today can be convinced of the indescribable destruction left there. Now I'm not talking about her neighboring country, which you've already talked about today, about Chernobyl, but about that warehouse of nuclear materials on the Ural that was blown up and today you have on the Ural of Lakes, in which one-hour bathing certainly not only kills every single cell of you, but all the bacteria and viruses you carry with you. For this reason, I think it is necessary to take a responsible approach to this. Here is the appropriate response to the resolution before us today. And the appropriate answer is also to other problems of the real world. Some of you have already mentioned what has been happening in Slovenia, but in the light of the debates on the threat of Slovenia, it is interesting that many radioactive substances have, according to writing, been illegally travelling through the Slovenian territory, even after reporting some of our media in recent years. And that was a long time ago before any of our soldiers went anywhere. We must therefore be aware of this reality, which we cannot escape, but we can prepare ourselves adequately for it. Finally, I cannot thank Mr Gantar for his positive role in the effort for ecology. The fact is, he told the truth, he did a lot of it. I would also like to thank him because he is one of the two people who have finally returned from LDS to this hall, and I suppose their colleagues are still looking for Drnovsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'd like to touch three more of these for a while. The first is related to the topic referred to earlier by Mr Petek. This is the case for imports of secondary metal raw materials; in particular, this applies to iron and certain other systems. It is known that these raw materials can also be radioactiveally charged. We have proposed and will shortly adopt a specific regulation which will impose upon importers of these raw materials the duty to measure the radiology of these products themselves. This is a real problem, we are aware of it, and together with Dr. Stritar, I think we have handled this issue well. That's one topic. It's a different subject. I would just like to say because Mr Yelen had a concrete comment on page 45 that energy produced from nuclear energy does not release greenhouse gases and does not produce toxic emissions into the environment. Indeed, this formulation was somewhat harsh or not entirely accurate. Yes, CO2 is not released during operation, but, of course, it is released in fuel preparation; not to talk about relaxing in mining, which is the result of fuel generation. I would now like to make use of and explain and inform the National Assembly on the procedure, in short, of the choice of locations. In November, the government took note of a preliminary study to select three potential sites for a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste. The material was prepared by a radioactive waste agency. Twelve potential locations in five Slovene municipalities were assessed and evaluated in this building. On the basis of true, I would say, a detailed procedure we decided that the procedure for preparing the national site plan would continue for the following three most suitable potential locations: Vrbina in the municipality of Krško, in the municipality of Sevnica is a place very close to Mr Janc, that is Čagoš, and Globoko in the municipality of Brežice. The next step, for these potential locations, will be a study of variants in which all possible variants of the landfill will be developed and studied in these three locations. It is also important that the procedure is now so financially, procedurally and substantively well-managed, it has background, the finances are regulated. Once again, the criterion of social acceptability is very important and I support all those who have stressed the importance of working with the public in these potential locations, as well as the public at large in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the resolution on the national programme, the assembly on the motion for a resolution will decide today in the context of the vote in half an hour. That's 4:00. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card; in this case, the vote may take place. I see that the voting devices are working. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on copyright and related rights. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 33. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 7. If the amendment is adopted, it will become an amendment under number 3. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I guess not. In this way, I note that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Mrs. Shirca, I'm afraid you only raised your hand when the vote was already under way. Once again, I ask you to raise your hand clearly as soon as I give the vote, so that I can give you time to explain my voice. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 16 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 20. Mrs. Pecanova, on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	I don't know. I'll ask my colleagues if I can do it on their behalf. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support this amendment mainly because it improves opportunities for young families to come or pay their rent more easily when they can buy it. I believe that the worst of all that we have heard today is that every good purpose that takes place in this national assembly is meant by some Members to indicate that it is pre-eminent, that we want people to like us and so on. I think our client's programme is clear enough that it is acceptable and that we always think in particular that those people who cannot reach decent housing or other goods that are accessible to people with very much money, which is relatively small in Slovenia, in such cases the Social Democrats, not only do we want to, but we must encourage this government and also the National Assembly to improve the living conditions of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law tomorrow, 2 February, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on environmental protection. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 9 of the Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 55, namely the first amendment of Article 55 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 55. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. 71 Members and Members were present, 71 of them voted against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 28th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on a national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. As no amendments have been tabled to the resolution, we are moving on to a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. In doing so, I am informing you that the Government or the legislature have not informed me that the resolutions would not have been harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. 71 Members and Members were present, 71 of them voted against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on personal name. Yesterday, 31.1.2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. On 31 January 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted. We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members were present and 69 voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a mortgage and utility bond law. Yesterday, 31 January 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since the legislative and legal service has warned that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the law is inconsistent, the government has prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. Would you like to speak to a government representative about the harmonisation amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Given that three members of the law have changed, the government is proposing the following amendments. In the title and in the text of Article 21, in the first and second paragraphs of Article 26, in the forecast text of the first paragraph and in the second and third paragraphs of Article 29, first and second paragraphs of Article 34, in the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 36, in the second and third paragraphs of Article 39, in the second and third paragraphs of Article 3, 9 and 11 of Article 55, before the words "hypothecary credit" or the word "credit" in different slopes, a new text shall be added in the words "the amount referred to in the relevant number and slope" to be added in the title and in the seventh paragraph of Article 36 before the words "credit contracts" [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Could you do it a little louder?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	and in the second paragraph of Article 5 and in Article 53, paragraph A and B, after the words "hypothecary credits" in different terms, the words "from which the claims originate" shall be added. [[...]] This is the harmonisation or editorial amendment due to the change of the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you, Prime Minister. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Dear Mr. President! I ask you if the Secretary of State can repeat this, because it has been completely unheard of and I do not know what it means to have the government present its opinion if I cannot hear this opinion. I'd like to ask you to explain the matter more clearly. I have to say that I don't understand what was said or that we take a five-minute break and then we figure it out from the magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	Excuse me. You have the harmonisation amendment on the bench. The sound was slightly disturbed because there was paper between the speech and the microphone. You can repeat it in short form, please, but without concealing the microphone. Here you go. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much, distinguished Members and Members! Allow me to read the harmonisation amendments again. I propose that I read them in the entire text because it refers to a number of articles in the law. The Government proposes that in the proposed text in the title and in the text of Article 21, in the first and second paragraphs of Article 26, in the forecast text of the first paragraph, and in the second and third paragraphs of Article 29, in the second and second paragraphs of Article 34, in the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 36, in the second and third paragraphs of Article 39, in the second and third paragraphs of Article 3, 9 and 11 of Article 55, the words "hypothecary credit" or "credit" in the different directions shall be added to the words "claims referred to in the relevant number and slope." In the title and in the seventh paragraph of Article 36, the words 'claim from' shall be added before the words 'credit contracts'. In the second paragraph of Article 5 and paragraphs A and B of the second paragraph of Article 53, after the words "hypothecary credits in different slopes", the words "from which the claim arises" shall be added. Those proposals are necessary because the other articles have changed and there is a need to ensure equality of text throughout the law. It's basically the harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you. Do Members and Members want the word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Actually, I'd just like to ask you a question. We are facing one situation in this mandate that was not owned by the previous term. When we also had, in particular when we had the harmonisation amendments and when we moved from one treatment to another, there was always a legislative and legal service that assessed such more precise situations as acceptable or unacceptable. President, I'm asking you right now why we don't have this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you. The legislative and legal service has already found out and you have been informed of the non-conformity and is now the result of their opinion here on the table. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th item on the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on price control. On 31 January 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are in the process of deciding on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 2. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on the posting of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations. Yesterday, 31.1.2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Even if you want to. Otherwise, we'd have a question for you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Yesterday, when we were deciding or discussing the second reading of this law, we found that there was no important element to the matter, and that this law was therefore contrary to the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. There's been a repeat of a story like what you actually did 14 days ago. Once again, the law that we are considering today is incomplete under Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, which is missing in the law by the sixth indent, these are other consequences. I ask: Why is marriage on the table today, and why do we treat imperfect marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	Mrs Žginer Tavš, I find that, unfortunately, this was not an explanation for the vote. However, since the question has been raised, I must say that I have checked the work of the professional service which checks the appropriateness of laws and gives me an appropriate warning. And there really was a mistake. I was not aware of the shortcomings and I am concerned with this point of the introduction, which should be regulated as required by the Rules of Procedure, because the information was not consistently correct. However, the law went through the whole procedure and the committee fully addressed everything, as well as the national assembly, so that the law is now in third reading and we are in the voting phase. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law also has a substantive effect on certain other consequences, which unfortunately, because it is weak, the Members were not able to understand. That is why I would certainly like to hear from either of you who have put the law into a meeting of the National Assembly, or from the proposer, to present to us these other consequences. But I'm sure there are other consequences. And if there are no other consequences to this presentation, I cannot support the law either, because it is not properly incorporated into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. In my own name. The law is, for the first time, commercially inappropriate, and secondly, I estimate that the missing substance, the sixth indent of Article 115 in the second paragraph, "the other consequences" are "other consequences". And since these other consequences, which are, in substance, contained in this law, are not mentioned in this law, I absolutely will not support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Mr President, thank you very much for alerting us to the matter that has been being discussed in this National Assembly for several days. Nevertheless, I would expect those who, as a parent of the labour force, led this law through a procedure to find out earlier and to tell Members and Members of Parliament this story. That is also why, Mr President, because this parent working body of another matter did not address last week because it has been assessed that the position of Slovenia does not need to be addressed on certain issues. I would therefore like to ask you, because there is no other way to ensure that such a thing does not happen, that the work of the mother bodies does their job and that in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in particular does what is necessary - but the law complements with explanations of other consequences. Of course, I think there are many other consequences. Why they are not mentioned, given the other issue of referral to so-called international missions, this should remain open until the government has made its own call. But I expect you to make sure that this doesn't happen. However, if this is established, it is only right that it is saved on the working body or that Members themselves, not from the coulaires, as has been said now, find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their voice, not in terms of debate, but in terms of explanations of voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for participating.
