ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We begin with the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Victory Jelinčič noble, Aurelio Juri, Dušan Kumer and Breda Pecan. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive motion for a law on the protection of the rights to be tried without undue delay, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Minister, Dr. Lovro Sturm, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly! Today you are considering a proposal for a law protecting the right to a trial without undue delay. This law is very important for all parties to judicial proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia, as all parties are subject to the constitutional right referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution to be tried without undue delay and to the right referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1, of the European Convention on Human Rights to be tried within a reasonable time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers these rights to be particularly fundamental rights, since if the dispute is resolved in a court for too long, the exercise of other human rights in a judicial dispute, such as personal freedom, property, personal rights, working relationship, social security and the like, is also at risk. We are aware that this law does not solve the problem of judicial backlogs in Slovenia. That's not his purpose either. The problem of the abolition of judicial arrears is dealt with in the programme for their elimination - the Lukenda programme, which is being implemented in the meantime, but this law is also part of this programme, as the law is essential to ensure effective protection of the rights of the parties in specific judicial proceedings where courts have decided for too long without a reasonable reason to provide the parties with the means to expedite judicial proceedings in their particular case or other means and the parties decide for themselves whether or not they will use these funds. I also assess that the amendments adopted two days ago by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of your esteemed assembly have been beneficial, as they have usefully corrected certain provisions of the bill so that the parties to judicial proceedings will have a clearer way of exercising their rights. The concept of the law itself has not been changed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will endeavour to ensure that the law is effectively and effectively enforced and in this regard will also ensure the necessary financial and human resources reinforcements of the judiciary and the public defence so that the parties in judicial proceedings will be protected from infringement of the right to a trial without undue delay in those specific cases. What are the main solutions that marriage brings? We had to adopt the law on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Lukend case of October 2005. And as we can see, we are responding to this judgment in a relatively short period of six months. In this judgment, the European Court of Justice found that there were no systemic grounds in Slovenia to ensure the right to protection against long-term trial or the right to a reasonable time before the courts, and ordered the State to remedy those shortcomings. The government first responded to the judgment of the European Court of Justice by placing the essential elements of the programme for the correction of judicial arrears in its basic development documents from last year in the Lisbon Strategy and in the programme of reform measures already being implemented by the Government. By means of this law, we are opening the possibility for the European Court, once it has found that the law will actually live effectively in our country, to transfer the jurisdiction in the field of trial without undue delay primarily to our country the following principle of subsidiarity, which is also an essential principle of European law. In this respect, the law offers the following solutions. Any person who is affected by too long of trial and undue delay may, by means of a supervisory complaint before the President of the court before which the trial is taking place, require the President of the Court to request a report from the judge who is handling the case to also set a time limit within which the matter should be dealt with expeditiously or even prioritized. If Or does not reach the decision of the President of the Court within a maximum period of four months, or if the President does not respond to it, then the party shall have the opportunity to lodge a complaint, the law shall give that appeal the name of the deadline proposal. It refers directly to a higher court and requires that the President or an authorised judge of a directly higher court do the same now. In this case, the deadline is six months. When the case has been resolved, the party shall have the right, within eighteen months at the latest, to request also fair satisfaction, some kind of compensation for non-profit damage due to the excessive trial. This matter must be decided by the State defence first as a mandatory procedural assumption. The State Attorney's Office must decide the matter within three months at the latest if it reaches a friendly hearing with the party, the case is closed, in the event that this does not happen, then the case will be brought to trial. Allow me, honourable Members and Members, to have some real data on nanism in this regard. We know that in the last month and even this month, we have adopted a number of judgments by the European Court of Human Rights. It is estimated that some 100 such judgments can be expected only this year and an unforeseeable number of such judgments if we do not solve the matter ourselves. Another feature of the judgments of the European Court of Justice is the continuous increase in compensation in judgements. From month to month, we have witnessed the higher numbers that the European Court has also tried to force the country in some way to regulate the exercise of subsidiary rights in Slovenia by law and by appropriate regulation on domestic soil. Of course, there is a great problem over all of us, as Damokle's sword is hanging over us the problem of the number of judicial backlogs, so allow me, honourable Members and Members, to point again at this point to the genetics of judicial backlogs and also to say that flat-rate claims are primarily responsible for judicial backlogs, or in particular judges or prosecutors or others acting in the judiciary, that such flat-rate claims are not based. Although I do not rule out the possibility that in the individual judge or, as we have seen, in the individual prosecutor's office, a greater number of pending cases will be raised in which those who should decide on them do not for such or other reasons. In such cases, we also have strict disciplinary measures in place in the law, but such cases do not give a complete picture, as the judicial backlogs occurred in 1994, 1995 and 1996 due to poorly thought-out and very poorly implemented reform of the judicial system and the reorganisation of the courts. I must say that there have also been different claims in the public that the current government and the current minister and minister have sole responsibility for this and that they were all from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Let me also illustrate this claim with specific figures. In 1993, there were only 244,700 cases at the end of the calendar year. Practically, this means that the courts handled the cases, as the case was once again larger. This is the number we have set ourselves for the Lukend programme to reach within five years such a number - about 240 thousand pending cases at the end of the calendar year. In 1993, we had this situation. And what happened then? At that time, the Law on the Reorganisation of Courts, which entered into force in March 1994, began to apply on 1 January 1995. There was a strong fluctuation between the judges and the courts; to illustrate, the largest court in the country - the Ljubljana District Court was held only 44% at that time. This number does not take into account absences due to hospital or maternity leave, which means that the actual occupation of employment was one-third. The situation was similar in 1995 and 1996. The Ljubljana Court Palace was then a house of spirits, there were virtually no hearings and the corridors were empty. We cannot therefore be surprised that this has also been done in an appropriate manner. In 1994, 57,400 fewer cases were resolved than in 1993. In 1995, 100,500 fewer cases were resolved than in 1993. And in 1996, 96,000 fewer cases were resolved than in 1993. And, of course, judicial backlogs have grown accordingly. Let's see how they grew up. I said their number was 244,700 in 1993. Next year, this was 1994 this number rose to 318,000. Another year later, in 1995 it was number 385,000, which in the coming year 1996 reached 446,500 outstanding cases. And culminated in 1997 in the number 520,000 pending cases. So, practically more than twice as much as in 1993. These are the key decisive years when the Slovenian judiciary was so much in bulk. That is also true, it confirms that the Supreme Court has been in these decisive years without a President. In 1995, 1996 and 1997, the Supreme Court was without the President of the Supreme Court. In many courts in 1994 and 1995, only v.d. And what's even worse in this situation, which, as we can see, was actually unimaginable, the cases that were before the courts were not, or remained, assigned to a particular judge, but simply lying in the courts, the judges were then assigned to the newly established district and district courts. But most of them went, and the fluctuation was extremely high. The vast majority have left the judiciary and the files remain unsigned. Here are the reasons for the backlog, and we are facing this problem today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to Minister Sturm, fellow Members, fellow Members and others who are accompanying us today! At its 21st emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law tabled by the Government for consideration by the State Assembly following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 59th regular meeting that the draft law should be considered in accordance with an urgent procedure. During the second reading, Dr Lovro Šturm, Minister of Justice, explained the additional explanation for the law and the reasons for the drafting and adoption of the bill, as well as its essential objectives and solutions, and also participated in the discussion. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their service had examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal order and had made a legislative and technical comment to each of the articles, namely Article 1, Article 6, Article 19 and Article 26, with the Committee's proposal for amendments also responding to these concerns and adopting its amendments. In presenting the written opinion of this body, the representative of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia said that in their opinion the proposed regulation would bring extensive additional burdens on the courts, as well as burdens on the Presidents of the Courts. It pointed out that the legal regime under which the President of the Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance decide on the beginning and content of the dispute was not the most appropriate. She pointed out that, while the Council of Justice was aware that the judiciary was currently in a specific situation, the situation in their view was not the most favourable for the adoption of the proposed law. Members and members of the committee highlighted the following in the debate; some felt that there was no rush to adopt the law by emergency procedure and that it could be adopted in the autumn following a regular procedure, that the law, as such, would be a greater burden for the court, that the European Court of Justice could also conclude that it did not provide effective remedies for the exercise of justice. However, the majority of the members of the Committee felt that the law should be adopted as soon as possible and that it would mitigate certain consequences of judicial backlogs and transfer the decision on the right to undue delay to Slovenian courts. The Minister also further answered the questions raised in the debate, saying that the proposed law in the light of the position of the European Court of Human Rights is a necessity and that those remedies will only be effective under the proposal of the law if the judiciary and the state defence have sufficient time to prepare for their implementation in practice. In doing so, they will also be assisted by training with the cooperation of experts from the European Court of Justice, which will need to be organised for these purposes and is already in preparation. The issue of co-inclusion and two proceedings on the same case were raised before the domestic and foreign courts. Here it was answered that this cannot be resolved in this law, but this question depends on the European Court's response. In particular, Minister Šturm stressed that the envisaged decision-making authority under this law was properly regulated, since it had previously been followed by good foreign practices. In the end, the representative of the proposer also agreed with some comments from the legislative and legal service on the necessary editorial corrections to certain provisions in the direction of greater clarity of the legislative text. The Committee has adopted its amendments and amendments to the proposal have also been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups that have been adopted, and the law has also been approved and adopted in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you so much and good morning! A morning that, like the numerous Slovenians and Slovenes, we begin either in court or by thinking about the courts. We are talking about the proposal for a law protecting the right to a trial without undue delay, and this is what we say every day. This happens every day, every day who feels it, every day who suffers personal hardships, so this need to protect one of the fundamental rights is all the more necessary. It is not new, but it has probably been further encouraged or government measures have been further encouraged by what we can call the rebuttal of the European Court of Human Rights or the reproof that came from our Constitutional Court in the form of a decision; and other reasons are likely for the government to have decided to propose the adoption of this law only after an urgent procedure. The causes of these setbacks and the lack of respect for one of the fundamental rights are likely to be multilayered. Certainly it is not just the courts, theirs as some would like to show, unemployment, unskilledness, unpreparedness, and I do not know what to add to this. It certainly contributed to something else that breathes from our general culture. I don't think we're doing too much wrong by assessing that we've become some kind of justice nation, because we're very eager to solve problems that are everyday in court, because we don't know how to respect the rule of law, because we're not used to respecting the vanity, the norms, the things that we would say are normal. Perhaps there is a reason that we are poorly qualified to communicate, to make compromises. There are certain reasons for the fact that the justice system was as described by the minister and the consequences are inevitable. These reasons we are talking about are such that our everyday life is not the best example of how we should develop a general culture that should prevent these problems that we are talking about from continuing in the future. For a short period of time, I do not think that all these problems can be solved; but for a long, longer period, it is possible to deal with some deliberate conduct and cultivation of our lives and thus avoid very often unnecessary and unrelenting conflicts in everyday life. We know where this ends. The dissatisfaction of people, the heinous compensations, the reprimands we have already mentioned, was that additional incentive for the government to take immediate action. That she decided to take action at both systemic and specific levels, but the question is whether the priorities are the right ones. It seems as if we have done so primarily because the state does not pay very high damages. If that's the underlying reason, then we missed. The fundamental reason should be a violation of the fundamental right and should be followed by everything else. The violation of the right for which people feel powerless, have no leverage or are ineffective, and Europe has taught us about it. The measures proposed by the proposer to change things for the better are the activation of people and bodies, so that they do not wait passively for what will happen, as those measures listed by the Minister from the supervisory complaint onward. While we consider that it would be more appropriate for the applicant to take all the proposals or opinions into account, there are no comments from the legislative and legal services, and to take into account the serious warnings of the Council of Justice, we feel that they are not. Therefore, we fear that any of the things that the Council of Justice has predicted may actually happen, so it would be necessary to exercise control and act on the other hand so that the consequences are not even worse than they are now. However, we will support this bill in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. The area of the judiciary has long been an area in which no one should have been allowed to interfere or should not have been involved. However, if anyone has ever been caught up in the work of the courts, a reptile of perceptions and aggressive warnings has been given to him not to interfere with the work of the courts, since the courts are an independent and independent body and any interference with the work of the courts is an outrageous attack on the autonomy of the judiciary. Even today, the judiciary has repeatedly rejected any proposals or initiatives that seek to improve or change the situation. Such proposals or initiatives are usually strongly opposed and rejected within the judiciary, and this long-standing crackdown on sand and avoiding problems, and the previous government has never had the courage to intervene in this area with appropriate legal solutions, today has led to a terrible expansion of the European Court of Human Rights rulings issued in Strasbourg. These court decisions are awarded high damages to eligible Slovenian applicants under the burden of the Republic of Slovenia because the proceedings before the Slovenian courts were not completed within a reasonable period of time. The right to a fair trial within a reasonable time period or the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay is guaranteed by the Constitution. In fact, these rights have not in practice been respected by Slovenian courts. And the consequences of such non-compliance with the Constitution of Human Rights guaranteed today are reflected in the payment of high compensation from the Slovenian budget. The proposed law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay, supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, is only one of the measures necessary to reduce and remedy judicial backlogs. I hope that these and the future necessary measures will not run into the opposition that we have witnessed at the hearing of the court's salaries, with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Members not being opposed to all the judges, but to their leadership - the Council of Justice and the leadership of the judiciary. It seems incredible and insulting to Slovenian citizens that their insistence on the levelling of court salaries within individual instances, while rejecting a model that, with the same and even increased total money for court salaries, would stimulate more successful ones, with less successful ones being able to get even less than now when they all get the same. The law under consideration is, as it is said, one of the measures that will help to make the courts more efficient and will, by itself ensuring the promotion of judicial proceedings or by sanctioning before the Slovenian courts in the form of compensation over a reasonable period of time, also relieve the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which is increasingly affected by lawsuits from Slovenia. According to Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is also an important novelty that the State's defence has greater competence to communicate or settle with the injured. There will be no court proceedings at all, as the prosecution with the injured person will agree before the action is brought, but if the action comes to light because the agreement would not be reached, a settlement will be possible throughout the proceedings, as it is usually always better to settle in practice than to end up insisting on its own, and in the end the truth will even be lost. This will also contribute to significant financial savings in addition to speeding up the proceedings and thus eliminating judicial backlogs. The proposed law also requires active action from the parties involved in the proceedings and this active action is a condition for the enforcement of the effects of this law. Therefore, the lodging of a supervisory complaint is a condition for the submission of a deadline proposal and a successful supervisory complaint or a successful deadline proposal is then a condition for the submission of a request for fair satisfaction. All of this, and something else, is the reason that the law that the government has submitted to the State Assembly is needed for admission and that is why the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms Darja Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! In the LDS, we support any well-thought-out project that would actually contribute to reducing judicial backlogs. We are aware that the judicial backlogs that continue to accumulate before our courts are an important obstacle to the enforcement of the rule of law in Slovenia, despite the speedy resolution of cases, to citizens who want to exercise their legal interest before the court, and they are seriously preventing or making it difficult. We also support the aim of providing an effective remedy for the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay or within a reasonable period of time. We have obviously not had such an effective remedy in Slovenia so far. This is evidenced by many cases of unreasonablely long-term proceedings before our courts, even more so by the number of complaints or complaints brought by our citizens due to excessively long-standing judicial proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay should therefore be adopted. It needs to be accepted as soon as possible, and it is also important to think very carefully about whether the solutions offered by the proposal of the law before us today are truly true and optimal. The proposer himself proposes that the law should only be applied on 1 January 2007, although it will be in force much earlier. We also object to this urgent procedure because we believe that there are no business reasons for such a procedure, and in our view, the proposal for a law should be further reconsidered and reconsidered, especially since it is only from the opinion of the Council of Justice that the proposal opens up a whole range of serious questions about what the consequences will actually be in our court and whether it will not be thrown into its own contradiction. In our view, the path towards the protection of this right is too complicated, as proposed, to compensate too low, compared with the compensations awarded by the European Court of Human Rights, while allowing or causing new and new judicial backlogs. All of this means that many complaints will continue to rumble in Strasbourg, and we would hope to see that we may find ourselves unwelcome, that in one of its judgments, the European Court of Human Rights will find that the path to compensation due to long-term judicial proceedings is ineffective with us, and we will start again. As far as the bill provides relief for persons who are deprived of their right to trial within a reasonable period of time, it also places a greater burden on the judicial authorities, and from this point of view we have done nothing to reduce the judicial backlog. We'll increase them more. The imposition of additional work on the courts cannot speed up the resolution of cases, and we can only hope that the courts will no longer deal with the proceedings under this bill because of the additional burden, rather than the resolution of the judicial backlogs themselves. From the Minister's opening presentation, we have not seen a valid argument as to why such proposed solutions are good and necessary. Nor did he respond to any of the serious warnings from the judicial council, but he presented us very extensively the statistical movements of judicial backlogs in the past period, and the main purpose was to convince you that the LDS was responsible for these backlogs, although this was mainly led by ministers from the SLS, then the SKD, the predecessors of today's New Slovenia, and in 1990 and 1991 from the then Democratic Party. The Minister says: The LDS, which led the department in 1992/1996, caused the most setbacks due to a poorly thought-out reform of the judiciary. Surely there is some truth in this too, but it is necessary to know that everyone, including a well-thought-out reform, is necessarily lagging behind because, at the time of the reorganisation of the courts, the judiciary is also necessarily dealing with itself, and there is some urgent empty running. However, we fear that some similar effects may cause this very law, which we are dealing with today. Today, the Minister has not convinced us otherwise. We will not oppose the law, but we do not accept the responsibility for the bad consequences that it will undoubtedly cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is not good, but it is essential that this national assembly too is very often, not always in the happiest way, dealing with the third branch of power, that is with justice. It is urgent that the judiciary is plagued by many problems, many of the questions on how to resolve them and, as a result, by the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens, and here comes our obligation to resolve them. In this resolution so far, unfortunately, although we have made many decisions, we have not been the most successful and, as a rule, the large backlogs that have been caused mainly by the reorganisation of the courts have been reduced gradually, but not in such a way that, except in statistics, people themselves in their cases feel this to an extent. This has also led to the ever-increasing demands of our citizens and citizens before the European Court of Human Rights and the first, and later in a few waves of judgments issued, which have found that in Slovenia there has often been a trial without undue delay and therefore there is a State's liability for compensation. On this basis, several warnings were also adopted that the State of the Republic of Slovenia should regulate procedures whereby compensation would be granted to citizens and citizens who rightly believe that they have not received timely compensation to regulate their right before the competent courts. This also led to the idea of adopting a law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay. I am at the debate in my mother's working body and, even today, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I am relatively satisfied with the presentation and assessment of the Government's reasons. I do not see them as euphoric forecasts of solving the problem, as some of you do, but I do evaluate them as a demonstration of the urgent evil that may give results, but they are not necessary. What bothers me in particular is that there are no different options in which we could define ourselves, and that there is also a higher-a-vis of some of the concerns of the judiciary only one, which is one which is contained in the law, and this obviously. This is what I would like to stress, and I have understood that this is also stressed by the government, not by the resolution of judicial backlogs, but only by the procedure by which concrete procedures can be accelerated. If they are not successful, there will also be a request for extreme satisfaction, either for damages or for an agreement at the Office of Defence or, if this agreement is not available, also before a court. I would like to, and I am glad to hear it this way today, I would like to hear it more often if we were aware that we will be dealing with backlogs with many of the measures that this country must take. And it would be the first responsibility of the policy for me to stop judging specific cases and to stop judging by the pedestal authorities, what the court says they are doing wrong, and that it also believes the minister in question that the courts may be responsible for backlogs in one part, and that in most cases it is a matter of the system and the implementation of this system that we have to solve. Let us organise ourselves in this law to enhance the reputation of the judiciary, to motivate it to do better, but not to pour manure on it, and to resolve the relevant staffing, spatial and other conditions that would really help to resolve disputes more quickly, so that the implementation of this law is not too necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. Article 23 of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that everyone shall have the right to decide on his or her duties and rights and the charges against him without undue delay. The right to be tried without undue delay also provides for the first paragraph of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. How important this right to trial is within a reasonable time frame, in Nova Slovenija we were aware before the first European Court of Human Rights rulings, and this has already highlighted our efforts in the previous term when we, in a desire to apply this constitutional principle, drew attention to the necessary changes. This effort also stems from the New Slovenia programme and from the slogan, probably already known to all the slogan "Right postponed, right denied". This is also reflected in the support for the amendments to the laws we have adopted in this mandate with a view to allowing for faster procedures. Therefore, we can assess those issues why the law that we have adopted today is necessary under the urgent procedure, especially as it is ridiculous for all of us here in this National Assembly to be clear that it fully complies with the business provisions relating to the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. And that is also why we have been led by the stepfather's attitude towards problems in the judiciary in previous mandates and which has led us to the final stage of the European Court's judgments. We did not just need the judgment of the European Court, we ask Members in our sent offices daily, and we are approached by people with such problems when their trial in court takes too long. The cases brought before the European Court of Justice lasted on average from seven to eight years before the Slovenian courts. And in this data, the answer is that responsibility is shared by the previous government with the LDS leading party at the helm, and it is somehow worrying that even today, when we were faced with the data, they do not want to face this truth, and above all it is worrying that they still do not want to face this problem. In Novi Slovenija we are particularly interested in how to proceed. The European Court of Justice has ordered our country to address the shortcomings at both systemic and implementing levels. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija, we welcome that the Ministry of Justice, with Minister Šturm, responded very quickly within the government, responded immediately after the term of office, first with the amendments already mentioned to certain laws aimed at speeding up proceedings, then with the Lukend programme to remedy judicial backlogs and today with the law on the protection of the right to trial without undue delay. If we look at the Justice Department programme, there are other changes ahead. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the law is well prepared because good practices have also been taken into account from countries where similar laws have already been enacted. The law thus confers a decision on the right to a trial without undue delay on Slovenian courts. The proposal provides three forms of remedies to enable the parties to speed up the decision-making process or to obtain just satisfaction. In the case of New Slovenia, we therefore support all the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to provide additional staff resources to resolve both these cases and those cases that we refer to as judicial backlogs. Members of New Slovenia will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be pleased to support the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay. The right to a trial without undue delay is a constitutional category and has been ensured as such since 1991 when the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. While we already know the possibility of judicial protection of the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay in our judicial system, these funds are not actually effective. Of course, the fact that the European Court of Human Rights explicitly stated that States parties to the European Convention on Human Rights are obliged to provide everyone with an effective remedy for the protection of the rights of trial within a reasonable period of time to prepare the proposed law has been of course encouraged. In addition, there may be a more important incentive for the drafting of this law that the number of complaints brought before the European Court of Human Rights has recently increased dramatically by the number of cases brought before the European Court of Human Rights for infringement of the rights of trial within the so-called reasonable time limit. Regardless of the causes and reasons that have led to this law, of course, we fully support the proposal. At the same time, we must point out that such a law should have been passed long ago, even though we ask in the Slovenian People's Party's Group whether the actual law will satisfy all those who have been waiting for justice in our houses for many years and whether they will be given all the opportunity and opportunity, despite the fact that the law will be passed in the National Assembly, to reach their rights within a reasonable period of time. We are aware of this in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but I would rather point out the important fact that it is one of the adoptions of a law governing the legal remedy of a violation of rights within a reasonable time. Of course, this legal remedy needs to be regulated, but this will not solve the problem of so-called all judicial backlogs in Slovenia. As I said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will gladly support the proposal for a law. We would like this law to produce visible results in the judiciary and, above all, in judicial proceedings. Although we also need to touch some other things that have any effect on proceedings in the judicial branch of government. Although we are not allowed to comment on this point, I would like to point out that in the previous government, the Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party, who were responsible at the Ministry of Justice, and in some ways I feel obliged to say, in view of some of the statements made by the Slovenian People's Party through the governments we have followed, that we have endeavoured to reduce these backlogs, that criminal policy is increasing, and in some ways we can admit that we have succeeded. Not to be overlooked that it was with certain legal procedures in the National Assembly in the previous term that we reduced the number of proceedings in the courts in such a way that we passed a law on so-called settlements years ago, on the one hand between the injured, the perpetrators and the prosecutors. In this way, we have given for smaller crimes, for smaller procedures the opportunity and opportunity for all three entities - on the one hand, the prosecutor, on the other hand, the offender, on the third hand - to hit and, if an agreement has been reached, not to run the proceedings in court and thus to give the opportunity and opportunity for those seeking their right to come first. However, if I touch on another important issue that we see in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, that regardless of who is in the government, regardless of what the government's procedures are, the government must first follow all the legislative acts that have been adopted in the National Assembly and must not give the opportunity and not even the possibility that, due to the failure to follow the legislative branch, the government should not adopt a sub-legislative act. And thus gave the opportunity and opportunity to initiate new procedures. One such law is certainly a law on hunting, which has been waiting for many years for acts under the law, and it can also happen to us tomorrow that over four hundred entities will sue the court, and we will be able to testify to a new procedure. I therefore reiterate that we will be happy to support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! During today's discussion of both the competent minister and the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I think we should all ask ourselves together who is the victim of these abnormal judicial backlogs. If we come from the Minister's words in his introductory explanation, the victim is a country. In my opinion, if this is the basis and if this is the basis for these and similar acts, we will not do ourselves any favors in our country. It is necessary to conclude, at least according to our assessment, that the victims of these unreasonable judicial backlogs in our country are people seeking justice in those institutions that have been put in their places by the Constitution. According to my assessment, the victims of judicial backlogs are citizens and citizens seeking their right. The victim is not a government of the Republic of Slovenia or a public finance manager, but he has recently become a mercenary for his past sins. And the fact is, despite the autonomy of the judiciary, there are executive and legislative branches of authorities that prescribe the pace and manner of work through the laws that we adopt and place before the judges, and through the financial resources that we allocate to them. Therefore, it is wrong for the Minister to conclude that this law must be adopted solely for the reason that the State will pay less. If the law helps to reduce judicial backlogs, of course it needs to be attached to all elements. But to talk about us being afraid, and this minister has said how many more complaints will come to the institutions of the European Union dealing with the judiciary, and we do not know which of these complaints and how many these European institutions will confirm, and as a result, how much Slovenia will have to pay, that is the only and basic reason, and that we must therefore adopt this law, is wrong in my opinion. We should be aware, at least after our assessment, that the victims of judicial backlogs are citizens and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. It also seems too political, even for the district minister who is with us today, to say or apologize to the judges for the situation. However, we all know that the entire system of action and the whole mentality of complete autonomy are responsible for the backlog in our country. As part of one of the sessions of the working body in the National Assembly, I have even seen, in 2004, in this mandate, that a Member has accused me of acting against the Constitution because I am not in favour of a permanent judicial mandate. And since I have used the word permanent judicial mandate, allow me to raise a dilemma that you have not raised so far. As part of one of the news shows this week, the Minister said that the tasks and parts resulting from this law would be met by so-called under-represented judges, or otherwise said that the judges would meet with these tasks and that it would be necessary, if adopted, to accede to the amendment of the Constitution. I therefore ask you whether you have this option in your hands, Mr Minister, for six months now, since there have been constitutional changes in the Slovenian National Party, which seek to improve the work of judges. And from this title, I really don't know if you know what is going on in the National Assembly, Minister, or if you don't even know why there are judicial backlogs in our country; but if I sum up your words, spoken days ago, in one of the central news shows, and if we summarise your thought that this law should be adopted solely because of the European Union's response, then I can say with certainty that this is the wrong step. We are confident in the National Party, and we note this from the beginning of the judicial backlog, that the solution is very simple, it is called "Constitutional Amendments", and it goes in the direction we offer to you today on the Constitutional Commission, i.e. in the constitutional process, these are constitutional changes with the limitations of the judicial mandate. I sincerely hope that this concern of yours today will also be put to the vote for the continuation of the constitutional changes that we are making in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Employment and Security Act for example of unemployment. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members with a first-signed Merrant requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	Your Honor, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to give some introductory reasons for amending the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act for which a general discussion is submitted. The purpose of the changes made by the Government is as follows. First time. To increase the efficiency of the work of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for employment, some provisions were not clear. The second objective, or purpose, which I specifically highlight, is to make the implementation of the European strategy easier and more effective. The current law has not enabled rapid implementation of the orientations of the European employment strategy. The third area is the regulation of concessions. The allocation of appropriations under the student’s concession fee has not been regulated by law so far, provided for in the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the activities of employment agencies, and this is legal matter which is part of the law and decision-making in the national assembly. Reduced the cost of student service to 45%. Of these funds, an additional 10% of the concession fee is allocated to the public fund for the purpose of scholarshiping students. Establishment of a register of work-providing agencies. The next site is public works, which introduces rights of regression for those involved in public works, thus making public works operators more equal to regular employment, and it is more fair to set wages. The salary shall be determined in proportion to the minimum wage according to the level of professional education. The fifth area is the reimbursement of contributions to employers with the aim of increasing employment opportunities for certain categories that are difficult to find on the labour market; under 26 years of age, unemployed persons who replace persons on maternity leave and over 55 years of age who are also registered for longer at the employment institution or have a surplus job. This ensures significantly better employment opportunities for these categories, which are more difficult to find employment. The regulation of data records within individual records, such as the transaction account and the issue of deleting from the active employment policy register, has so far not been regulated by law. The next set of issues is compliance with other laws. During this time, the law was passed: the Act on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Labour and Social Courts, the Law on Offences. The news that has been arranged there has been brought into line in the law that has been tabled. The Employment Act is also largely linked to the Social Protection Act relating to the provision of suitable work under a commercial or copyright contract and thus to monetary social assistance. The unemployed person is obliged to actively seek employment when involved in carrying out work in activities under the Social Protection Act. Unemployed persons may be deleted from the unemployment register if they refuse to sign the employment plan. There shall be substantive changes in appropriate employment for two levels below the level of education achieved, removals from the unemployment record if they refuse adequate employment and what may happen to unemployed persons if they refuse adequate employment. The aim of these changes is to ensure first and foremost social security for persons and the corresponding social situation primarily through work. The purpose of all these changes, as well as other laws related to this law, is to increase employment in the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, we have already stressed, together with all measures, we could obtain between 7 and 10,000 new jobs in Slovenia over the next two years. The law is coordinated with the social partners in the Economic Social Council so that work for Members is probably easier. It is also coordinated inter-resort and with non-governmental groups or categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the proposed bill which brings important positive changes to the Slovenian labour market. It will contribute to improving the efficiency of the work of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. The law follows the European Employment Strategy, aligns the situation of persons involved in the public works programme with other employees and regulates the records maintained by the institution significantly. The provision conferring powers on the employment institution to transfer to unemployed persons entitled to financial social assistance under the social protection rules will certainly contribute greatly to reducing the abuse of recipients of social assistance who have now been able to deliberately refuse to seek employment and are not interested in any kind of work. In particular, the Slovenian Democratic Party believes that the envisaged removal of administrative barriers, disclosure of tax data, as disclosure of these data by social aid applicants will be possible after a new institution, thereby further monitoring the eligibility to receive monetary assistance. There are also positive solutions in this law, which make it easier for people over 50 years of age and people with disabilities to get a job, which will make it easier for people with significantly greater problems to get a job. In addition, this law prevents applicants from applying for monetary compensation in cases where there has been an agreement on termination of work, termination of employment on grounds of guilt or from receipt of emoluments. This will reduce abuses and unjustifiable payments of benefits that we have witnessed in the past. In the SDS Group, we are also convinced that the bill will provide for a 50 % reduction in monetary compensation for two months for all persons who for unjustified reasons refuse the job offered, increase the acceptance of the job offered and increase the search for employment of the unemployed. In particular, it seems to us that it is right for taxpayers to make it impossible for all people who refuse to work, who are in any way avoiding the active role of seeking employment, to register for six months. The draft law changes the system of public works to ensure that persons involved in public works are regressed for annual leave and that public works are paid according to the minimum wage, so that, compared to monetary social assistance, the payment for the work done is fairer. The possibility of student work is still preserved in this law, although the form we know in Slovenia is very rare in Europe. A very reasonable solution is also the equalization of the possibility of student work between regular and other students. We also think that the proposed solutions are important, where part of the money derived from concession fees goes back to the students, in the form of scholarships. 800 million SIT funds, at least as far as 2004 figures suggest that it could be made into a special fund, will allow several thousand students to be granted scholarships at the outset. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is good and that it will make an important contribution to reducing abuses, improving employment policy and regulating monetary compensation in the event of unemployment, and in particular on the basis of this law, several thousand new scholarships will be available. We will also fully support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we took a good look at the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. This law is one of the many laws that form part of the normative organisation of the labour market and social policy in Slovenia with the aim of ensuring that Slovenia is a country of prosperity and that this is regulated, however, by measures to promote economic growth, employment, but not on the basis of the social security of an individual or the increase of poverty, but not by limiting human dignity. If the state and the economy want to respond effectively to all the environmental impacts not only within our country but also as a result of globalisation, it is certainly a fact that it is necessary to continue to adapt. It is therefore difficult to always take models from the past and it is also clear that reforms are important and necessary. The former government, led by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, began to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenia in 2003, which was adopted by the National Assembly under a new government with some changes in 2005 and, following the withdrawal of Damjan's reform measures, this document is back in the foreground. Of course, we agree with this in the Liberal Democracy, as we have said many times, and we have voted for it. We are of the opinion that this area needs to be carefully planned, and we advocate the idea that reforms in this area are necessary, but we do not agree with the choice of a path to reach the goal. The social security system must be designed with all the effects, take into account all the effects, make systems where the effects are seen or predicted in some way. However, the system of training for the unemployed must be based primarily on quality and various programmes of return to active life, not on some social substitutes, but on the possibility that people who have been active are removed from work for various reasons, in order to return with even greater quality. The government in its reform documents emphasises the European terminology that a balance between flexibility and security needs to be sought, but the document shows that it speaks more about flexibility than about security. In the Liberal Democracy, we are particularly committed to considering this legislation, which is part of the reform package, which concerns a particular area. Here we do not only refer to those laws previously listed by Mr Minister, but also to the law on employment and unemployment insurance, the law on employment relations, the law on social protection, the law on scholarships. All of these are now in some stage of acceptance or preparation, but it is important that all of them are directly linked, highly dependent, and that the fate of the entire population groups and each individual in these groups depends on it. One measure affects the other and vice versa. Reform legislation should thus include an assessment of any possible proposed amendments. Those who are economic in nature and, of course, those who are general, social, are called positive, negative impacts on the population. Therefore, the adoption of an individual segment does not work exactly in a coordinated manner and is not possible after a rapid procedure. Of course, there is something to put out, but there is certainly no way to solve the problems that life brings. The lack of civil society contribution is also quite obvious and civil society must have an open-stage and not internet-based opinion. Of course, also because of the absence of the Minister, his professional associates are not able to hear a word later. There's something else I need to say before I finish. There has been a lot of talk about European examples, but there is not a single Nordic country in some EU countries that is often presented to us in the language of example, not Finland, not Sweden, not Denmark, not Iceland and Norway, which are not otherwise in the EU, but which have exemplary arrangements, not the Netherlands. Representatives of the government visited these Nordic countries. It is precisely to familiarise ourselves with models in the field of employment policy, social policy, education, training. I don't know if it's so filthy out there that it can't be an example, or it doesn't fit any other criteria. The systems are described in Germany, Luxembourg, France, and elsewhere. I have a feeling that it is not a document that is really trying to solve these things in reality, but it is more about what is constantly coordinated, to reduce rights, freedom to cultivate distrust of citizens, etc. For example, I can also say this - employment by the age of 26, it is beautifully written: for the first job, the state is supposed to pay contributions instead of the employer, but let's see what the labour market requires and who those people are and how old they are, who will be looking for the first job. There's a lot of them in 26 years. Nothing for you. So something's written down, so it's nice and sounding good, and it's not really going to happen. As you review this bill, keep these matters in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act is another type of government law, more specifically the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where it would be difficult to say in the Social Democrats Group that the measures envisaged would also produce the expected results. First, it should be noted that there is a clear difference between the objectives and solutions of the law set out in the explanatory memorandum on the one hand and the actual content of the articles of the law on the other hand. One who reads only the explanation gets the impression that it is a solid law that brings some improvements and good solutions. On the other hand, the text of the law brings unimaginable, ambiguous, and illogical solutions. The draft law on employment and insurance in the case of unemployment in the introduction sets out what new developments are expected to bring about changes in the law. In addition to some harmonisations with European rules in the European Union and employment policy, it is intended to enable faster employment of young people, first job seekers and older and permanently unemployed people. It is true that the law brings some innovations in the area of the activation of the unemployed, but the Social Democrats believe that all appropriate measures should be taken first to address the problem of the unemployed, only then to focus attention on preventing the abuse of all forms of aid for the unemployed, if such abuses actually occur to the extent that they can be heard. The issue is the activation of unemployed persons and their obligations after the adoption of different forms of work, but these solutions are more in the direction of sanctioning and coercion, not incentives and changes in attitudes towards work, which should be at the top of the agenda. Work should be understood as the only long-term solution to prevent poverty and social exclusion. In short, work should once again become a value and a right, not an obligation or even a punishment. Under Article 36 of the proposed amendment to the law, young people who have been registered for more than one year at the Employment Service are expected to be eligible for reimbursement of contributions. We see no reason why it would take such a long time to wait for work. This is totally in line with the European Employment Policy and Employment Guidelines in the European Union, which defines as long-term unemployment a person under the age of 26 who has been registered for more than 6 months at the Employment Service on condition that he is actively seeking employment. We believe that the proposed legal measure should follow this direction and should therefore apply to persons who seek employment for 6 months or more. Similarly, all unemployed, over 55 years of age, who have been registered at the institution for more than one year under the condition that they are actively seeking employment, should be entitled to the reimbursement of their contributions. For a person over 55 years of age, there has been a severe blow for a year without a job and there is no need to give 24 months as a necessary time to wait for a job. In the light of Article 36, it is also problematic to define the surplus professions. Sufficient professions under this Act are defined in two articles, Article 36, which clearly refers to regional subsidiarity. Such an approach is very dangerous, as instead of introducing measures for greater mobility, they introduce a measure to legalise immobility. It would be more reasonable to stimulate and replace the employer with transport costs, thus increasing the mobility of workers as the Slovenian labour market is in order to identify subsidiarity at a small regional level, which covers only the area of each departmental service of the institution. It is also an inadequate solution to identify the sub-favourable professions in Article 39 of the Law, when the Minister in the Active Employment Policy Programme is to prescribe a methodology to determine the subsidiarity of professions. This is an expert and not a political issue, so we believe that the law should provide for a deadline in which a model for determining subsidiarity is developed. Which professions are actually sub-favourable in a given part and can be determined by the Minister on the basis of such a model. It is important to identify subsidiarity at the level of the country, but the model can also have a mechanism to identify job deficits at the level of the region with a view to identifying the educational programmes listed. The introduction also states that the law brings about qualitative changes in the functioning of the Employment Service. We therefore refer to the issue of where in the law these qualitative changes in the functioning of the institution appear. We don't see them ourselves. The only serious intervention in the institution is a grave attack on the structure of the institution's world, where the government, through an agreement with the social partners, is destroying the existing three-partite management system of the institution. Instead of the current balanced composition of the institution, where a government, employers and employees are represented equally by four representatives, the government wants to raise the share of its representatives in the troika by half. The government wants to make it clear to employers and trade unions who has the main word. This, of course, is nothing new and the Minister of Resources is just going out of his way to break the agreed system of decision-making between the government, employers and workers in the context of social dialogue. Apparently, he wants to replace it with a model where government authority will be without competition. The representatives of the labour and union sides will be there for a better impression not to say decoration, the decision-making powers will have none. First, Minister Drobnic did this with the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, and now he wants to do it with the Employment Service. We don't know why? Obviously, he wants us to remember his mandate, if not by good solutions, and then kill a tormented tripartite social dialogue. A problem in the law is also an unpaid humanitarian or other similar work that lasts for a maximum of 56 hours a month and is to be organised by the institution itself or in agreement with the institution of a non-profit government organisation. First, the question arises why such work could not, in agreement with the institution, be organised by an organisation of a public character, a public institution or a local community. If we are to introduce some form of compulsory social work, it is pointless to exclude the public sector: health care homes, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, public cultural constitutionals and the like. In principle, we are not opposed to social work, but the solution proposed is somewhat flawed. On the basis of the foregoing considerations, the issue of conscientious objection must also be highlighted for various reasons. In the light of the proposed law, there is no possibility for those who would be referred to such work by the institution to reject certain work because it does not agree with the objectives and views of a non-profit, non-governmental organisation where work would be carried out. On what basis, for example, a certain atheist may refuse to work in an organization that has a church or religious background. After the proposed decree of the law, the unemployed person who would refuse to work in such an institution because of disagreement with the nature of the organisation where it is intended to be abolished will also lose half the monetary compensation for a period of two months. There are still cases that could be filed. Although the bill contains some solutions that are worthy of support, they lack imagination. For example, a measure that limits student work to 90 days of interruption by the same employer is interesting. We welcome the efforts to limit student work and prevent abuse, but it is not clear why the proposed measures are toothless. What problem is it every three months to stop a student’s work with the same employer for 1 day? We also welcome the solutions that employment agencies have a greater role to play, but we warn that information is spreading that it is not possible to obtain new concessions for the functioning of the agencies. The criteria to which concessions can be granted are exclusively within the discretion of the Minister and should therefore seek to develop as many quality agencies as possible, allowing the unemployed and the employer to get faster employment, and the loss of employment will not be a long-term unemployment, but rather a search for a new opportunity. Employment agencies are also expected to be given the power to produce employment plans, so we propose to introduce into the law a period within which appropriate sub-laws are drawn up which will clearly define the content and procedures of the employment plan for the unemployed, as the consequences are severe if the plan is inadequate for the unemployed. For the uniform implementation and satisfaction of the quality of the employment plan, it is essential that the content and rules be governed by clear guidelines. We also welcome the increase in funding for scholarships by 800 million, but it is clear that it is a drop in the sea, as this volume of funding does not significantly address the issue of scholarships, as it only allows an additional scholarship to about 1,000 fellows. It would be useful to relaunch the idea that these funds could also be allocated to the first job of young people to complete their studies. To conclude, the law in the proposed form has some small steps in the right direction, but it does not bring significant positive movements. Most of the concerns to repeat are, however, the solutions that are more targeted at sanctioning than at seeking measures to reduce the time of unemployment, especially for job seekers and to overcome long-term unemployment, with a group of older unemployed in mind in particular. However, some solutions are so unthinkable or even unacceptable that the proposed text cannot be supported without reservations as a suitable basis for further consideration. In most areas, the law will not bring special benefits and, apart from the exceptions, no material damage. However, the law clearly confirms the government's policy of full power and control, which seeks to make partners subordinates without the power of decision. Social Democrats are therefore expected from the government, if it plans and expects our support for this law, then this bill must also be amended accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act was adopted in 1991. The amendments to this Act, however, are very broad in terms of changes in the field of job intervention for unemployed people receiving financial assistance in the field of arrangements for organisations and employers providing occasional and temporary work to students and students, in the field of more effective implementation of active employment policy measures, in the area of the identification of new rights for persons involved in public works, while at the same time changing organisational structures in the employment institution. The law further defines, inter alia, the conditions for the performance of the student work and the conditions for the operation of the concessionaires in the intervention of this work. Student work is subject to specific conditions, which on the one hand are characterised by special benefits, and on the other hand certain restrictions to be imposed on the other labour market. The basic guide of the student work should be, and I therefore think that we must all agree that this work should not be hindered by the study, because it is all too often that students simply forget that their primary task is to study, but not to work. I support proposals that go this way to make student work, if possible, also an integral part of the training for the future profession. Personally, I have very positive experience with students who have worked on my previous job or in my previous job as students or as students, whether they have been doing vacation practice or working through a student service. At that time, they had the opportunity or opportunity to learn about the work process. And most of the time, it was very quick to find out who was really interested in the work, and who came to work just for money. It has also helped us, who are constantly employed, to choose new associates and many of these students or students would later become our coworker or coworker. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the solutions in the bill in this area, namely that 10% of the funding from concession fees by transferring parts of the students and students will be diverted to the public fund, from which scholarships will be financed after the law governing the scholarship. According to the amount of the concession, this money is expected to be about 800 million Slovenian tolars. Since the intervention activity is carried out as a public service, the proposed regulation provides for recognised costs of 45% of concession fees. In addition to reducing the amount of recognised costs, a new share of the concession fees is foreseen at the proposed 45 and will be allocated to the student organisation of Slovenia for the purpose of co-financing student and student study activities. In this way too - and I am sure of that - it will prevent the unjustifiable enrichment of some student services at the expense of the student work, rather than allowing that money to be spent or returned to the students. However, how some student organizations have the money they want under this law is a completely different story. Some of this we were able to watch last night on the national television show Target. The amendment extends the competence of the institution to provide to unemployed persons entitled to financial social assistance under social protection rules any employment and appropriate work under a commercial or copyright contract or to provide temporary or occasional humanitarian or other non-compulsory work that may last for a maximum period of 56 hours per month and is organised by an institution or in agreement with the institution by a non-profit non-governmental organisation. Such employment and work may also be offered by the institution to an unemployed person who is not entitled to financial assistance. The amendment of the law also abolishes monetary aid as a right from unemployment insurance. Money relief is already governed by another law, which is the law on social protection. However, the aim of the aid is to improve the social situation of persons who cannot afford minimum means of subsistence. With this change it is possible to enforce the right to financial social assistance only under one law, which is under the Social Protection Act. Thus, only one authority, which is also the most suitable to verify the income and property situation of a person exercising the right to financial social assistance. In our party, we are convinced that by improving social records, there will no longer be duplication and exploitation and accumulation of social rights from multiple sources, which has happened too often so far. And I am sure that this money will be able to be spent for more necessary purposes. The social partners agreed when they co-ordinated this law, and so it is also written in a bill or amendments to the law that the recipient of the monetary compensation should be obliged to accept the appropriate work under a commercial or copyright contract, as well as appropriate honorable, humanitarian or other similar work corresponding to one level of lower education. In the event of a rejection, the amount of the cash refund would have been temporarily reduced by 50%. However, the justification for refusing or rejecting such work shall also be assessed for recipients of a cash benefit in the case of unemployment in the light of the psychophysical capabilities set out in Article 17(1) of this Act and shall not be left to employees in the institution or to their opinions in the institution. In New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the legislative solutions related to the implementation of active employment policy measures. In doing so, it is necessary to state once again the fact that the solutions proposed by governments for the adoption of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have been harmonised among the social partners, and this agreement may signal that an active employment policy will also be implemented and will be successful. In New Slovenia, we stress in particular the responsibility of each individual for his or her employment. For us, any unemployed person who finds employment, the overall victory in terms of productivity, justice, state finances and long-term successful social insurance systems, because the closer we get to the goal of full employment, the easier we will be to ensure social security for those who, due to their youth or age, illness or disability, cannot work. All citizens will be able to enjoy greater prosperity if more people who are able to work get a job that will allow them to generate enough income for themselves first, for their families and finally for all those who are entitled to benefits and services from the social security system. The law also promotes the employment of young women, as the employment of the unemployed person, who replaces the person on maternity leave and leave for the care and protection of the child, will reduce the employer’s costs by returning social security contributions. The amendment of the law also provides for the reimbursement of contributions for the employment of an unemployed person under 26 years of age who is a first-time job seeker who has been registered at the institution for more than 12 months; and for the employment of a person over 55 years of age who has been registered at the institution for more than 24 months and for the employment of an unemployed person over 55 years of age who carries out a subsidised profession. The law also lays down the basis for including persons who have not yet become unemployed in active employment programmes but who have become permanently unnecessary in their work, or for whom appropriate analyses can be expected to prevent them from obtaining adequate employment in the long term. In this way, we will prevent new unemployment and, above all, allow people to remain active in employment and avoid the trauma and stress that unemployment brings. Whoever had to deal with an unemployed person in their own house knows what I'm talking about. The insurance of unemployed persons must be focused primarily on measures to ensure that the unemployed person is employed as soon as possible, and this law entails this. And there must be no indirect incentive that could make the unemployment status more attractive than the status of the employee, which unfortunately is happening too often. Solutions in the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act seem good and we will support them in Novi Slovenija. Whether solutions are premeditated or not, the question depends on how we view it. The fact is that the solutions have been coordinated with the social partners, and this tells us a lot in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, we would like to point out in our Group that the drafter of the bill has made a very simple and dry introduction to the law, as well as a description of the objectives and purposes pursued by the proposed law, irrespective of the fact that each article that has been tabled has its own explanation, he should give much more concrete attention to this in his introduction. With the proposal of this Act, the proposer wants to play a much more rigorous and substantial role in the search for and offer employment to unemployed persons of the Slovenian Employment Institute and, in particular, its individual exposures, to put in place a more flexible and effective mechanism, primarily through the implementation of the active employment policy measures of the individual target groups, by giving them the opportunity to carry out the intervention of work on the basis of concessions to others, for these tasks to authorised organisations that meet the conditions for this activity, as provided for in Law 6 and a number of new six articles forward, which also provide for the separation of part of the concession fee for the transfer of work to students and students in the public fund, which we welcome as a good solution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The bill strengthens the commitment of the job-seeker to take over the offered model and significantly strengthens the right to receive monetary compensation or financial social assistance, which, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group's conviction, with ineffective or under-effective professional and administrative supervision of the procedure and work of the employment institution and the authorised organisations that provide work on the basis of the concession granted - this control is required to be carried out in the first place by the Ministry responsible for the work, and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work, in this case, the path can be to even more than in individual cases already being dealt with by a sufficiently powerless job-seeker as a piece of bricks on the market you are using when you need it, or to reject it without personally when you are not needed. The fact is, what we find in our Group is that in recent times, it has been a lot too easy to evaluate job seekers, even if they are not prepared to take the job, to work, to be part-timers and so on. Whoever in life has faced the fact and the true content of this situation cannot behave that way, and that is why we must still have a great deal of understanding on this issue, when is the moment when you cannot put the job-seeker ahead of the fact - you want or don't want to leave. You are automatically forced to settle for meals on the one hand, and it is clear that through such an approach you can force unemployment to decrease in this way. Everything is nice and good, only that the measure and control are correct. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also welcome the final recognition of the right to regression for the annual leave of employees in public works, as this right is already, on a basic basis, enabled by the Labour Relations Act. This has been particularly pointed out by our Group of Members to the formation of this law, that this must be resolved by a literal entry into this law, irrespective of the fact that this is in fact a kind of violation of the basic and fundamental labour law that has been implemented so far. The proposal of this law confers a wide discretion on the Minister responsible for work, but the Minister takes a heavy responsibility for the whole situation in the labour market by his will or unwillingness; at least in the work covered by the provisions and the purpose of the employment law, unemployment insurance. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for dealing with it in the second reading and in the course of the examination, to the extent that the argument is sufficiently strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, in fact, I would expect a minister who is in charge of this area and should also be responsible for this area, actually with us today, because we have a general debate on a law that is not irrelevant. This is a novelty of the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, which is certainly necessary in the context of the situation in this area today. The fact is that in the context of an active employment policy, there have been many anomalies, especially employers, whether companies in the framework of the so-called public service, as well as state-owned enterprises, even those who exercise control over the implementation of this policy or specifically public works such as the employment agency, will be in breach of the legal provisions, which have been particularly detrimental to workers who have been involved in public works under the active employment policy. Because it is a very cheap labour force for employers in the first place. On the other hand, despite different legal provisions, public workers had to carry out all tasks, sometimes even more than others, regularly employed workers in the same company for substantially less money and other benefits arising from the core labour law itself. From this point of view, changes in public works are important; changes both within the framework of the Parental Protection Act adopted yesterday, like today's law, undoubtedly contribute to a greater activation of the active employment policy. They therefore aim to bring public workers closer to the other workers after their status. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, I drew the Minister's attention to the issue of public works at the beginning of this year. As I understand it, an active employment policy should allow unemployed people to re-engage in the labour process and increase their own competitiveness in the labour market. On the other hand, it is a matter of helping the state to make its own contribution to ensuring its social security. What is still controversial and which I have not seen during the amendments to this law is, in fact, a kind of employer's commitment, if he has an employee of a public employment position, after the latter's one-year working period, to work, or if he has only this priority in continuing regular employment with other potential candidates. This should, at least, be one of the objectives of this policy - an active employment policy. It is unfortunate, however, that the 2006 Annual Employment Programme is intended to provide only 10% of all participants involved in the public works with regular employment. You know, this is what is contrary to the objectives of active employment policy and public works within this policy. The current relocation from one record to another; that is what is worrying, and indeed that objective, which is also pursued by such an "active" employment policy. Only in order to be able to say that, at the beginning of the year, when programmes or integration into public works programmes are distributed, unemployment falls. These are not long-term measures; this should not lead to this active employment policy. Thus, it is again at the expense of workers when it comes to so-called risk or specific categories of workers, including workers over 50 years of age and 53 years of work, that employers extend the contract of work to a public worker after one year of work through public works and that they regularly employ another worker in a related or equal position. Here is the degradation of those workers who are involved in the public works project - and once again I will stress with significantly less money. In the context of public works, I would also like to point out financial resources, which are quite vaguely defined in the bill itself. While it is true that the items from which funds are drawn for public works programmes are different, the underlying funds under the 2007 budget do not increase, which would otherwise make sense in terms of amending legislation. It should be borne in mind that improvements, improvements in the direction of paid regression and annual leave for public workers are envisaged under this law. The next step in the new law is to tighten the working conditions. The government proposes that persons who refuse so-called appropriate work be threatened with being deleted from the list of unemployed, and that such a person, as a result, loses all rights under the law. And I'm gonna ask myself what's a good job. The government answers, quote: "A person who does not wish to be deleted must accept the work. After three months of unemployment, work for which up to one level of lower education is required is lower than that of the unemployed person. In the event that such a person is unemployed for 6 months or more, he or she must accept a job offered for which up to two levels of lower education are sufficient." It is a fact, and I therefore believe that most agree, that it has happened, that it is still happening, that the same unemployed have always rejected the job offered and that it is right to put more order or control into this topic. However, whether or not such a measure will be taken, it is a very restrictive measure, discriminatory, and even more so, among the unemployed are dominated by women, first-time job seekers and young people. Whether this novelty is also stimulating for this category of job seekers. Now, I'm just going to give you a case of practice, so let's say lawyers, economists, sociologists, in short, first-time job seekers, the saddest of them in the field of social affairs, they're going to have to take the job of secretaries, traders. Once again, I will stress the fact that for 2006 it is planned that only 10% of public workers will be employed on a regular basis. And a question that has also been raised within the framework of the State Council. To the extent that the rate of work below the level of education is rejected by the recipient of the cash refund, the remuneration shall be reduced by 50% for a period of two months. What if the worker doesn't get paid? There are few of these cases in practice, unfortunately. When a worker, not on his own fault, refuses to work because of failure to meet the obligations of the employers and still loses 50% of the financial compensation. Unfortunately, the government's response was not satisfactory. So-called bad employers are not supposed to apply as job providers, but, who checks that out, I'm interested. In practice, workers do not get paid when they leave the institution. I would like to highlight another issue, also within the framework of an active employment policy, which this amendment does not include. It is a programme of retraining or retraining and acquisition of additional knowledge or education. You know, the problem that arises in society is the quota of funds. When these funds are spent, unfortunately those who would like to engage, I am talking about first-time job seekers, young unemployed people who do not have such an education as to be actively involved in the labour market, then unfortunately these people are out of a position to be included in the retraining or supplementary education programme, even within three years waiting for such a programme or, in fact, what the state in the law is basically allowing them. Within the framework of all four objectives, principles and main solutions enshrined in the law, the Government also mentions improving the efficiency of the work of the Slovenian Employment Institute. In fact, I have observed only and only between the measures: they will increase the number of advisers. In the context of internal restructuring, one consultant to 320 unemployed persons is expected to reach one consultant to 150 unemployed by 2008. Does this mean that the government also foresees an increase in the unemployed? And I do not believe that the mere increase in the number of consultants within the Employment Service is the measure that will contribute to the greater efficiency of the work of this institution. I believe you know that all those who have ever sought assistance from the Employment Service will agree with me if I say that this is an extremely closed system of work, including counsellors and advisers, which is based in the vast majority only on operational work. It would be useful to make changes to the work itself, planning and looking for employment opportunities within the institution in pursuit of the stated objective set by the Government. However, I do not believe that the creation of the so-called employment plan should be the greatest achievement of the employment offices or individual advisors or advisors. Will the poor efficiency of the work of the institutions be increased by the new organisational structure of the Management Board of the Institute, which increases the number of government representatives? What exactly is the role or role of the employment agency? Another important amendment is envisaged under today’s or this new law. The government will address the specificity that has been introduced into our system in comparison with other European countries. Of course, I'm talking about student work, and I'm wondering, I'm hoping to get a follow-up -- unfortunately, there are no representatives of the ministry here, nor is the minister here -- answers to questions raised or dilemmas raised. How will concessions be awarded to student workers? The bill provides for the legal provision of recognised costs to organisations or employers who provide temporary and occasional work to students or students. Part of the concession fee for the intervention of student work will be channelled to the public fund, which is intended to be awarded to scholarships, is those 10% paid by the employer to the student service following the current regulation. Minister Drobnič explains that the increased number of scholarships means an increase in funding to cover the costs of the study and because this also means that the study or student work becomes a link between study and economy - does this mean limiting the right to choose work, free choice of work of students and students, of course? Does this mean that student services are being phased out? I'm curious, I'm asking, I'm hoping to get answers. Does the Minister stress that the student work should not be hampered by the study and, if possible, that the composition should be part of the training? There is also a very clear tendency to set a very restrictive ceiling for working hours of student work per week, that is to say the work that students can do. I am afraid that in this case there is some kind of covert restriction and gradual suspension of student work, which is actually the ability to understand also from the opening presentation, which is written in the bill itself - compared to speaking, of course, with other comparable or uncomparable, in short with other countries. I would like to highlight one single point. The naked fact is that Slovenia is not becoming a friendly working environment, I speak, of course, from the workers' point of view. The government strategy is to increase competitiveness, reduce labour costs and tighten labour legislation in terms of reducing or limiting workers' rights. Also, the present bill, hand to heart, follows these guidelines. In all of the related areas, whether this health insurance, hospital benefits or not, at one of the previous meetings, we have adopted a collective agreement law where the employer can set whole lower standards for the worker than laid down by the statutory law, i.e. the Labour Relations Act. In short, there is unfortunately a deterioration in the situation for workers in all related areas in favour of profit. In the Slovenian National Party, first of all, we expect answers to the questions raised or some of the dilemmas raised at the proposal of this Act - I hope we will get them. However, it would certainly be reasonable and wise to supplement the law in the form of amendments, and in the Slovenian National Party we will certainly draw up some amendments for the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group will support the law on amendments and additions to the law on employment and unemployment insurance as a suitable basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure, but of course there is something to be said about it. We have carefully reviewed the proposal for a law which, according to the proposal, is intended to encourage the unemployed, for example, more activity in the search for employment. In doing so, we are not sure that this objective will be achieved by making the situation of the unemployed worse. Expecting an unverified submenu that the majority of the unemployed are not seeking or seeking employment, which can be seriously doubted, since we are Slovenians, if we only have a job. We are also not sure that the law will reduce the scope of work to black. The proposal sets out the fundamental purpose of amending the law, which is intended to improve the efficiency of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, is not sufficiently elaborated in legal solutions, in this sense we do not find the necessary changes in the organisation and content of the operation of the institution. In this regard, let me mention that we have spent billions on training workers through employment institutions in recent years, that many instructors and teachers have earned large fees, but we do not have data on the results in this sense of knowing whether the billions invested have produced a result through employment for the second job of the unemployed. With regard to the intention to implement the European Employment Strategy, we want to say that it is already being implemented in the form of a high level of flexibility of employment, since we are then in the fifth place among the 25 countries of the European Community. Of course, this flexibility is primarily for the benefit of employers and much less for the benefit of employees, mentioning only the rise in fixed-term employment contracts and the easier dismissal of workers. The aim of aligning the situation of persons involved in public works programmes with other employees is probably an illusion that cannot be realized in real life. In doing so, we welcome the solution that employees in the field of public works would have the right to an annual allowance or regression. The intention is to arrange the records, is positive and realistic and we support them. For there is the fact on the palm that without proper records and data on where we are and where to go, we will not be able to go. In view of the above, we expect the proposer to reconsider the second reading of the law and to identify the solutions for the purpose and the main objectives of the law that he wants to achieve. In doing so, we would point out that we do not agree, for example, with the solution that after six months of unemployment the employee must take over the job offered even if it requires a skill lower than that of the job seeker. We could have demanded that 50 years ago, when after the war and many more later did anything to survive, and today it is probably unnecessary and not necessarily ours. For this reason, the termination of the rights of the unemployed person, if you refused such employment, is also our non-replacement. Our Group welcomes the envisaged solutions in the field of active employment policy, and we believe that this law will achieve its purpose here if more is done to prevent work in black and the labour inspectorate will carry out a more thorough task in this regard. The Group also welcomes the solution whereby part of the concession fees will be intended to increase the funding for scholarships, which are now practice for about 25% of students, while the past has recorded more than 50% of the practice of scholarshiping all students. That's what we think is a good solution. It would not harm the law to define in some way a blacklist of employers. We know that employers are very different from employees, and from this point of view they also act so differently that we know good and bad employers and what kind of blacklist would do no harm and could contribute in the long term to having blacklisted employers less opportunities to get the necessary workers while the better ones in the labour market are sufficient. Finally, I must say that our parliamentary group hopes that the proposaler will take into account the other shortcomings of the law and the dilemmas that are open in the formulation of the final solutions, today in this Chamber, when preparing for a second hearing. In any case, it is important that the starting point for the drafting of this law has been aligned with the Economic Social Council to this extent, so that we can say that we must continue and also make an appropriate improvement and then adopt it in order to achieve more together in the area of reducing unemployment and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. First of all, I regret that in such an important marriage, the document is not in the Chamber of the Minister, there is no one in the Chamber of the Ministry, and therefore I will be surprised, and I too will be extremely brief, because in front of me, Master Majda Potter has already told almost everything on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, so there is nothing to add. When I listened to this presentation by the parliamentary groups, however, I felt and saw that this law was not right at the moment and that all the parliamentary groups, except one, were somehow building it. This is another evidence of what laws, documents are put into the procedure of the Ministry of Labour or its Minister. I personally cannot be satisfied and optimistic, especially in the sense that a step forward will really be taken in Slovenia, especially in terms of employment. While the law is written in the introduction and the objectives are written in order, I must say that the paper brings everything and those who do not know the matter and who are not aware of it may be above the objectives, although the introduction is satisfied and enthusiastic, but those who have read the law according to the articles can see that the articles do not go in the sense of the introduction, but rather the opposite. I think that the law is primarily aimed at sanctioning, forcing and not in the direction of incentives and solutions for employment, which we know are one of the most important segments in our country. In Social Democracy, as I have already said, we are dissatisfied with this law, and in some ways I myself can be disappointed, and I hope that in the second reading, however, we will correct the law to this extent with amendments, with our proposals, which will go primarily towards a small man and one who does not have a job today that does not have the basic means of survival. It is true that there are some novelties in the law, and especially those that go in line with European standards, but these are things that we have been familiar with lately, but not particularly in the sense that we live in Slovenia, we have our own problems that only need to be solved in our own way. I am absolutely unable to support this law, as it is now, and I hope that we will be able to find common sense in order to correct the law in the second and third readings, that it will go primarily for the good of the people, for the good of those who do not have a job, in the best way that the younger people, those who do not yet have a job, students, will see a perspective in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I will, because this is a general debate and since I have almost no time left, very briefly I am trying to say that, for the first time, I have, above all, an ambivalent attitude towards this proposal. It is a kind of solution that is good and that I support, but there are also some that are causing me serious concerns. Let me just reduce it very briefly. In the Coalition Treaty, we committed ourselves to trying to eliminate all abuses, irregularities, etc., in particular with regard to the exploitation of social rights that lead to a culture of crime or work rejection, and also with regard to the abuse of student work. However, it seems to me that the purpose of the law is now to make mistakes, in particular or almost exclusively in this direction, so that it prohibits restricting it from encouraging some major development. If we look at what it says as the basic purpose of this law, this is written by the Ministry or the Minister, it says that the fundamental purpose is to increase the efficiency of the employment institution. If that's the basic purpose, then it's a mistake in my judgment. The fundamental purpose should be to regulate the area of social security, protection, prepare people for new employment, seek new jobs, new programmes, develop and so on, not particularly restricting and effective. It can make the institution effective, but it can effectively implement something that will not be good, and the efficiency itself will certainly not be enough. And with regard to student work or work through student service, I mention that I am also concerned about many abuses, about irregularities and so on, but I should not first be on the wallpaper restricting student work, that it is a wrong question whether a student should work first or study first, and the answer to study. Yeah, let him study, but first we have to let him do it so he can study. Now a lot of work is a prerequisite for him to be able to study.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Of course, probably every government wants to do the job of reducing unemployment in the country when it comes to performing. In particular, in the Republic of Slovenia. This law, which is a first reading, needs to be supported and brought into second reading. The fact is that individuals have considerable concerns about individual provisions and that we want to make some changes to the content of the law in coalition coordination. However, when we talk about unemployment, I must make it clear and loudly in this place that, directly as a Member coming from the Maribor region that we face this problem every day, and as my colleague spoke earlier, Mr. Vili Rezman, who comes from a municipality that currently ranks first in the number of unemployment, the municipality of Maribor, according to the latest information on the second, if I am not mistaken, and the municipality of Pesnica on the third, we can find that we are coming from such a pool where we have a social and even the surface of the economic crisis and disaster. I must frankly say that some of the approaches of the previous governments, and also these, are good, in particular approaches that in some ways reduce and narrow down this disaster that gives us, this is a social disaster, a social crisis that makes it possible to work mainly through public works. However, if we are looking at the draft law today - I am very pleased that Minister Drobnič also wrote in this law that all employees or workers employed through public works also belong to the annual leave. Thank God that at least if they didn't have it so far to at least get it, because those workers who work in public works are workers who have the lowest special benefits who do such or otherwise work to survive themselves, to survive their family, their family members, and it is fair and fair that they also deserve a compensation for their work or so-called holiday regress. However, since we all know that this amount of this holiday regression will not be so great that a simple worker could afford to go on vacation with his family, but for those living in such an environment, every tolar in the family or family member coming from such or other address is good. But I would like to, because I am beginning, given that I am coming from this Maribor environment, to draw attention to one another's great problem, which, as a member of Parliament, both in the streets and in the office of the Member from day to day, I face every day. This is the first job for young people when they graduate from college when they graduate from high school or vocational school. I can see for myself that we have a brain drain in these regions, including Prekmurje and Koroška. Young people who go to studies in both Garz and Ljubljana are no longer returning to our environment and are no longer our perspective for the further development of this region. Here I would point out to both the government and the minister himself that for the second reading he foresees options, in what way he can also see through the employment agency the possibilities of subsidising traineeships for certain professions. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If someone graduated from a law school in Maribor with the best rating, and takes two years to get an internship and doesn't get it in the municipality of Maribor itself or in this region to focus on the city, then it's a disaster. Excuse me. Parents educate, school, pay, bring their child to a profession, university education, and then this child or an adult, whatever, without opportunity and opportunities in our region. My heart hurts, as I meet young, prospective, including scientists, young researchers, assistants fleeing our region every day. They run because they don't get the chance and because they don't get the chance to stay in the region, to explore there, to get a job there, and to create a home, a family and something else. This needs to be pointed out, and I call on the Minister and also the Government, to the extent possible within this law, the law on amendments and additions to the law on employment and unemployment insurance, to add some provisions to the case of first employment. We are witnesses to what challenges the Government has faced in the Republic or the State of France when adopting such or different laws. I am sure that some of our acquaintances, friends, citizens, citizens would be happy if this government would also provide and give the opportunity and opportunity to make a real job through such a law, at least for some segments of professions. Those who follow some programmes can be found out, as I have already said here today, that in the area of university-educated people, there is no law in the field of employment. If we go to the field of professors, teachers, for example the Slovenian language, some have been educated, graduated from the Slovenian language, prepared to study or for professors at a secondary or any other school, primary school, for teachers of the Slovenian language, but these jobs in the region or the wider area are not received for a year or two. The Ministry of Education has some programmes that subsidise traineeships in the case, as I have now stated, concerning certain professions. This case, which is at the Ministry of Education, would have to be extended by such legislation as we have today on the agenda, especially by professions. And here the government and the ministry have the opportunity to provide additional financial resources through the Fund or the establishment of the Fund, so that those of our young people will have the opportunity and the opportunity to do the internship and thus get their first job. Even when they get a traineeship or a first job, the employer is the one who evaluates his work, and many employers would decide for a good staff, for a good young expert to also keep him in the company, properly stimulates, stimulates, and thus gives him the opportunity to stay in our place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Rezman responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. Mr Kangler spoke and I think it is right to point out the importance of public works in reducing unemployment rates. Some municipalities have been very able to make use of this instrument, and this really means an important contribution to improving the social situation in a particular environment. I would just like to correct some information that speaks, among other things, of my congregation, because it has been stated that it is the congregation with the greatest degree of unemployment. Indeed, in 1998, the unemployment rate was over 33%, and in the last six years, seven years it was the municipality that had the most reduced unemployment rate in Slovenia and reduced it by over 50%. However, with regard to unemployed Slovenian professors, I have a concrete proposal. We can hire everyone in the government and in Parliament, and there will not be enough for all the bad texts to be fixed in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! It is right that this law is here at first reading today. And it is right, I thank the representative, I think the ministry has now attended, because I thought it was a little rude when we are all quietly supporting this law and we want to improve it for a second reading, and none of the preparers are with us. Please, ma'am, thank you for coming and passing it on to the minister and the others. We speak here to make our proposals, support this law and make proposals to make it better in the second reading. And I hope they read at least a tape at the Ministry because it's not connected. Or do we want to be populist to people who look at us when they look at us? This is a very rude attitude of the government, even in the first reading. The objectives, principles and main solutions of the proposed law - I fully agree with them, and I am asking questions that I will not get answers to today, but that the preparers may come up with. The aim is to improve the efficiency of the part of the Employment Barrier of the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe, I'm just curious about the simple question - how? How will the efficiency of the work of the Slovenian Institute of Employment improve? Or will there be a higher number of employees? But? I can't see the reason. I agree to implement the European Employment Strategy. I couldn't agree more. From here on, I expect the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to give an immediate signal, a message to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ask him what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in those countries that have acquired the so-called transitional period of employment. Let the foreign ministry say what they have done to the French, Italian, German, who have gathered, I don't know, seven years of right not to employ EU citizens, including Slovenians, and we are hiring Slovaks, Czechs and so on. I agree that this is the goal, only what has been done to this end. Equalize the situation of persons involved in the public works programme. I absolutely agree with you, but this law is very confusing to see what will happen. I make a concrete proposal, and I hope that it will be taken because it is an unfinished law! Yes, work is work, if it is a public worker, is employed, works, regardless of whether it is a public worker, so it must have all the rights that every worker has, must have social insurance, health insurance, the corresponding proportional part of the regression must have, to be taken into account and that is right, I am for that too. Another time. How many of these critical categories of workers and workers are actually doing equivalent quality work in an employee's company, i.e. working in the same way, the employee has a salary of 200,000, and the public worker gets 50,000, and he is doing equivalent work, and so far this right has not been exercised by the employee who has been employed through public works. When, for example, this company is looking for a worker for that job, and it takes a new one, and the one who worked through public works has worked well for 50,000 instead of 200,000, and it throws it back to public work. I agree. In this area, public works must be equalized or almost equivalent to all parts, regardless of whether they work for six months, the relative part of each worker also belongs to workers employed through public works. I'm on my way. I am at Article 7, I would be even more rigorous to finally make order with all those speculators who "seek a job but pray God not to find it". There are many of them, I personally meet them, they come later, they're late, he apologizes for being sick and so on, and he says, "Just give me confirmation that I'm not fit for this job." And the same is true: If you refuse work - end, goodbye and lose all rights. However, precisely in this area, the law is incomplete, because there are no specific provisions, and in what way the employer can rightly determine that someone is malicious because of laziness, because of which I do not know what he has refused. But there can be injustice, among the ten cases one can come who can't actually do some work, and the employer will say, "Yes, away, we're just going to stop this now because he hasn't accepted the job." It's missing and I'm warning you, and I'd like to ask if this part of it has been added to it. Of course, we will all probably be amended, but the government will probably have to do something on its own. In education. I agree that someone must also accept a job for which a lower education is required than the actual education that this person has. However, I wonder whether the two-stage transition is justified or not. I do not know what the situation on the market is, but if there is no critical unemployment on the market, I agree that someone has to take a job that is the same as his education or the most - this is our proposal and I think we are going to amend it - or at most for one degree less than two. It seems to me that at this point there is not such a crisis situation, such a crisis situation with us, that we should degrade someone, because, after all, it is true, I think it is also a bit insulting and especially affecting a person who is a university graduate and, not least, if he has to, he must accept it, for example, - but I know that because work is not looking for education, work is work, every work is honorable, only that one survives. But as long as it is possible for university-educated people to be employed where such personnel are missing, with their education or with one degree lower, it seems to me that it is wrong, even though we may sometimes have to accept some other work. Last but not least, public work cleaning roads, but every job is honorable. I would add a comment to Article 26 - I have already mentioned this, I apologize, this is the justification of the rejection of work. Finally, I would like to say that, in fact, there must be an article added to it or in this law, which would give more emphasis to more control, more control. More supervision is needed in the work of the Employment Service and in the employment of unemployed people. I think it's this control and the office, and it's desperate at all. There are some people who actually crawl through their fingers, and I'm not going to say that because of the negligence of the workers in the institution, they crawl through their fingers, overlook them, etc., just because of the lack of control, the lack of control, the lack of control, the lack of records. And if in all the laws I'm talking about so-called electronic literacy, where everything with all the data -- not least, this is the last time I've said, "great brother is looking at you." But if we are already at it, let us also take control, control and order in this area to know who is actually justified, who is not justified, not to let some slip through their fingers and actually suffer injustice. That's how much I'd have to say very honestly about this first reading. Some amendments will be tabled by the Slovenian National Party, and I hope that the government will also adopt a number of well-meaning advice on our part and will reform the law itself until the second reading. So what I'm saying is that I'm about to go through first and secondly see what's come out of everything that's been said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Respectable. The new law on employment and unemployment insurance may not bring major substantive changes at the time of the rapid review, but this is not yet the case. Amendments to the law affect a large part of the coalition contract, but at the same time the changes will touch a wider circle of people. Let me highlight some of the major changes here and add my vision. The proposal explicitly lays down the powers of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to provide employment to unemployed persons entitled to financial social assistance under social protection rules, any employment and appropriate work under a commercial or copyright contract, or to provide temporary or occasional humanitarian or other contractual work that lasts for a maximum period of 56 hours per month and is organised by an institution or in agreement with the institution by a non-profit non-governmental organisation. Such employment and work may also be offered by the institution to an unemployed person who is not entitled to financial social assistance. The organisation of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment shall comply with the law on institutions. The next important and in particular the current amendment concerns the field of student work and scholarship. Part of the allocation of concession fees to students and students will focus on the budget scholarship fund, in particular for the deficit professions. On the basis of data on the level of the facsimile income from the 2004 concession fees, it is estimated that the annual amount of the concession fees to be allocated to the grants will be approximately SIT 800 million. Assuming it was a scholarship of 50,000 SITs, they would cheer up 1,334 students each month. The remaining half of the funds, which represent the difference between the revenues from concession activities and the recognised costs of organisations that provide temporary and occasional work to students and students, are still intended for the functioning of the university's student organisation, the university's independent higher education institution, the local community or the interesting forms of integration of students and students and can be used for various purposes in the implementation of their activities. In Slovenia, the work of students is organised in a special way, as they know only in countries that originated from Yugoslavia. In our student work system, comparatively, the biggest feature in organising student work is the amount of compensation that student services charge to the employer for their services and is 10% of the value of the work done. There are limits in the European Union countries regarding the amount of part of the maximum wage. More research carried out around the world in recent years has shown that the proportion of half-employed students has been steadily growing over the last twenty years and that such work has had negative consequences because of their poor success or their failure to perform their exams in a timely manner. Following the results of these studies, 15 hours of work per week have no special effect, and at 20 hours or more, success has already been significantly affected. It is right for the student work to be maintained, but we must by no means allow the exploitation of this system. This system is being exploited by those who are most struggling to maintain the current situation. Good students are certainly not able to work in addition to regular work every day, but "eternal students" in connoisseurs, which are now provided with different ways to extend the study, need to say or work or study. I believe that such situations should be addressed even more strictly - the return of the scholarship, the payment of student homes, etc. Not to mention late interest. If student work were to be maintained during the holidays and perhaps to a lesser extent during the year, especially in cooperation between universities and the economy, we could say that we killed more flies at the same time. The amendment places great emphasis on granting, terminating and withdrawing concessions to organisations or employers wishing to provide employment, work or to provide work to another employer. In the Republic of Slovenia there are currently 76 student services with 169 businesses. For the intervention of work to students and students, 10% of the concession fee and 2% of the additional concession fee shall be charged and calculated from the invoiced remuneration of the students and students for the work done. 2% of the additional concession fee is entirely intended for the construction of student homes and technical equipment of universities. Of 10% of the concession fee, students continue to be granted flat-rate costs for their business and the rest of the funds should be allocated to the functioning of student organisations, universities, the independent higher education institution, local communities or the interesting forms of integration of students and students. The revenue of student services is the difference between actual costs and flat-rate costs. In 2004 about 8.2 billion sets of concession fees were recognised for student services. It can be calculated from the concession fee that employers paid so much for their student work in 2004 that at least 25 thousand jobs with an average gross salary of 300,000 siti would be sufficient. On this account, some jobs are not regularly employed by employers, but are carried out by students. It is also often easier to work, which would be suitable even for some of the more difficult employees. Abuse is one of the main problems of student work. It can be a classic black job, it can be a job on the basis of another person's passport, like the one doing the job. It can be a fictitious remittance of money, but often also a failure to pay off a student who has done his job and so on. If you ask someone what a student service is, there are often answers: a place where a student sends a job to students or a money launderer. So there's a systemic error. The law also provides for changes in the professional and administrative supervision of the work of the institution and the authorised organisations or employers, as well as the purpose of the use of funds. And to close the debate on student scholarships. I believe that the situation in this area would be improved by two mechanisms. For the first time, the suspension or conversion of student services, and thus the money obtained, are allocated to the scholarship fund. And a second time. Students’ organisations should take large amounts of money, which is now being used recklessly and not transparently. From this account, a student home would be built, an additional scholarship would be provided, a portion of the money would be allocated to students and students with disabilities, and probably some part of this huge and unsupervised meal could be allocated to individual colleges. Let me talk briefly about the other changes. The system of public works is changing so that persons involved in public works are provided with a regression for annual leave, which I think is the last moment, this matter should have been settled long ago! However, the remuneration of participants in public works is determined on the basis of the minimum wage, so that, compared to monetary social assistance, it is fairer to pay for the work done. The share of the remuneration of participants provided by the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia shall also be determined according to the level of unemployment in each area. Secondly, the amendment proposes to fix the amount of the minimum and maximum monetary compensation as a percentage of the minimum wage or triple of such a fixed minimum remuneration and to harmonise the monetary compensation with the Life Needs Price Index. Thirdly, money aid is abolished as a right to unemployment insurance, thus preventing the accumulation of social rights from multiple sources. Money social assistance is already governed by the Social Protection Act. However, the aim of the aid is to improve the social situation of persons who cannot afford minimum means of subsistence. Fourthly, an unemployed person may be offered one level less suitable employment after three months from the registration of unemployment records if there are no unemployed persons for whom such employment would be appropriate. After six months of registration of unemployed persons and if there are no unemployed persons for whom such employment has been appropriate, two lower employment rates may be offered as appropriate. This change will encourage the unemployed to seek employment more actively. This change will not bring about such a revolution as some biased media - graduate lawyers, economists, engineers and so on - will not pick apples and strawberries as mentioned. This change will bring all those who expect such a salary at first employment, which some have after 15 or 20 years in the same job. The change will help to reduce the number of those who are satisfied with social assistance, which brings many benefits in the current system. Here I should also mention that the two-month refund is reduced by 50% if the insured person refuses to work properly under the contract or under the contract of sale of the works, appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or other similar work, which lasts for a maximum of 56 hours per month and is organised by the institution or in agreement with the institution by an unprofitable non-governmental organisation. This is also a matter of increasing the activity of job seekers. Let me mention another positive change to conclude the debate. Pay attention to Article 36 of the Law. The change is aimed at promoting the employment of young women, as the employment of the unemployed person, who replaces the person on maternity leave and leave for the care and protection of the child, will reduce the costs for the employer even after the return of the social security contribution. The return of contributions is also envisaged for the employment of an unemployed person under 26 years of age who is a first-time job seeker who has been registered at the institution for more than 12 months and for the employment of a person over 55 years of age who has been registered at the institution for more than 24 months and for the employment of an unemployed person over 55 years of age who has a surplus job. Thus, the law also encourages employers to become more actively involved in the labour market. The proposed novel brings about active changes and its adoption will be a real indicator that reforms are being implemented and that they are positive. Of course, I'd be happy to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I have seen many times so far, some think in a way that the unemployed are something that they do not need to be, that they are the people who, on their own account, have landed at the employment institution alone. That they are people who have agreed because they do not want to work in the unemployment register, or that they may even be removed from the unemployment register and are not actually among the unemployed, even though they do not have work. All legislative interventions also go in this direction, in order to tighten criteria and punish, but they are punished on average, not to find a way to punish those who abuse this system, and so would be. Rather than helping the unemployed to find employment, we really want to force them to find a job, to force them to take a job, even if it is not appropriate. And if they don't, well, they won't be unemployed, they won't be unemployed on record, and they'll be out of work. Just before, I heard a comparison or discussion about how good students are just studying. Yes, those who have money, or those who have parents to pay for their tuition and studies. These will be less and less in our country, and we'll get our tuitions to the surface. The point of this debate was, the good students are studying and the lazy are also working. I don't understand that very well. When we talk about this law, let me touch first of all Article 26, although I am aware that this is a general discussion, but this article is particularly eye-to-eye. The current Article states that the insured person shall cease to be entitled to a financial compensation if, of course, he refuses adequate employment, or by acting on behalf of the employer, or he or she rejects the appropriate temporary or occasional paid work. This is now a law in force. In the new law, the new indent will replace the new one in which it will read, "refuse adequate or appropriate employment", I stress, adequate employment, "or by its behaviour causes the employer's rejection of employment" - the difference between adequate and appropriate employment we know, these are the levels of education. And when I read the explanation of what is written in the law, everything else is written in the explanation, which contains this article and the speeches on why the criterion of appropriate decreases to the appropriate one, and this is not recorded in the explanation of this article. And I propose that the Ministry in absentia do so when it proposes that, in the second reading, this law be dealt with in substance and also adopted. Well, there's quite a bit of superficiality to it. And when we talk about flexibility, about reforms and about the so-called flexible labour market, I am afraid that we are thinking first or foremost about it, but it is very uncomfortable to speak to those who are not, but because the voice from this Parliament is probably heard - thank you for the warning, Mr Sok. Are you done? Good. Thank you. And we are talking about the flexibility of the labour market, we are probably talking first or foremost about how it is easier to forgive employees and workers and less about how to re-engage them. But let me give you an example of the practice I've been following. When we talk about the flexibility of the labour market, many imagine that it will be easier to forgive people, sometimes by electronic communication, even in the office of the President of the State, Dr. Janez Drnovska. But, the good example is, the President, in terms of flexibility, also because he is re-employing the same people, but this is proof that there is so-called structural unemployment in our country, when you do not actually have adequate staff who would have a suitable education. And this is Slovenia's biggest problem at this point in terms of unemployment. We have the unemployed, but they have no adequate education, no suitable experience for each job, and therefore they do not get a job. But since this is the case, we will change the law and write that it does not matter to refuse proper employment if he refuses proper employment, loses his record or loses his compensation. Thus, the criteria are exacerbated, the flexibility of the labour market is released mainly in the case of forgiveness, and more is done on the employment side.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	I give my word to Ambassador Ljubo Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, the law we are talking about today, the law on employment and unemployment insurance, is certainly one of the laws that interferes with the normative organisation of the labour market and social policy in Slovenia with the ultimate aim of increasing the welfare of Slovenia. When we talk about ensuring the well-being of Slovenia, we are certainly also talking about ensuring the well-being of each individual of us. And given that we want to achieve prosperity through a comprehensive approach to action today, we can see, as has been the case in practice and in the individual legal texts under consideration in this Parliament, in a few cases at this meeting and in previous meetings, that, of course, we do not approach the problem in a comprehensive way; so, through systemic approaches in various areas, which would all lead to prosperity in Slovenia, of course. To all known, in fact, the failure of this government to try to regulate the government service, which would regulate the concept of government reform for development, which would bring conceptual solutions in almost all areas, i.e. when it emerges today as a basic strategy for the development of Slovenia, but it is very partial to implement this strategy. I would, of course, like to quote two statements from the Minister in recent times. This is a statement in which it speaks that, of course, through the new laws it introduces from its field, it is primarily trying to introduce less sanctioning and more encouragement. And the second statement is that it expects that, on the basis of such an approach in Slovenia, it will be possible to create seven to ten thousand jobs. Of course, to the soberness of these statements, the Secretary-General of the Employers' Association, Mr Samo Hribar Milič, who says that he does not know on what basis such a forecast is predicted, because from it known data would be or is expected to be a trend in the opposite direction. However, when we talk about stimulation rather than sanctioning, of course, it is necessary to draw attention here again to the provisions that say that the new definition of appropriate employment will introduce into the legal text, that it is possible for someone who is being brought back to work to prescribe work after three months for one lower level of education and after six months two lower levels of education. Of course, I wonder when I am talking about Slovenia, as a knowledge-based society as Slovenia, which will focus on human resources a key development option, how it is possible in the labour market to understand such a measure. Such a measure, which would motivate people to engage in educational processes, certainly not. And if today we are monitoring that the number of young people unemployed with a high level of education which is increasing, of course this concept of approach is still completely incomprehensible in this light. And let me put my thinking out on the part of employers. In view of such a measure, employers will not be interested in having two lower levels of employment already in the tender, in demand for jobs, because they will know very clearly that there are applications at the employment institution, which they will have to, if they do, for example VII. the level of education also accepted by the post to be awarded for the V level of education. And this also means that they will be paid for the V level of education, which would mean for employers that the burdens of work will be reduced in their cost structure, but not at the expense of the job being properly paid, but at the expense of the service being significantly higher than the price of this work. And when we talk about flexibility, which is passed on as a kind of stable system from European countries, it is also concerned that these flexibilitys are not tolerated on the basis of the experience of good practices from those countries where they speak of safe flexibility. I strongly support the fact that the government, together with the unions, has seen concepts in Scandinavian countries, but I regret the fact that there are no solutions to this bill anywhere in these concepts. When I talk about flexibility, it means not only flexibility to forgive, but clear answers to where new jobs are created and produced. It should be clearly answered to the question of how a system of high social security will be ensured, i.e. income security also for those who lose jobs and, of course, that we will evaluate them as those who want to be in the institution, but not that they want to work, of course, I find such an approach in the direction of the proposer of this law inappropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the policy and attitude of this government and the ministry towards an active employment policy, which must be the third measure in terms of ensuring safe flexibility. So an active employment policy, which must be based on the right and duty of the unemployed person to establish and employ, i.e. to employ. As we follow the explanations to Article 2, the applicant shall abolish the fundamental right of any unemployed person to be included in an active employment policy programme. According to the proposal, the actual number of measures included in the APZ, the content, the extent to which the active employment policy measures are implemented, depends on the resources provided in the budget. And if we add to this what happened both in the 2005 budget rebalancing and in the draft budget or the budgets adopted for 2006, 2007, we see that in these areas the funds are shrinking. An active employment policy with this law no longer becomes a fundamental right but will depend on the resources in the budget. In the budget, however, we are reducing resources and wondering how this condition of safe flexibility will also be met. And I expect that, in the context of the debate after today, we will receive substantial changes to this law when we come to the second reading, because otherwise I would not want this law to be in the Slovenian public and among those who are today or who will be able to become unemployed, a message that this law will make life even more difficult. I recently wrote to the minister and asked him for a comment and perhaps solutions in view of the situation that is taking place at our end, related to Ferroterm, Merinka, Vesno. In the response I received, it was not possible to see any conceptual solutions, incentives to how those who would lose their jobs at this end would, of course, quickly reach opportunities for re-employment, which once again convinced me of the lack of the concept of employment and the possibility of employment. Let us add to this a variety of structural unemployment, a different regional distribution that should be specifically addressed. These are all the shortcomings of this law, as one of the laws that I believe should be an integral part of a package, a package of compatible solutions in the Employment Act, the Social Protection Act, the Grant Act, etc. I therefore expect that we will be able to complete the text of this law further so that the statutes will indeed be an integral part of the development strategy of Slovenia, because the reform strategy of this government is certainly no longer possible as serious documents and as a starting point for further solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you, Ambassador Germich, for your discussion. However, I invite the Member of the Parliament, Dr Slavko Gabra, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! I think that such a difficult topic as we are dealing with today shows a thorough consideration and I welcome that we have taken this step by step. I hope this will also bring improvements to the text of the law at the end of the story. The Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act in Slovenia, as in other European countries, is likely to have many more discussions in the decade ahead. The Sapir report commissioned by the European Union makes it very clear that different approaches are possible to enter these issues. I do not hide myself in agreeing at least with the basic message of the recent journey across Europe organised by the government along with the unions. They went to the right places. The Nordic model also says Sapiro, the most promising model they are trying to find in Europe a way to combine, how to connect security and flexibility. I think it is necessary to find a way in this discussion to cross borders between different political options and the two elements of this pencil, which are most commonly used in English, to really take. To me, Madam Secretary of State, it seems that in what we have before us, there is considerable emphasis and therefore also an improperly understood Nordic model, one part of these two. We're very interested in adaptability. We're very much betting on flexibility. But we are not prepared to talk seriously about safety as a condition for greater flexibility. Beck pointed out in a very well-known book on risk societies that people are willing to take risks, that they are willing to be flexible, if they know that when they find it difficult, when they slip, not because they are speculators, but because they are coming around Slovenia to bankruptcy factories, not because they are employed by speculators who are not working, but because they are unable to find niche on the world market, in which you can be successful to find shelter, help from others. These others must perform, we others must act in the form of a country that must ensure that people are able to participate in programmes that will enable them either to retrain, to seek new education and to be included in fields where they can believe that they will find a job in due course. Both approaches must be working together and there must be no other, one that speaks only of security in words, while the first, specifically, in the articles of law, in the measures we read here. It's gonna be bad if it's like this. Sooner or later this will come back to us. I know people don't like demonstrations, and I don't think they don't like strikes, but once they start, they don't just stop. People use them because they're in trouble because they don't see another better way out of the trouble they're having. Therefore, he would recommend to all of us that we do not think in this way, as we have been listening to him lately. There's speculation in college work, and I'm not running away from it. I guess that's what this is all about. But there can't be a logical conclusion to this, so let's stop the student work. If that's the conclusion, then someone can't logically conclude. Mechanisms need to be put in place to reduce the potential for abuse, and they are aware that we do not have an alternative mechanism for student work in this country. If we find that some avoid the jobs offered to them because they prefer to receive funds from support, then we cannot conclude that everything must be done quickly or that as much of those who are unemployed should be removed from the list of unemployed. We have mixed everything up and punished because we have problems with some number of those who abuse opportunities, we punish the entire population. For this reason, I expect that we will be able to implement Article 2 and that we will all have the opportunity to engage in an active employment policy. That we will raise the standard here also above what the previous government has achieved. An excuse for what someone has not done is a very barren thing, and even in a way ridiculous. After all, the new government is chosen to make it better, not to make excuses, for the former have not done well. That seems like a good idea to me once. Active employment policy is necessary and needs to be brought together as soon as possible with additional ideas, with more power, with more resources, and we will have to look at what the priorities are in this country, if all the priorities are, if we think that where we have enough water, we have been discussing one of these cases yesterday, we have to add, while then we will run out of funds for those programmes that are really urgent, then we do not manage well. I would expect that we will discuss these issues very seriously and that we will not go all the way, that the coalition will not go through with this law until it sees the whole picture. If this whole picture isn't here, then we're going to go to some area, maybe someone with a reckoning that they're going to outsmart someone, somewhere else, but eventually people are going to miss it. This law calls for some other measures. We need comprehensive measures if we are to have more and more people in Slovenia, with an ever-increasing education, in a position to contribute to the development of this society. The idea in the 1990s, when we decided to open up opportunities for education, was that somehow at a time when these populations would rise strongly, as far as the number of those with higher or at least higher education would be concerned, that this would coincide with the improvement of the situation in the economy and that this would give each other new power to increase the power of Slovenia as a whole. Now comes this time. About 15,000 people will also come from more than secondary education from various institutions in Slovenia this year. If they fall primarily into the wall of insecurity and unemployment, then ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at scenes that we are still seeing from foreign countries on television.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you, Dr. Gaber. I invite Ambassador Marjetko Uhan to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In order to reduce unemployment, we must therefore create institutions that care for the unemployed, who seek or offer employment, to make them more effective in order to make work of value and purpose, rather than waiting for social support, for that compensation for the period of unemployment. That is what I think it brings or is the purpose of this law. The law offers some solutions to reduce unemployment, including for those who are most problematic or have the most difficult job opportunities. These are the first job seekers, older people and mothers, or women who are expected to go to maternity care. Almost every debater also stumbles against an article referring to the loss of compensation if the job applicant refuses an offer that does not correspond to his education. This time, in this law, it is sharpened by another degree, and I can see how some Members, lawyers, engineers are afraid to be sent by the institutes to sweep roads or even peel apples and strawberries. It is still a belief that in agriculture such things do not have to be done by such educated people. It is still the thought that education is the only quality or quality that employers seek. However, employers are also looking for other values, such as conscience, work, kindness, attitude to work, and above all, that is what employers are looking for. And if the increased number of consultants at the employment institutions will have the effect of reducing unemployment, so that employers will also get the people they are looking for, I think this quota will be justified. I hear many times in practice in the field that the institutions primarily protect the unemployed and themselves. That's what they call me right in my face. When they offer a job or ask for an employee, they apply or those who come to the interview, especially excuse, set the conditions and wish that these excuses would be less so that the unemployed would really be more willing to take the job, not any kind of job. I wonder if we are so educated in our society that we must also import people from the Czech Republic, Poland or elsewhere in agriculture or industry, because we do not find domestic workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you, Ambassador Uhan. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In this law, I am quick to point out only some of the shortcomings that have occurred in the preparation and dialogue in the public domain. It is very interesting that there are no examples of those Nordic countries, such as Finland, Sweden, Denmark or Norway, which are often referred to as possible references, but also as specific cases, since we know that government representatives have recently visited precisely those countries, including in order to familiarise themselves with models that apply there in the fields of employment, social policy, education, training and the like. Only cases of Germany, Luxembourg, France are described, while these countries are shrinking, unfortunately. And it would be good to not only study these models, but also include them for possible other solutions. Secondly, it seems to me that the main problem of the ministry or government that has gone missing is a broader dialogue, a broader debate and wider coordination with a package of other laws that should be linked here and weaving together common solutions. We don't know what lies ahead in another marriage. Let's say we discussed one yesterday, we don't know if he'll find any connection to it. After all, this is a package of reforms. We do not know whether the partnership that deals with these reforms has already in some way reflected on these solutions, or whether only the minister drops them without connecting them to a whole. Social dialogue was not loud enough either. The dialogue with the students who were sitting on the streets these days was also not clear enough. In short, solutions - undoubtedly some are moving in the right direction, others leave a marked open dilemma - have not been sufficiently addressed and this is undoubtedly a great minus when dealing with those who should also say their aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Mir Petk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you so much for the opportunity, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all who persist in this hall! The law we have on the table today is welcome in implementing active employment policies. It brings a type of novelty, and above all some real hope that we will get between 7,000 and 10,000 new jobs on the basis of this legislation, as Minister Drobnic has already said today. In my opinion, that's quite a realistic prediction. Certainly more realistic than the one offered years ago by a political party promised 100,000 jobs. We did not get these 100,000 jobs in Slovenia, and if we did, we would probably not be talking about this law today, and then today we probably wouldn't have had such a unemployment rate in Slovenia. In this debate, I would like to stop with concession fees, where it is an important novelty that part of the concession funds is allocated directly to the work of students and students or to the public fund and to the scholarship. We have heard that about 800 million of these funds will be raised. We've also heard some calculations on the assumption that the scholarship is about 50,000, so we'd get about 1,300 new scholarships, but if we discount this number a little bit and assume that the scholarship would be 40,000 a month, then that would mean more than 1,600 new scholarships. Of course, there will still be sufficient resources for the operation of the various organisations and forms of student work from the concession fees. Today, it has been pointed out several times that there have been many irregularities on student services in the past. In fact, these student services have been in some ways the privileges of individuals who have made quite a fortune in recent years. This elite got rich at the expense of a student's work, bought yachts, bought hotels, bought water tanks and the like. It is also true that student bureaucracy was well funded, but an average student had nothing to do with it. This marriage, including the ruling coalition, has never and never talked about any suspension of student services. It should be noted that the rich student work on the other hand also closes the door to those young people who have achieved some education in the process of regular education, university education, because in the end there is no work for them. Employers prefer to reach out for student work, which is more beneficial for them. Secondly, I'd like to say something else about public works. Some changes are also promising in this area. Public works promote the growth of new jobs, are all-round social benefits and, above all, preserve a certain condition, especially for those entering these public works, a certain condition for work. Participants in public works shall, at least for a year, approach other employees. It is important to ensure that they receive a fairer payment. It's also a good thing there's pay in this marriage. The person with the VII. The level of vocational education will probably not be rejected by a salary of 150% of the minimum wage, better than nothing. As it is said, it is important that the public works return unemployed to the work process and that this gives them some hope for more permanent employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you, colleague Friday. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. The gendarmes. [[He's not here.]] According to time, I think 17 seconds are still available for the Liberal Democracy. I'd like to invite my friend Gulic, who isn't here. I give my word to Ambassador Drag Koren. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State, colleagues, fellow Members who insist in this Chamber. This law, which we are discussing today on employment and unemployment insurance, is very important to me. I'm sure all the changes that the mags make. The trifle suggests that the changes that try to make the existing law are even better. On the other hand, I am also aware that certainly all the problems that need to be solved cannot be solved simply by these changes. Today, anyone who discusses first should be put into the skin of someone who, say, lost a job after 25 or 30 years and shows up at a business office, on a labor market when he's no longer competitive, when he's exhausted, a lot of people are already a little burnt out. These are certainly people who experience great personal hardships and who experience immediate family hardships. They're not just like that. There are also young people who are immersed, immersed, mature, quick to study, who want to create their own family, get married, get an apartment, have children, and what if they do not hope to decide because there is no employment. However, we must ask ourselves, and we must also put ourselves in the role of another, one entrepreneur, who has 150 employees who work well, but we know how it is in the market, how products are sold, how quickly they can get in trouble when products do not go as fast as they have to decide to forgive certain workers and the legislation makes it impossible for them to do so. Or the reverse case of when new orders arise, important orders when they are pleased to have these orders, but when they ask the employment office to provide them with additional labour, only they cannot and cannot obtain it. It's really a kind of extreme from one side to the other. On the one hand, there is a shortage, a shortage, a lack of a certain workforce, and on the other hand a great deal of the unemployed. Therefore, this flexibility in the labour market seems important to me. That is why I think this chapter, which speaks of an active employment policy, is very important. I am convinced that these changes proposed in this area will bring many positive things, many good things. I'd like to stop by for a little while while while I'm at college. Here I am convinced that it is necessary to do much, much order and eliminate the type of abuse that has occurred both on the students' side and on the employers' side, which, instead of the students, hired other things that we have taken out of our hands, or just paid money or launder money and so on and so on. Once again, I am personally convinced that the task of students is mainly to study. But I'm not against the fact that a student's job would have been discontinued, but it would have been right if students could work in their professional field of study. When I was in college 23 years ago, 24 years ago, there was less student work, but as much as I worked in my student field. I must say that most of the practical knowledge that was most useful to me at the time of my employment was work in college, then with various forensic experts and so on. Then I'd say two more words, as far as the records are concerned. This area, too, I think, is very important that the unregulated records are also to blame for the fact that it was not order enough that things were not able to be properly monitored. The regulation of records and the central database will also prevent a wide range of abuse in the field of various social assistance and transfers. I could also talk about a number of other things, such as public works for which I am glad that change brings about the fact that you will also have regression and paid meals and holidays. Public works, I think, are one such transitional period that allows me to say as much translation as possible for the force of this great crowd that is on the labour market. Of course, I would be more pleased if everyone who comes to the employment agency could quickly get a new job. I am convinced that the proposed changes allow for this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you, Ambassador Koren. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues from Social Democracy have already made clear enough where our basic positions, views and the main criticisms of the law are. We accept that it is right and necessary in the field of labour relations, which have now begun to be coordinated among the social partners, and then employment and unemployment, to seek solutions that will be more adapted to European experience, and above all will address what we really want - this is to reduce the number of unemployed on the one hand, the corresponding rights of the unemployed on the other hand, thirdly, to prevent or aggravate the possibility of abuse, and fourthly, also the appropriate position of employers who can, through flexibility of employment, but not to the detriment of the rights of the unemployed, enforce their entrepreneurial and business interests. And solving all these four sets of issues in my opinion or in our common belief in the law is not properly regulated. Sanctions against supply and rights are still being overemphasized, and the focus is still on restricting certain rights, rather than increasing the responsibility of the State to tackle the problem of unemployment more quickly. The government has invited trade unions to a joint visit to Scandinavian countries just to assess together on the spot how the labour market works. And we got the relevant information, this time even quite uniform, from different sides. If I understand them correctly, and according to the information published in this regard, the information is as follows: yes, the great flexibility of the labour market, but in the first place by ensuring that those who have not received a job for a very short period of time have done all they can to accept the work offered to them in order to accept the necessary training offered to them have extensive rights that guarantee full social security. Even at the expense of relatively high wages, which are valid and in these Scandinavian countries, still have a relatively high percentage of the right to compensation if it does not get a job very soon. It is said that the first move is the obligation of the State to ensure employment, and then only sanctions if it is not willing to accept employment. And that, I think, should be our basic guide. And I am sure that any serious political party will be pleased to adopt solutions that will ensure the obligation to accept a job in this direction, but also the responsibility of the State to help do so, otherwise adequate social security is not with constant new assessments or someone is decent and wants to work or is employed. In this case we can't see the solution or the conflict on the worker's route: the employer. Reverse. We see him on the route worker: state. The country is the one who needs to help with its solutions to both the job seeker and the employer. Allowing the employer to flexible employment, but not at the expense of taking leave where necessary, means that one who is fired will go to the labour market for an indefinite period of time, with very low rights as with us, taking into account the fact that we have average wages. A very short period of time has the possibility of even receiving compensation, a relatively low remuneration, and relatively small guarantees to obtain employment during this period. And that's what this marriage is supposed to solve. Because, in our view, it does not solve this properly, we are not satisfied with its content. We expect and hope that the debate on this law will continue, we will also work hard with the amendments, the government has expressed its readiness to seek such solutions. In such a case, it will be possible to support the law; in the opposite case, we will not ultimately support it. I think that this is one of the things that is extremely important for the stability of the social situation of people for a balanced policy, in order to arouse a sense of social inclusion and social partnership. It is really not good to solve this issue with a very left hand and bureaucratic one, so we expect, believe that if it takes more than a month or a month to do so, they will find the right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. But to my words I invite Member Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word and welcome. I welcome the proposed solutions of Minister Drobnik or the Ministry of Labour because these solutions will certainly contribute to the more effective implementation of the active employment policy. They will certainly also contribute to more effective sanctioning of certain abuses. You know that there are many things wrong with the existing law or legislation in this area. I would like to read to you a letter addressed to me as mayor by the head of Gorenje's company in Rogatec, who employs about 350 people: "I am addressing you regarding the employment of workers at Gorenje Mekom Rogatec. On April 1st, we increased production by 15% at Meko Rogatec, which was the reason for us to employ 22 additional workers. With 1.4, production is also increasing, so that we will need another six workers. Despite the efforts of Gorenje's staff service, we have not yet managed to obtain all the necessary workers and we still lack five workers. We were looking for new employees by ourselves through already employed workers, and we also put the need on the employment agency, namely three Šmarje institutions near Jelša, Šentjur and Celje, and we also turned to the Rogatec municipality, which provided us with a list of people to whom the municipality pays health insurance. All five workers came from this list, with all of us already having an application for employment, while others from the list did not contact us or were not ready to work in our establishment." I must mention that our municipality, the municipality of Rogatec, pays 135 workers compulsory health insurance. That means so many are officially on the stock market. In the neighbouring municipality of Rogaška Slatina there are 500, it is said that there are over 600 unemployed people within a radius of 10 kilometers. If we subtract because I don't think this job is the most suitable for women, the real half is 300, and the ones that don't fit, but after all it was very hard to find people. Look, I totally agree with my colleague, I think formerly my colleague Žnidaršič mentioned that Slovenians and Slovenes are good and working people. But we must also admit that we are the right experts for finding holes in the marriage, and we are very clever, which is very commendable, that we know the law as it is, even then we work and take advantage of everything that legislation allows us, especially because of our convenience. You know, it's much easier or much more convenient for a mother and a father to take a child to kindergarten in the morning, then he can go for coffee, then he can do some fush. The spindle pays 100% to the municipality, subsidizes the apartment, of course if it has a municipal apartment, and so on. I would like to point out that these are things that are so written or can be done in the existing law. I therefore fully support the solutions proposed by the Minister, which also address this problem. However, I would also like to mention the weighting of public work, particularly in terms of public work payments. I believe that the difference between money aid and public works has now been minimal. Not enough. And the new proposal here provides a higher pay, it also provides a regression, and above all, at least I think it is very important that people or women over 53 who will work through public works can continue this public work until the pension conditions are met, and men will be able to do so for over 55 years. Today we are faced with a very, very large employment problem, which is precisely the population of people who have lost their jobs because of certain bankruptcys or problems of companies. This gives more weight to public work, and I welcome it. I would also point out that these measures, which have been very well prepared by the Ministry of Labour, in view of the other laws that we have adopted in the past here in the National Assembly, which are certainly connected and will enable us in this area to work successfully in the future, to provide better prosperity for Slovenia and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you, Member. I give my word to Mr. Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact is that workers are weaker than capital and therefore special protection is needed. Especially sensitive, exposed groups are unemployed and those seeking employment. From this point of view, I support solutions that in one way or another enable the unemployed to make their situation feel better or better and that their social security will also be enhanced. Of course, I do not live in illusions that this law, which is under consideration today, solves all problems of unemployment. Employment and problems with those who cannot get a job or who lose it are much broader. That is why I also support the Government's actions, which will try to improve the situation in this area through an active employment policy. I support the law as such. I think that change also means a certain improvement. But I also have a few concerns, namely, the law is ready to assume that Slovenia is evenly developed, that there are no significant differences between particular areas, regions. But it's not like that. If we look at data on the unemployment rate, for example in Podrav, Pomur, Koroška, and compare it with central Slovenia, where this rate is very low, we see that there are very, very large differences. The same is true if we compare the gross domestic product, if we talk about the average wage, and another set of these indicators is that we can quickly come to the conclusion that these differences are very large. This is due to long-standing centralisation, long-standing concentration of power in the centre, long-standing concentrations of various state-owned enterprises, services, organs in only one centre. It is clear to me that these things cannot be resolved overnight, but that there will be a great deal of work to be done in this area. What is more important, however, is what brings about such large differences or a high level of unemployment, the poor condition of the economy. Of course, I am referring to the labour market. It's just that there's a black job coming up. Where workers do not get a job, they are willing to work without being declared insured. And to a greater extent, as work appears through student services, where it is again a form of black work. If I had already opened up the subject of student service or student work, I would say in the introduction that I personally support that students have the opportunity to raise their standards and deserve to be able to study successfully, of course in some normal contexts where their studies are not threatened. What bothers me about this student work is, above all, two things. One is that this student work is being very abused. This is still a big, big problem in Slovenia. So, they work through student tours who are not students, including aunts, uncles, old moms and so on, it is said that in this case it is a black job, or that they are simply used to launder money or that money is collected from businesses into private pockets. Such a situation has a poor impact on the labour market. This is essentially unfair competition. Those who work in black via student travel eat jobs for those who want to work, who are registered at the institution, who are waiting for work, who are also willing to work for a relatively low pay. But there's no work because these things run through student travel. Here are some other entrepreneurship students who are willing to step down from 5 to 10% for commission so that someone else can take advantage of this, which is, of course, the pure abuse of this institution. And in this area, it is said, working on black and student travels, there has been too little done in the past. I mean control, I mean sanctions, I mean some systemic measures that would also systematically prevent such things. The other thing that bothers me about being a student is student service. If we think back a little bit, student services worked with a very large profit, they invested in companies, in activities that had no connection with students. Hotels, chargers and so on. They invested in some suspicious investments, which also had no connection with students. And I think it was a total abuse of the student work they were doing for these student services. In doing so, let me point out that, for example, the largest student service in the country is Mariborese, but which is already owned, it is said, privately owned. This happened in 1996, when the then privatisation agency, with Mira Puc at the helm, allowed this service to take place, even though the University of Maribor, as co-founder, opposed it and advocated the status of the institution. But that's obviously how it went, and the university and the students were able to say good-bye to this service forever. The next thing that bothers me in this law or what I would like to do better is that for individual groups of employees who are most at risk, I do not think they are well taken care of. I mean those who are looking for their first job, I mean the interns. I will tell you that I know quite a few cases when young people are educated, educated people are willing to train for free, just to do this internship, so that they have more opportunities for further employment. But that's not the worst part. I also know cases where these people or their parents are willing to pay the employer something for their child to work for free of charge and to meet these formal conditions for further entry into a career. I think that's actually very problematic. Particular attention should be paid to this group of job seekers. The same is true of the elderly, those who have not yet come into the protected years. They have very big problems, too. Anyone over 35 or 40 years old is already in that group, at least in the area where I come from, where he no longer has a job. In this law, I would welcome the fact that the law preserves public works, even improving the conditions for those who find themselves in such a status. It's an important institution. I think most of those who have lost their jobs don't want to accept some social assistance, but they want to work. Public works are one good opportunity for them to remain active, to feel socially useful, and to be not on someone’s shoulders as social supporters. Since we have a limited time, I'm gonna end up here. Once again, I would like to say that I feel that the adoption of this law is absolutely necessary and I will support it. I hope that further decisions will be taken in the process of adoption, which will further improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you, colleague Hwauc. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As I have already mentioned in the presentation of the Group's position, I also personally believe that this law is good to bring about significant changes and that it is positive, and this does not mean that it cannot be further improved in any area. I would now continue my debate mainly on the basis of some of the ad hoc or predecessors' discussions that I cannot agree with in certain areas. If you only point out the concept of what is considered or postponed, what is a suitable job or a suitable job to be offered by the employment agency for job seekers. I am firmly convinced that a lawyer, an economist or, in general, a diplomat of some social skills is not eligible for employment in a construction work or some work mainly in technical fields. However, I am sure that it can be an appropriate job, for example for a lawyer, an administrative work, one way or another, as well as a level or two lower-valued work. I am firmly convinced that the real job seeker will have no dilemma or will accept a job that will be less valued for two levels than his formal education or not. But I'm sure any speculator who avoids work would gladly abuse this thing. I'll back this up with the case, and I believe he's not lonely. Not long ago, or it was already last year, one successful Slovenian company issued an invitation for a vacant post of secretary, where secondary vocational education was required. You will not believe this invitation to tender for a number of 100 applicants, out of which there were as many as 250 college or university-educated prospectors, or those interested in the level or position of employment valued for the fifth level of education. It means that they obviously had an interest, for them to accept such a work. I myself led an employment agency for some time, where I also had the opportunity to deal with such and similar cases through practice. That's why this thing might be a little closer to me. In the discussions of the previous time when our colleagues discussed here, it was also possible to hear the observations or expectations that the state should provide employment for everyone in our country. I agree, but in no case can we expect that the state will now be able to provide employment to those professions that are now significantly too much, lawyers, economists, in general social areas. Only by creating and paying taxpayers can jobs be provided here. These are not jobs that create some added value that our industry needs. That being the case, the systemic errors of past years or decades are to blame. The climate in Slovenia was mainly in the direction that our young people studied in such schools, such colleges, which produced personnel, which are unemployed, which our society or our economy does not need. It means that the only solution is to get a job for these people in trying to reclassify in some way, and here the country has, and I am sure that it will also have an interest in helping to up-to-date those job seekers. It was also heard in the debate how this law should regulate the effectiveness of the work of employment institutions. Believe me, there's going to be a lot of change in that. Since, as I mentioned, I was employed in an employment agency, and this agency has business units all over Slovenia, through practice it was possible to detect great differences between the individual employment offices. In some cases, the interest in cooperation was extremely high, in some cases almost nothing, even feeling that they had no interest in helping their registered job seekers in the way that the employment agency could then be provided by those who could then be employed. In the end, I would now only touch on student work in my debate. Throughout my past work, I have had the opportunity to face abuse many times. Not always, but many times. The data we have today shows that over 26% of the student's work earns over 200,000 per month. Here we can look for reasons why only 10 to 15%, at least such information I received last year, completes studies at regular times. It is certainly an interest for such students to have only student status and thus abuse the possibility of their employment, in some way be unfair competition for job seekers, pretend our tax service and so on. It is certainly necessary to systematically enable students to work, but in such a content that will contribute to their better education, and above all that this institution will not be abused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I do not have much time, but I would like to tell you, Mr Minister, that some fellow Members have missed you very much, for example, Comrade Kontič, but he is not here now, when you answer, take this into account. However, what some colleagues have mainly warned about and have seen sanctions in this law, I think this area will have to be regulated. What we heard last night that some student officials, two of them were appointed, received 1.3 million gross wages, of course, will be absolutely necessary to settle. That kind of relationship doesn't lead anywhere. This is one of the areas that is very much called by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. That is how we have exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister shall have at its disposal 10 minutes to answer the questions and dilemmas raised during the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome again! As a result of the government meeting, I could not be present in your discussion on the changes to the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, by which we ensure greater activity of the unemployed, reduction of the number of unemployed, elimination of abuses, regulation of records, greater control over the functioning of these systems, which ensure employment or work, inclusion of the unemployed in humanitarian work, works carried out in public works and so on. The law submitted was in line with the social partners with the exception of one Article. Therefore, it does not apply that we did not negotiate with the social partners. We have, but the final decision, so the Economic Social Council has also adopted that such a text should continue. There was no complete agreement on the employment supervisory board. The law on institutions clearly states that most governments, most of them cities. In this case, as we have put forward in this law that you have dealt with, the government does not have a majority. So there wasn't any majorisation. We've taken into account the social partners. He doesn't have a majority. On the other hand, the Ministry and the Ministry are responsible for the work of the Employment Service. How, then, should we ensure supervision, management of the employment agency? Who's asking? This is not how it can be implemented. That is why we have come up with a common solution where the social partners are, on the one hand, employers and trade unions have half, on the other hand, the government, the decisive member is the employee representative. This is more than voluntary by the government, given the need to exercise control and also powers. It was mentioned that we did not negotiate with the students. We have negotiated with a number of other stakeholders, including coalition partners, inter-sectoral, cross-sectoral, large-scale coordination. I think that there have never been so many coordinations in the functioning of a single state since the Ministry and the Minister appreciates social dialogue. Therefore, we do not allow such baseless criticisms to occur. Even students themselves have stated that they have cooperated, that they agree and that they are satisfied with the functioning of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in particular as regards this law. You've had the opportunity to read this in the media. The supervision of the Republic Employment Office, the functioning and exercise of rights, and so on, is regulated by sub-legislative acts. I also set up a control sector. He shall carry out the tasks with the authority and shall inform me thereof. The Employment Institute is in the process of modernisation. What's been going on for the last seven, eight years is not good. Low number of consultants with a significantly increased number of employees in the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, our first orientation is to increase the number of employment advisers, those who work directly with the unemployed and who work with employers, without increasing the number of employees at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. On the contrary, the number of employees in the employment agency is decreasing, performing significantly higher quality work with fewer employees. More scholarships are also linked to ensuring this number of jobs. Let me stress, this was also the question that we are preparing a law on scholarships. One contribution to the increase in the number of scholarships will be made by this law when part of the concessions are earmarked for the grant fund. In particular, we have defined only and only for this purpose. Of course, it must represent a scholarship system of connections between the economy and the university, and this will be much more so than it has been so far. The question of the discretionary right to decide on the award of a concession. The Minister shall issue a decision on the basis of the criteria adopted. If the potential candidate for this concession does not agree with the decision, the possibility of an action in the administrative court where the court decides whether the conduct of the Minister or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been appropriate, lawful and correct. Well, he also has a chance to protect his rights. Why until the age of 26, subject to 12 months of waiting for work. Because within 6 months, the employer must first make an employment plan, then there will be preparation programmes for employment, training, whatever it takes for an individual to prepare for work. And in the event that this has been unsuccessful and employment has not occurred, that measure of employment and exemption of contributions will actually take place. We must be aware that it would not be good to hide the exemption from contributions to those who have deficit jobs. They should be employed if they have a deficient profession without these instruments. Because based on their profession, they can employ their skills. All of these measures are aimed at ensuring an approximately equal opportunity for all categories of unemployed not to be excluded or left to a strict market for the elimination of disabled persons, elderly, potential mothers and similar categories, which have some characteristics of a heavier job seeker. The measures are therefore so selected as to ensure an approximately equal level of employment opportunities for any of the unemployed. Dear Members and Members! I think most of the questions that have been asked have been answered. I'm glad you had this discussion. I was of course thinking that this law could probably move forward faster and achieve effects earlier. However, it is useful that the debate was held. I am pleased that you have made a positive assessment of the solutions in the law, that good solutions, which will ultimately mean more social security, are more jobs. We estimate that this, according to other measures, will be around 7 to 10,000 new jobs in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill was in line with the social partners, with the students. The State Council has also given its full consent to this law. The basic purpose of the law is to improve the efficiency of the work of the employment institution, to implement the European Employment Strategy, to align the situation of persons involved in the public works programme with other employees, and to regulate the records maintained by the institution, and to enable unemployed persons to come to work more easily and to encourage them to do so. It is certainly one of the principles that will be worth working in Slovenia. This is one of the fundamental principles that we want to implement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. For the 18th item of the agenda, we had an estimated 3 hours and 40 minutes. Given that we have another 20 minutes at our disposal, I ask Members and Members and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to speak in connection with this point? We only have one report. Two. Three. The number three will also be left. Comrade Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I might touch the student's work a little bit, and I wouldn't want to evaluate it in any way through any weaknesses and negative deviations that we all know are, but first I would like to look at the positive effects that the student's work can have. It is not only about ensuring that students exist or at least easier to obtain the necessary resources to study at all, but I also point out here the effects when they can start building their careers at the time of the study, when they can work in businesses, where they learn more about their future employer, and vice versa, when the future employer can get to know the student, learn his virtues or not, and then decide more easily whether to work or not. If, in such a work, which is even more useful, if it can be coordinated, I mean, substantively, with the field of study of this particular student, if the student can prove himself at that time, he certainly increases his employment opportunities. I also stress this because we have heard that the students themselves have expressed satisfaction with the ministry's work, but on the other hand we can lead that it is one of their main demands and expectations from the government to provide them with employment within a reasonable period of time following the completion of the study. Here I also point to the time of study and to certain rights arising from this law which are bound to age. It certainly does not matter whether someone finishes school after high school, that is, at 19, 20 years of age, or is studying and then, even if without interruption, decides to study for five, six years is already in those years when certain rights are restricted. I therefore point to this discrimination towards students and also to those who regularly study, so the studies have been completed without a break. To delay students, it is certainly not their fault, but they are forced to do so by completely existential reasons, mainly exposed to fear of unemployment, because in this way, if you have maintained your status and through this student work, you can at least ensure your existence during this transitional period. Once again, I stress the fear of potential unemployment when they graduate. Why am I exposing this? Since all measures to improve the employability of all young people, especially students, would make sense, this would take into account and give greater attention to the integration of students with potential employers earlier. I fully agree with the aim of settling matters in a way that will be worth doing in Slovenia. Of course, here we now have a competition more of each other's conflicting factors. One is to ensure the existence of the unemployed on the basis of certain rights and, on the other hand, their motivation to want to work and that they will be paid to work. On the other hand, the scope of rights vis-à-vis budgetary options. We are immediately faced with the denial of rights and then, on the other hand, the fear of abuse. However, my view is that we will most easily avoid the fear of abuse by changing our mentality into a wider social community and that employees will be more likely to condemn those who abuse and who exploit the opportunities that the law gives them by simply applying as unemployed and then avoiding the job offered. To conclude, it may only be that, in my opinion, the only criteria for whether a limited job is appropriate should be the level of education, but there are many more of these factors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Pike. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. One must be the last, in fact, the minister will be the last, but I think from the Members. No country in this world is rich enough to be able to offer its citizens a job that citizens themselves would wish for. I'm sorry, it's just an ideal. It is right to get as close to this idea as possible, but unfortunately we are not that developed, most likely we will never, so it is necessary to adopt such laws so that these doubts can be passed between whether a person works or does not work, that he is at the employment agency and is waiting for the work that is his ideal or that he goes to work to conclude some compromise. I think that this is the kind of compromise that this law makes. It is right to give work greater value, greater value. The best social situation is that a person is employed, that a person works and earns, that is not social, and that is when this social problem is best solved. As far as student work is concerned, I believe that a number of students are in distress and that many are coming to this job very well, and my sons have occasionally worked through the student's work, but if we analyze it on short notice, a satisfied student is a satisfied employer on short notice, because it is his most flexible workforce. The only employee in this business has gained unfair competition. And on the long run, everyone loses. The student does not have a working age, and one day we will have to go to retirement, and the funds we are paying for will have to be drawn from these funds. It's not going to make sense if we're all going to play, or if we're going to play long and wide. Of course, it is necessary to charge funds for pensions, funds for health insurance and so on. Long as we all lose. He's losing a student. He's losing a country. It's right that this law has come to regulate these matters. I don't think it's drastic that he's looking for optimal solutions, so of course I support him, and I look forward to him coming back to life as soon as possible, and that there will be more order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thanks, buddy Pike. If you allow it, you know that saying: and the last will be the first. I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. It should be pointed out that the government has clearly in its programme, as well as in its coalition contract, what we will also ensure in the field of work, family and social affairs within the framework of the students. When we watch things in public, we need to have a clear picture. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia first came with additional scholarships, through the regulation of student work, through the regulation of student diet and other matters which go in the short or long term for the benefit of the student. We wouldn't be responding to this right now, the student organization is demanding because the government doesn't want anything. At the beginning of the interviews held at the Ministry of Labour, representatives of the student organisation did not raise these issues in particular. They were relatively satisfied. With regard to student work, it is necessary to say that the conversion represents approximately 25,000 jobs. A large part of this is quite appropriate for a student’s work that carries out its basic purpose. This is the acquisition of students' skills and other, the acquisition of adequate resources for studies. Of course, it does not do everything it should do, or it does some of the negative effects that the Member has clearly explained to me. To conclude, I can really say that we have gone with this law in a joint effort to ensure a good regulation of the field of work and employment. The practice will certainly bring about another initiative that needs to be implemented. However, we are certainly on the right track. The foundation of social security is employment, which is the starting point. Every man, on the basis of his free will, his creativity, his work, and his motivation, can and should acquire the means to live. And only when it is not possible to ensure this, because of the circumstances of the disease, disability or anything else, will the State enter. At that time, it must ensure, with appropriate assistance, decent social security. However, the priorities follow the order I have indicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Minister, thank you. I also conclude the debate with your performance. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 2 p.m. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which, as we say, will continue at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Dear Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask all Members and Members present to verify the functioning, proper functioning of their voting devices in accordance with the established method or practice. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay, following an urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, they were not accepted, they cannot be tabled in the third reading. That is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. We're voting. Only 35 Members and Members were present. However, since I estimate that more of us are present in the sitting room, we will immediately repeat the full vote on the law. We will vote on the bill as a whole. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We'll vote next time. I note that there were not enough Members and Members present in the second vote. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. So we proceed with the meeting at 2:12 p.m. Until then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're going to continue with the 12th point. I ask for attention in the context of the third vote, namely, we are voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister very much for being here. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the voice, Ambassador Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For those of you who have not been to the Chamber, when we have considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance, I will repeat the core of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Given the value of work for the Social Democrats, the proposed legal text is aimed at addressing the greatest problem that man feels when he cannot exercise his right to work. We believe that the proposed legal text is one of those laws which, by the way, predict measures, which we are not sure will produce the effects that the Ministry of Labour expects from this law. We are convinced that the starting point, which highlights in particular the sanctioning of abuses related to the situation of the unemployed when they turn out to be not very active job seekers, or the abuse of student work, cannot be a good starting point, but the core of the measures should be aimed at finding better employment opportunities for those groups of the population to which this law is intended. These are the first job seekers, workers who have been unemployed for a long time, older ones and those who have inadequate qualifications. We believe that for a second reading, the law must be substantially corrected in some solutions if this law is to receive the support of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Expecting the Ministry of Labour to hear first-hand the concerns expressed in relation to this law, the Social Democrats Group will not object to the proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Business Register Act of Slovenia. On Monday 24 April this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legal service and the Government have not warned me that the law would not have been inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the maritime code. On Monday 24 April this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legal service and the Government have not warned me that the law would not have been inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes in favour and none in favour. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on meteorological activities. On Monday 24 April this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third-reading law, and therefore, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not notified me or warned me that the law would not have been harmonised because of the amendments adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also hereby adjourn the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue on Wednesday, 3 May this year, at 10 a.m. Until then, say good-bye!
