ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Kangler, Breda Pecan by 2 p.m., Miro Petek, Jakob Presečnik, Michael Prevc and Mag. Franz Capuder by 12 o'clock. We are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda yesterday - this is the first reading of the proposal for a tax procedure law, namely the general debate of Members and Members. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. With regard to the general debate of Members on point 3. He's quitting. Then it's Mr. Joseph Horvat's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Minister Dr. Bayuk with fellow Members! Nicely greeted. When we think and discuss the tax package presented to us by the government in the National Assembly, we analyze the economic developments in Slovenia, and I am pleased to find, on inflation, on economic growth, on unemployment, that we are now achieving the best results. We note that if we analyze and study tax laws, proposals that everything since Slovenia's independence takes place for the first time, that all citizens will pay lower taxes. At the same time, companies will be less burdened by economic companies and the budget deficit will be lower. This gives us one optimism, especially optimism, because we are entering from 1 January 2007 among the family of countries where we will use the same currency, that is the euro. It is through this achievement that Slovenia is becoming fully recognizable in Europe and also in the world. With regard to the tax procedure law, I welcome the fact that this is a completely new law, and I specifically point out that it was high time for tax procedures to be simplified. Simplifications, of course, also make them more transparent. The basic objectives or starting points of the bill are, as is said, transparency of the tax procedure, legal certainty, simplification of tax procedures for taxpayers as well as for the tax authority. In particular, this reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers and the tax authority and stimulates taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily. I support the proposal we have on the table, and I am sure it is a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Before continuing, I would also say that Dr Mitja Slavinec cannot attend today's meeting. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. A well-known distinguished minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Given that I have very little time, I would only say that I am in favour of the proposal for a new tax procedure, primarily because it simplifies the whole process of implementing this law. I support it because it is likely that the taxpayers will be more pleased to receive a tax return already completed, including some institutions, and I must say that the municipality has also been involved in the provision of aid to taxpayers so far, and this will also go away, which is also positive. I am pleased that it is included also so-called, if I may say the social component that the debtors who have problems from this point of view will also pay a ring tax. In any case, I could list more positive components included in the new law, especially in terms of simplification, so I will also support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will focus on three things with regard to the tax procedure law. The first thing you probably expect me to do and to protest in some way is to actually devalue another law by Article 423 in transitional provisions, which is the law on access to information of a public nature. As you know, the Public Information Access Act states that all information and documents held by the public authorities and so on are freely accessible, except those provided for by individual laws. Among them, in Article 40, I think that, at point 5 or something similar, the disclosure of which would constitute a breach of the confidentiality of the tax procedure or of tax confidentiality, in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. Tax secrecy is protected in this law and there is no need to change anything by this law. The Public Information Access Act allows weighing and assessing in a particular procedure whether in a particular case the public benefit prevails over private benefit or data protection. Here, too, this restriction on public benefit and weighting is limited as tax confidentiality, since it excludes the data referred to in point 5 of the first paragraph. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary for you to amend Article 423 of the Act on Access to Public Information. As I read this article, it says, "from the date of the entry into force of this Act, in the fifth indent of the second subparagraph of Article 6 of the Act on Access to Public Information, the word 'paragraph' shall be added to the word 'paragraph' and so on. Yeah, you can't do that! How? The law on access to information of a public nature is not open at all! You cannot amend this law on access to information of a public nature. But if you want it, open it! Let the government open it, bring it here, and we'll talk. Of course, I'll say in advance that I won't agree. I would point out that it is important that tax confidentiality is protected, not the confidentiality of the functioning of the tax administration, the state in this area and so on, when it comes to information of public interest. There is no need to know how many, let's say, who got any pardons or any legal organization or anything like that; let's just say, what do I know, I'm not going to mention specific cases, one or the other. And I would even quote, if I could find at that time, Mr Perenič's position, which, as far as this area is concerned, I greatly appreciate, but which points out that we cannot in fact change other laws, correct them and actually devalue the law. Perenič says: "The public interest test should also apply to tax data, since, after all, how the tax administration operates with individual taxpayers also affects all other taxpayers." And such a test to the public you want to prevent, in a way that is completely impossible, namely, to correct another law by this law. This is nomotechnically unsustainable and I don't even know how it came through the legislative and legal service or the government's legal service and so on. I therefore propose that we discuss this in the second reading, that an appropriate amendment be prepared and that, in fact, if you think that something needs to be changed in the law on access to information of a public nature - but I think it is not - that then of course you do it there. The second issue that I would like to discuss with regard to the tax procedure law is firstly the service of the income decisions. This service is now being sent by regular service, with regular mail. I think it's a very risky operation, because it's the fact that this ordinary mail doesn't reach the addressee, I'd say, in the total responsibility of the addressee. I'm not talking about a case where the addressant said he didn't get the mail, but actually some mail could get lost. In fact, a letter can be lost and therefore these matters need to be corrected, and at least it must be recommended if it has not already been resolved in another way. At the same time, I think that the costs of sending these cases, decisions and pre-fulfilled income forecasts to reduce, for the first time, due to competition, you know that there are more of these companies. It might be good to press the current operators to lower costs. The director of management is no longer nodding his head, and today it is no longer necessary that he who is doing this business is the one who is doing it. Give me a call. Another issue, more and more of these pre-fulfilled forecasts, I will, of course, come from the electronic media, using a secure signature and so on. We certainly do not think that we can always charge the addressee or the taxpayer if he does not receive purely ordinary mail. And that's too much risk and too much burden at the expense of this debtor. Finally, because I had very two critical concerns and comments, hoping that you would take them into account, I would say about the e-indication. Here I must say that I am monitoring and also welcoming the efforts of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in this area when the current Director of the Tax Administration took up his job, he said that his aim was to get the taxpayers a pre-fulfilled tax return, an income statement, and that they would only enter what reliefs, whatever and whatever they sent, or if they did not respond at all, this would be considered a forecast. I think this is very important progress. I think it's a completely different way of thinking than I have been when I talked to the head of the tax administration years ago, where exactly this model was presented and the employees of the time were unconscious, it's never going to happen, it can't happen, it's a violation of everything that the tax administration means. I'm glad that step was taken. But I would argue here over the speed of the promise. I must say that DURS already has significant problems processing e-received forecasts, which I do not say electronically and automatically. We all know that the problem of tax administration is icy information systems or so-called "back office" and that I am expressing serious doubts that within one year you will be able to repair all systems, information systems, in these so-called icy information systems. I'm warning you to be careful about this. Of course, as I have already mentioned, the goal is good, the direction is right, but as I would have said, I would point out that you have more problems than you think at first sight. And even today, knowing at least partially this system, I say that part of the delay in issuing the decision is certainly attributed to the problem of the information system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. In this short time, I would like to draw attention to only one matter concerning the tax procedure. Although we have already changed the law on the tax procedure in the National Assembly. I think that there have been many positive amendments to this amendment of the law and that all of these solutions are also in the present law, which represents a complex, complete content. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the past we have met with the great will of the tax authorities. This is what I did in the previous term when I was a member of the opposition repeatedly observed that the tax authority, in a particular tax forecast, went on its own to determine the tax revenues, that there was a decision in this case, that a number of errors could have been made, and that then the appeal procedure started after that resolution at the second stage, and then return to the first stage, and then finally the case agreed in court that it had taken a very long time, that the taxpayer could have suffered bankruptcy and that it could have failed during that time. I myself had at least four such matters in my office in the previous term. Although I was unable to assess what was essentially wrong, I was able to assess that the procedures were extremely long, that they did not end up in a fast and simple way and that, in fact, it was found here that the tax authority had failed to do the wrong thing, but it did not have any consequences. Thus, of course, I would suggest that this law also provides that, if a certain error has been made in the procedure, this should be corrected in some way for the taxpayer to remedy the damage that has occurred in a simpler way. I don't have time to tell you specific cases here, but I can give you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Cyril Testen is next. [[Not at all.]] Time's up. Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President or Mr President. Messengers and Members! Otherwise, I expect the government to answer some of the introductory questions that we have asked on behalf of the Club. Let me do it again. Above all, whether amendments are proposed, 22 measures are envisaged in the context of economic reforms and are fully implemented in the tax procedure. And second. We expect the government's response to the reasons for actually repealing the provisions of the law on access to information of a public nature in the tax procedure law. Why is that an important question? This is an important issue because you have now decided by this tax law in the law on corporate income tax that, in citing, "area" either through a government that will set up a scheme for the implementation of regional relief or, I would say, via Durs, through allowing for investment in R & D. And if we have a provision in the Tax Procedure Act that it is not possible to obtain public information on this, I am just giving an extreme case, then it is not clear whether legal persons in Slovenia will be in an equal position to apply these incentives to invest in research and development. Therefore, Article 423 and the amendments we will propose and discuss whether it is in the public interest for everyone in Slovenia to know how the government applies regional R & D benefits or general R & D benefits, of course all of this would apply clearly in the Tax Procedure Act. So this is the second main comment, and I expect an answer. And the third is what we said yesterday, and you obviously didn't make it. In the context of the measures, you are talking about reducing the costs of taxpayers of the tax authority, and in the law itself you say that there will be no budgetary implications. Minimumly, what you should say is that the lower costs, because instead of the so-called recommended mail, mail will be sent after a summary, decisions will be sent by regular mail or I think that there should be some lower costs associated with the so-called future incomes, as this will result in lower costs for taxpayers. I expect you to explain further what the actual effects will be, financially estimated, of this new law. Then, on this basis, we will be able to judge how we will support this law or expect that some amendments already in the National Assembly, including amendments to the Chamber of Commerce and others, will be duly taken into account in the discussion below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. A government representative has the floor. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were addressed to the co-worker, Mr Director-General of the Tax Administration. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he may answer these questions directly if he does not object, so he would ask for the courtesy of the National Assembly if he allows it to speak. Otherwise, as regards the question raised in this article, which is related to the right of access to information, I would just like to say, perhaps we will read this article again if it is possible to interpret it as the honourable Member has interpreted it. I would like to say, however, that the text itself has been the subject of a wide range of debates, an interdepartmental debate, including the person responsible for running this office now, and is literally as written as the Director herself has proposed. I understand if someone can read differently than the intention of this text, if necessary, but we will also, of course, examine it and ensure that it is okay and in accordance with the law. It was not intended, however, to change the law or even to take a different position on some of the side roads than the law currently stated. Well, we'll check it out. If I may, I would then ask Mr Simič to answer if any of the Members do not object.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Hello. Thank you, Members. Thank you for your word. So in the next few minutes, I would like to present this law on the tax procedure. I would also answer the questions raised. Here I have three, four questions concerning financial effects. Then I think that the questions that Mr Miran Potrč raised regarding the statute of limitations were, as regards the composition of the Commission at the second stage. As you know, the tax procedure law itself is a new law. Why did we choose to do this, because I myself have been involved in the drafting of this law within the Commission. We have decided because the general part has been completely changed. The provisions have been replaced, the chapters have been replaced, the new text has been replaced, and we have therefore considered that it is best to change this law completely, because it will be much simpler than the changes themselves. What is important in this law is the provision on binding information, which means that if any taxpayer asks the tax administration for a question, for a specific answer to his question, the tax administration will also answer that question, and it will have six months' time. But this answer will then be binding on both the taxpayer and the tax administration. What is new in this law is undoubtedly a provision in doubt for the benefit of the debtor, and this is in the context of the principle of proportionality, because if the tax authority has any doubts, it will always have to decide in favour of the taxpayer, which is not possible in the past. The new provision is also an electronic archiving of the documentation, it is now undoubtedly written that documentation can be stored electronically to be scanned, no longer has to store the original accounts. Large news is also the submission of invoices after the expiry of the deadline, since in the past it was a provision that a possible return to the previous situation was only within 8 days after the expiry of the deadline, it is now stipulated that within 8 days after the termination of the reason for the delay. The news, where it is also possible to correct the bill's bill, which has not been possible so far, means that anyone who finds any error will be able to correct this account within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline. The additional news is that the debtor can also correct the account if he has found his obligations in the account too high. Now he has a chance under the new law if he is adopted to be able to correct this bill within 12 months of the receipt and the tax will be refunded if he pays too much. The late rate decreases from 10.9% to 10%. During the postponement, we have introduced some of the news that we are proposing. In particular, from the point of view of simplification and also of reducing administrative obstacles, it is mainly a matter of fact for natural persons who have applied for a decision, the law proposes that a natural person may apply for a three-month decision or a three-month annual payment of income without proposing any evidence of this, because so far in practice it has happened that these procedures for the approval of this decree have lasted 2, 3, 4 or 5 months and it is illogical that someone is waiting for five months, with an additional provision which is also new, but the fact that if someone comes and says, "I will suspend their property or any other movable property to secure their payment of the tax debt, so that also in this case the payment of the tax debt is suspended for 12 months. The news is also the equalization of legal entities and S.P.s regarding bankruptcy. So far, there has been a provision in the Tax Procedure Act that, if an independent entrepreneur goes bankrupt, all debts other than tax debts are settled. This matter is now, as proposed, equal and also s.p. When the bankruptcy is initiated and the bankruptcy is completed, the tax administration is no longer obliged to do so after the bankruptcy has ended. Obsolete does not differ much from the current provision; it is roughly the same text. What was Mr Potts' question yesterday, how is it about obsolescence, if the country is working too slow, so here we have two issues. If the State is working too slowly, then the proceedings are too long and the case is obsolete due to the expiry of the 10 years, the taxpayer of this tax is not required to pay. If the debtor has a claim for recovery, it means that the procedure has lasted for so many years, say 10 years, and the taxable person has paid the tax, the proceedings are not completed, it is not legally established that he is guilty, in which case, despite the expiry of 10 years, that is normally the case in the Supreme Court, that the proceedings are resolved and if the proceedings are resolved for the benefit of the taxable person, that money is returned to him despite the limitation of ten years. This matter is then settled as to the statute of limitations. If I touch the heat. Mr Gantar mentioned the matter in the heat. Why did we decide to have this simple service? Already today, every shipment sent by return or by registered mail is sent on the 16th day, so on the 16th day, the mailman throws it into the letterbox as if it had been sent by mail. That's why we don't think there's any point in waiting for the 16th day. As far as the funds themselves, if we come from the fact that there will be a million 275,000 income decisions this year, we estimate that the second year will be slightly less, I will tell you why, the second year will be a million 150,000, and if we know that we have compensation for the use of building land around 630,000, that means that we are somewhere at the number of million 900 or a million 800 thousand of all shipments, the difference between the returnee, that is, the mail is sent with the returner and the ordinary shipment is 390 tolars, that is, if we calculate it, it is about 700 million less than the cost of postage for the tax administration. As far as mail and heat is concerned, those dilemmas that can reasonably occur, what if someone doesn't get the shipment. Logic, the philosophy of tax administration is today slightly different than it was in the past. First of all, there's a taxpayer for us, and even in the law it's written, fiction, that is, it's sent by mail, it's a fictitious 20th day. That means when we find on the tax administration that the 50th day is still a 30-day payment period, someone hasn't paid the tax, we'll call him and see why he didn't pay the tax, and in this case we'll send him back with a refund. We come mainly from the economy, because if a million hundred million, a million two hundred thousand income decisions are sent, if we have today's assumption that 66% has returned, it means that we can expect that 66% of the taxpayers will certainly not object to the fact that the mail has not received, and the others do not, because these matters are not enough to say that the mail has not been received. In addition, we need to know how many people are working on the process of folding these returnees after the returnees come back. If we just say that this is maybe a million fewer lines at the post office itself, which someone has to sign, that this is a million nine hundred fewer signatures, that postal workers are also less burdened, I think such a provision is quite positive. We therefore expect that this will relieve us all, both the taxpayers and the tax officials. In the IT calculation, I would like to say the following - as you mentioned, Mr Gantar, I doubt that we should be too hasty because something might happen because of the information system. I am aware of this, so we are all aware of this in the tax administration, which is why we are working very intensively to change the information system. As far as income is concerned, if we are talking about the 2006 income that we are going to forecast in 2007, we are assessing that there should be no major problems. This income in 2007 for 2006 will be our 2008 income test for 2007. It means that we will send the pre-filled forms with the data we will have, as provided for in the law, in the second year. However, the debtors will then be in the following line, as another line below will enter the correct information if they differ. However, in 2008 for 2007, if the legislation is adopted as it is that we can get all the data through control data, then we estimate that this will no longer be necessary and that the debtors can only check these matters and not react, they will simply not return; when the 15th day is up from when we send them, we will consider that the decision has been issued. I am aware of all the consequences, I am aware of all possible matters that can also fly to the tax administration afterwards, but we must do so. I don't see why not. It's physically possible to do all this. Those working on computer support will have to do these things. I don't think we should be afraid of any of our assigned roles, but we just have to get things out and the thing is over. This year's income, as it is and as it is happening, will be completed in the end. And I wish that the next year there wouldn't be so many people waiting for these predictions that there wouldn't be so many people burdened with whether they got it right or not. We have to relieve the debtors of these obligations. And what I would like to say at the end, if I answer your question, Mr Potsch, about the formation of this matter, about the second stage or some professional council, which is your proposal. I talked about it years ago. My position went in the other direction, namely, that, at a second stage, as in Austria, there would be two representatives outside the tax administration, outside the Ministry of Finance, who would decide on these matters in order to create some neutrality. Personally, I believe that this expert council may still be an additional body. I think it's better if we think about adding someone else to the decision-making phase two. I think they have a similar solution in Austria, and I've known her since before. The final objective of the tax administration in all this is that communication with the tax administration should take place from home, and this is also our final objective, which we want to carry out. That is also why we need a tax procedure that will be done electronically, if I say so. A tax procedure which, together with all relevant tax legislation, will have as few provisions as possible that require the taxpayers to enter any data. We have to get all the data from the control data and write it down. That's what I'd have to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State has the floor, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. With regard to the harmonisation of the tax procedure law itself with measures or with economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia or with the framework, I would say the following. The first measure, in short, to amend the general part of the tax procedure law, is incorporated into the law. The introduction of the terminator is not in one article but is in the other articles. So here we can say it's partial. The legalisation of tax confidentiality to the legality of the tax procedure is included. Reducing inefficient administration by introducing limit amounts to which the tax procedure is not introduced and does not pay in accordance with the principle of costs and benefits the procedure, as has already been said, is included. The introduction of electronic data transmission to the tax authority, as the director of the tax administration has said, is included. The submission of forecasts or revisions following the expiry of the deadline for submission shall be included. Self-reporting is on. The same treatment of taxpayers is included. The application of the principle in question to the benefit of the taxpayer is included. The possibility of introducing a tax review at the request of a taxable person has arisen here various expert opinions and views within the group that has actually drawn up this tax legislation. It was simply assessed that, in such a case, there would be too much impact of taxpayers on the tax authority's policy. For this reason, the expert group and then not the Ministry of Finance have defined that the tax review could be carried out at the request of the tax authority. An examination of the possibility of introducing a binding opinion, a binding opinion, is included. The examination of the possibility of settlement in the payment of a tax debt is not included. Here too legal experts weighed whether this would be included or not. This provision or this solution would raise the issue of corruption and corruption and, in particular, the equal treatment of taxpayers. The group advocated a uniform implementation of the whole law. From this point of view, she also decided that this would simply not be appropriate at the moment. The relevance of the decision to the second stage. The group concluded that, in certain cases, taxpayers could be in a worse situation, as there would be no complaint in this case, so this solution was not included. Obligation of the inspection period and time for the resolution of complaints. The group concluded that different cases require different hands and from this point of view, especially the inspection, we also have different taxpayers in terms of size and complexity. Consequently, this provision or this solution has not been included. Then we have an extension of enforcement to the property rights of shares in companies, etc. That was included. Simplification of the rate of income included. The possibility of applying tax reliefs pending the issue of a decision in the tax control procedure is included. The possibility of negotiating deadlines for issuing annual tax returns for different groups of taxpayers is not included. Such solutions are simple in some countries, but according to the tax authority's own business policy, it has been decided that these deadlines remain uniform at the moment. Simplifying the payment of tax withdrawals and setting the payment deadline remains the same as in the previous law. The abolition of the issuing of licences which unduly burden the tax authority is included. Yesterday it was also said, within the framework of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Conversion is no longer allowed. [[...]] The reordering of tax offences is included. According to the specific Directive on services in the European Union, the legal arrangements governing the profession of a tax advisor should be laid down, which in particular refers to the liberalisation of such professions and others, that it is not appropriate to regulate the entire organisation of a profession in law. After all, this also means certain monopolisation, monopolization of professions themselves. In addition, the possibility of a single introduction of tax amnesty is being examined at the Ministry of Finance. Here we are talking about examining and weighing good and bad sides and comparing ways of taxing different forms. However, late interest decreased from 10.9% to 10%. This framework for economic social reform measures was certainly a basis for the Group's work, as well as for the Ministry of Finance and Government. Each of these solutions, as well as the other tax system solutions, has been re-examined, reconsidered, of course, in order to ensure the most optimal solutions and, of course, those solutions that are realistic at the moment. From this point of view, I think that the tax procedure law is large, largely in favour of taxpayers and much also in optimising the functioning of the tax administration itself, which also means a more efficient operation of the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. The government wants it, too? Yes, please. Each debater has 5 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, I would still ask you, given that we had this complication yesterday, that paragraph 71, first paragraph, is still unchanged and I object to your decision to limit the matter to 5 minutes and I would ask that you allow the debate within the time available. But believe me, we're not gonna spend it. We're four. Not everyone's gonna spend 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope after five minutes, I don't mind. What we have heard from government representatives regarding what has been fulfilled since the measures under economic reforms is simply what we have predicted. In the context of economic reforms, the booklet issued three months ago by the government is, in fact, not real in these most difficult matters, to say the least. I will not now talk about other matters, about other measures, because the first measure of economic reform, the minister will remember it well, says that public spending will decrease by 2% by 2008 and by 2012 by the next 2%. But let's leave this first measure if it hasn't already been implemented. Let's look at this fifth measure. A brief calculation of what has been stated by the Secretary of State shows that eight of the 24 measures have not been implemented or one third have been implemented. This is also expected, of course, because I think that one way or another last summer's big summer "hunt" around reforms was only a major pianist action. What is seen here has been established by those amendments that have long since been made in the professional services, and some things that have been politically metallic inside should be "the possibility of introducing a tax review at the request of a taxable person" or the possibility of "imposing a binding exchange", "the merit of decisions at the second stage", etc., that is simply not in place. The second question is why you even published a publication three months ago - this publication has the date of June 2006, Mr Minister on the first page in which you wrote it all down. That's a different thing, of course. I am pleased, however, that the Director-General has presented the concrete effects of one of the measures, the right decision is not to recommend or post a return but rather that this mail will be normal. It's a matter of discussion. 700 million will be saved by the tax administration. I suppose this will also be known in the budget, that it will be reduced by 700 million budgets, or that, of course, it will be explicitly stated that this 700 million will be able to be used by the Director-General to increase the investment needed in information technology. Of course I expect that. Therefore, at least, what would be here to write in the financial implications assessment would be to write that the material costs of 700 million are being reduced and that the investment part of the state budget is increasing. When you make this investment within two, three years, then the next Minister of Finance of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to reduce the funds. We know that projects have some kind of unique cycle. And when you make an investment in information technology, then, in principle, there should be costs, running costs less, so, of course, I expect that we will see this reduction in tax administration costs by around EUR 3 million over the long term. Otherwise, the simplification of the tax procedure and the tax procedure law from the point of view of the obvious move forward. Two thirds of the measures have been implemented. Of course, let us wait for the full implementation, in practice, of these activities, which Mr Simič announced in particular. Whether you leave me in five minutes or not, I am adjourning my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I am very pleased that there is an increase in the impact of information technology on the very work of the tax administration and I think that this is the right path. However, I find it difficult to understand Mr Gantar, who expresses some scepticism about the introduction of this system in the tax administration. I am sure that the gentlemen who brought this here to Parliament knew what they were doing and that I understand that there can be a lot of problems. However, from the explanation we have just received today, I can conclude that the matter is prepared in such a way that there is no need to express any particular scepticism that the system would not come back to life at the time envisaged. As far as mail is concerned, I think it's a very rational behavior. I think the government in all areas behaves similarly rationally. For those few decisions they will not receive or will not receive on purpose, I think it does not matter if the procedure is somewhat longer. Most, however, I think it will receive a decision, no matter how many signatures this decision receives. So I think that this has further ensured that rationalisation is being seen in all areas, and the tax administration is also one of these. I also argue that in the past, when we dealt with the state of information in the public administration on the budget and other public finances monitoring committee, we have often found that it is not good or even bad. That is why we will now have to pay this bill and deal with investment and information to a greater extent, which is certainly not a cost for today or will certainly come back in a shorter time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers and co-workers! First of all, I would say that it is only right that the electronic device in this national assembly has put my debate to the debate of my colleague Veršnik, because if it were the other way around, my colleague Veršnik would have nothing to discuss, so this is quite good. My point in this is not to rush. On the contrary, there must be a hurry, but much time has been lost in setting up the concept of tax administration information. What I've been alerting you to is that this is a very serious business and that I think it's bigger than a lot of people know, after what I know. My warning went mainly in the direction that they should not try to find some interim solutions, because they will then be able to escape into major problems and possible serious disruptions in operation. Things need to be built in the back system so thoroughly, not just by bridging the current shortcomings. This is an important matter. As far as mail is concerned, the Director-General's response has reassured me to some extent. If I take another look at this article, it is crucial that I accept this matter, whether, after 20 days is the time limit for the prescribing of the service and 30 days for the payment, or whether or not it is the 31st day that the debtor is already a violator. And if it isn't, then the tax administration then gets in touch with him, what happened, he didn't get it, and so on, that he also personally gets it to pay him, then that's fine. Then I don't think there's any problem. Administrative and other costs, the reduction of these is so great that it is worth doing. And I think it's based on experience. The tax administration needs its experience, the tax administration is not a very flexible organisation and if they have come to this experience, it is right to install and change. The next thing I want to say is an e-receivable. So the situation in the area of e-receivables. Although the application is relatively good and suitable for the user because it simply imitates a classic, written paper application, although it is appropriate, the number of incomes given is incomprehensiblely low, electronic incomes, in the fact that the penetration of the Internet in Slovenian households is 50% and in the fact that 700 000 inhabitants, I also consider children who do not pay income, relatively regularly use the Internet at network level. Not enough, then. This electronic payment of income would significantly reduce the transaction costs of this activity, so it would make sense to consider certain ratings or facilitations or some benefits for those who go to electronic income. But there is something they must do first. They have to get a secure digital certificate first. From this point of view, it might be reasonable to consider what these options would be until the second reading. We know some of them. I won't explain them. Let's say an immediate payment of income, like a 10% discount or something. And similar things would, in my opinion, be beneficial to increase the number of those who electronically pay income. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to answer the question of what has been taken into account and what has not been taken into account. Simply, the tax procedure law and the framework of all economic and social reforms are not such a substance that would simply require certain measures to be simple, I will use a very ugly Slovenian word or not a Slovenian word, translate into law, and simply remain there without being re-examined here. I think here that Mr Gantar has already said that this matter is a sensitive matter, which refers to every taxpayer, to the position of a taxable person. As a result, these measures, which have been written in the context of economic reforms, have actually been re-examined professionally in terms of what can be done at a certain time. As a result, it is also not appropriate to simply add up and subtract certain measures without establishing their interrelationship, their actual application in practice or in its operation in relation to taxpayers and, lastly, in the policy of the tax administration. From this point of view, certain measures that have been eliminated here have not entered into the law, which is, of course, far from making the tax procedure law a relationship between the tax administration: a taxable person on a different basis, which will certainly be more favourable to the taxpayers, on the one hand, which will provide greater legal certainty for the taxpayers and allow the tax administration to be more effective. On the other hand, these effects, mentioned by Mr General Director of the Tax Administration, will be written for a second reading in explanation, which means that the government will complement the explanation of the law here. So there will be a million and seven hundred of which were actually defined in the explanation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day - the first defence proposal for the value added tax. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law regulates the system of value added tax. The basic objective of the proposal for a new law is to ensure greater transparency of the whole law, namely the simplification of definitions, editorial changes of the whole text, the renumbering of articles, the integration of individual articles into sub-chapters addressing a particular subject. The law preserves all the ingredients and content of the past: the determination of the taxable person, the subject matter of taxation, the moment of the formation of the tax liability, the tax base, the tax rates, the repetition, the tax rates, the tax exemptions, the administrative obligations of the taxpayers, the specific tax procedures, the obligation to register and obtain the specific VAT identification number. According to the applicable law, the rules do not change significantly; the content of the new legislation is explained below. The text of the new law is set out in the direction that the applicable law is adapted as closely as possible to the binding rules laid down in the 6th Directive, which must be complied with by all Member States of the European Union. In the general proposal of the law, there is no change in the system of value added tax, nor does the level of tax rates change, but certain simplifications of the system are introduced. The draft law amends the definition of the volume of traffic to be taken into account when assessing whether or not it is a small taxpayer. The volume of transport is newly defined as the volume of taxed transport and only specific exempt transport, while also raising the transport volume threshold from the current EUR 20,800 to EUR 25,000. This means an important administrative simplification for the debtors who are mainly engaged in a exempt activity, as they will no longer have to propose VAT accounts, monitor the VAT traffic and implement other administrative obligations applicable to VAT debtors. At the initiative of civil society, the six-year tax period is abolished by proposing only monthly and three-month VAT accounts. In the area of the management of the tax bookkeeping, the maintenance of specific VAT tax books has been abolished. The VAT data required will be provided in the bookkeeping of the taxable person. A proposal for a law introduces tax warehouses where certain goods obtained from other Member States or goods intended to be delivered to other Member States will be stored. The tax will be calculated at the amount of the goods from the tax warehouse, that is to say, further simplification for the debtors in particular in terms of the deferral of the VAT obligation and thus the liquidity burden on the debtors. The VAT surplus refund after VAT is no longer limited according to the value limit and returns to the taxable person at his request within 60 days of the submission of the VAT bill, irrespective of the amount of the VAT surplus. In setting the tax period for three-month taxpayers, the ceiling is increased from the current 20 million to the current EUR 83 thousand 460 to EUR 210 thousand. Some taxpayers who have to comply with VAT obligations for the calendar month following the current regime will be drawn up after the new VAT accounts for a three-month period. The VAT deduction restriction under the proposal of the law no longer applies to vehicles used for taxi transport activities carried out. Adjustments have also been made to the amounts relating to the transition to the euro. On the basis of all these characteristics, which I have briefly presented here, we propose a bill on behalf of the Government that the State Assembly decide that it is appropriate for further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with the co-workers! In the proposal for an additional value tax law, we believe that two issues can and should be discussed. For the first time, it is said whether or not there will be an increase in value added tax for 2008, what would be the consequences of such a decision, why such a decision would be necessary and similar. Secondly, I would like to say a word about the content of the law itself which governs, except for the level itself which has not been formally changed at this moment, in particular the issues of the way in which it is charged and other issues related to the value added tax law. Let me first stop at the first question and repeat our basic position that the announcement of the government to raise both value added tax rates in 2008 is lower than 8.5 to 9 and above 20 to 21% is unacceptable to us. It is not just a political issue, but it is also the consequences of such a decision that experts have assessed when preparing different bases for tax reform. The Institute for Economic Research, which was asked by the Government to assess the various models of possible tax reform solutions, has explicitly identified itself against raising value added tax rates and said that if such a decision were to be taken, this would have a number of negative consequences. Firstly, there would probably be negative effects on economic growth first. Secondly, it would be likely to increase the rate of inflation. Thirdly, it is clear that an increase in VAT rates in all income classes, except at the highest level, would eliminate all the positive effects of tax reform on household welfare. In short, all that the government, in particular some colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, are talking about how this is a unique tax reform that will relieve all taxpayers, who are first-time people-friendly, will give less taxes to individuals, and will give less taxes to businesses, which is far from the truth, and will only prove true in 2008 when the first taxes are paid, will not - certainly not - indeed, in the opinion of the profession will not be true if there is a rise in the tax rate. I therefore expect the government to make it clear that it will not do so, because it is only due to professional assessments to do so because it has decided that the basic objective of its tax reform is to relieve the best-paid individuals. And in order to significantly relieve the best paid individuals and not to make too much of it in the eyes, she went and completely changed the income system, as we talked about yesterday, only to say that in this system of income is only to those, the large majority, the three quarters that in the lowest income groups, gave less than a thousand dollars a month, the highest 50, 60, 100 and also over 100 thousand dollars a month. And if we look at the income, you know very well that those who, say, would gain by 100,000 wages, perhaps by means of a 500 or 700-dollar income law, would lose at least 1,000 tolars by changing the tax rate for value added tax by just 1%. And that at the moment when the value added tax will be raised in 2008, anything we are talking about today about the positive effects of income will be eliminated and it will mean, in addition to everything else that the government is preparing - it is also said that the law on social transfers, ways of calculating them, also other issues - will eliminate all this tax on value added and will no longer have any value. It is therefore worth stressing and telling us that these solutions are completely unacceptable for professional and political reasons. However, as far as technical solutions are concerned, we must say that when amending the value added tax law, we have some ideas for a possible supplement which, in our view, would be more professionally better and would have a greater impact on the correctness of the proposal itself, but would not have any fiscal implications. These are our ideas: the right to deduct value added tax should not be linked to the invoice with all elements, this is the administrative limitation of the fundamental right of the taxable person in the value added tax system, which is contrary to the principle of proportionality as one of the fundamental principles of European law, and will also be contrary to the decision of the European Court of Justice. Second. In addition to the threshold for entry into the system of charging and paying value added tax after a paid realization, this is EUR 208.000, to also set a threshold for compulsory exit from the system and, for example, we are working on a proposal of EUR 250,000, which will make it easier for those who exceed the threshold for a small amount. And as a third idea, the possibility of group-accounting and value-added taxes should be introduced, which is the scratch of some Member States and which can make liquidity easier for certain groups of taxpayers without any specific budgetary implications. Let me get this. As far as technical solutions are concerned in the law, they are acceptable with some adjustments. As far as the political proposal is concerned to raise the value added tax rate under this law is concerned, such an idea is unacceptable to us. And that this idea has a connection with the law itself, is seen in the resolution of Article 145, which authorises that 15% of the budget law can change the rates of value added tax, which means that there is no need to interfere with the law, but it is made by decisions when the budget is adopted; we know that this is not a new solution, even in the law in force, that it has never been applied, that is the first time, as government policy shows, that the government would want to have it in law for 2008 so that it would not need to change the value added tax law, but that it will enforce its intention to increase the value added tax through the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members. I'll try to hold onto the contents a little more precisely. The proposal for a value added tax law is more transparent, clearer, following the guidelines for the implementation of the Sixth Directive. In New Slovenia we support the proposed changes that bring solutions or simplifications to the debtors. Reference shall be made to the type of benefits and simplifications proposed by the law. This is where tax warehouses are introduced, which constitute a provision for the payment of value added tax up to the amount of certain goods from the tax warehouse. It should also be noted that after a new transaction involving the transfer of real rights and shares in real estate that give the holder the property right or the right to own the property or part of the property, they will be treated as the supply of services and not more than the supply of goods. This is a significant burden on taxpayers, as value added tax will be paid from each instalment and not more from the creation of the building of the right in its entirety than was the case under the applicable law. The new law also introduces a special provision for small taxpayers, which provides for the exemption of the additional value tax for small taxpayers from the proposed tax threshold of EUR 25 000. The increase from EUR 20,800 in the existing law to EUR 25 000 will then be simplified by 5,580 taxpayers who will no longer have to meet the value added tax obligations. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome solutions that relieve small taxpayers of unnecessary administration, which bring only high costs and tax effects are minimal. The new law amends the definition of transport which will have an impact on the reduction of the number of taxpayers, and in particular the proposed amendment constitutes a simplification of the business of those taxable persons who carry out a predominantly exempt activity in respect of which the taxable person does not have the right to deduct the value added tax. This is mainly about schools, gardens, health homes, societies and other non-profit organisations. The recovery of the surplus is no longer limited to value limits and returns to the taxpayer within 60 days of the receipt of the invoice, which means that the law is fairer to all taxpayers than we support in the New Slovenia Group. Taxpayers will be able to provide all information for the calculation of the tax liability in their bookkeeping. It will no longer be necessary to keep books of invoices issued, books of invoices issued for intra-Community supply of goods and for the transport of goods in other Member States, books of invoices received, books of invoices received for intra-Community acquisitions and special records of the value added tax on imports of goods. The New Slovenia Group agrees with the solutions presented in the new value added tax law, since the law is more transparent, clearer and more favourable to small taxpayers. The New Slovenia Group therefore supports the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Kramberger, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent a new value added tax law into the procedure. In our Slovenian People's Party Group, we were looking forward to proposals for legislative solutions in this area, as this is an extremely important segment of the collection of tax resources. With regard to value added tax, we have put very clear positions in our parliamentary group quite early. The Reform Committee has foreseen in its proposals for measures to increase prosperity in Slovenia that a reduced value added tax rate should be abolished. The Slovenian People's Party is aware that the theoretical system, with one tax rate, is better and somewhat more tax-neutral. However, we have calculated that such a system in Slovenia is virtually unacceptable and unfulfilled, mainly due to economic conditions. Thus, the system with only one tax rate would significantly affect many segments of social life, such as culture, tourism, the processing industry, agriculture and the like. At the same time, it would also greatly affect the economically weaker strata of the population. According to the Ministry of Finance, it can be found that it has 78% of the taxpayers for income below or up to the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that as many as three quarters of the debtors are those who would be financially affected by the single tax rate system. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased that the government has tabled a proposal for a law that maintains two tax rates. At the same time, we estimate that the remaining solutions to the law are those that we will endorse with approval. This increases the boundaries between small taxpayers and persons who are obliged to identify for the purposes of value added tax. At the same time, certain specific tax books are forgiven for keeping value added tax, which will significantly simplify administration as far as this tax is concerned. At the same time, the system is built to enable control of this tax. Colleagues and colleagues! It is also of particular liquidity importance that the value limits for the refund of value added tax are no longer set. At this point, the Slovenian People's Party calls on the proposer to examine the possibility that the tax surplus in the case of investments will be applied more quickly, i.e. earlier than 60 days. In terms of investments, liquidity is significantly higher. The business of investors would be cheaper if the surplus could be recovered earlier, for example, within 15 days, as it would not require additional financial resources to finance investments and value added tax. We are convinced that in this segment too, the proposer could draw up an economically more cost-friendly solution, which we believe is budgetaryly neutral, but can significantly improve the liquidity situation in the economy. Therefore, on the basis of the examination of the proposed solutions, we assess that the proposal for a value added tax law is a suitable basis for further discussion and will be supported in our Slovenian People's Party Group. At the same time, we call on the proposer to further examine the deadline for the recovery of the surplus tax on debtors who determine the surplus in the case of investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! If the purpose of the law was solely transparency, clarity and readability, then the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group could say: yes, the law follows and meets all these three objectives. Therefore, the first objective of transparency, the second objective of clarity and the third objective of readability. However, since we all know that the law should not pursue these three goals, but to pursue the content, we can say with certainty: despite the minor positive changes mentioned by government representatives, the law before us today is bad. It is particularly weak because our citizens and citizens will face a higher tax burden through this law. It doesn't make sense for any of us to be blind and talk about positive things when we all know or should know the 145th Article of the Act, which is contained in the 19th Chapter of the Specific Provisions and has the designation "authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". I will quote the second paragraph: "With the law on the implementation of the budget, the VAT rate can be increased or reduced by up to 15% under this law." This National Assembly has adopted so - called parallel laws several times. In the final phase of last Friday, we adopted a decree, not a law, a decree on the sale of state financial and real property. And the National Assembly has given the green light to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to sell through the decree the largest financial institution currently owned by the Republic of Slovenia or owned by citizens and citizens. The National Assembly did not want this sale to take place as previously agreed and concluded in 1994 through law, but rather to approach a very important matter through a decree. The same story takes place around this marriage. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made some minor positive changes, while there is still a 145th Article, which in fact tells all of us within our country that both levels of value added tax will increase by 15%. Why can I be sure of that? Because all of you, like me, have had the opportunity to see the 2008 budget or draft budget, in which we know that the revenue accrued from the increased VAT is. Therefore, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law is not acceptable. According to our assessment, the law should not be acceptable to anyone who seeks to ensure that taxes on citizens and citizens in our country should not be increased. This law and the enforcement of this law through the entire parliamentary procedure, provided that article 145 remains in the form referred to, as it is, a rise in the tax burden for citizens and citizens of our country. I can also point out that the National Party would adopt a proposal for a law if there were no article 145 or its contents. However, we cannot agree on the theory and implementation of value added tax in practice. To conclude, in addition to predicting an amendment to the next hearings in terms of deleting this power to the government to introduce an increased tax rate or an increased tax rate of 15% through another law, that general basic thought, which you also advocate during the other discussions, is that you do not advocate for even higher tax burdens. If your words from true TV shows or propaganda material have some credibility, then the national assembly of this law should not be supported today. Once again, I will quote to you the second paragraph of the specific provisions of Article 145, in brackets, [[power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia]] "With the law on the implementation of the budget, the VAT rate can be changed by up to 15% under this law." Ladies and gentlemen, you are increasing the value added tax. The increase is already calculated in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and my appeal or better said request is, do not support such incentives for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Good bye to all of you! Let me begin by saying that I am not going to talk about what is not in the law, what has been envisaged, but not to be in what the government will do without having any serious announcement. [[...]] It is true, however, that the value added tax law is a very important topic, since, after all, this tax is a fundamental source for filling our national budget and for carrying out the tasks that we have set ourselves as budgetary tasks in the National Assembly. It is true that this tax source is expected to increase, and if it increases because the economy will grow because there will be more traffic, as this will result in more tax at the same level, then this can be good for Slovenia and for our development. Then perhaps the tax debt can be reduced, then perhaps the annual deficits can be reduced and then it will be possible to reduce any levels. However, the government considers that the VAT accounting system is extremely complex, that it is poorly transparent, that it is complex, that it imposes too much burden on both taxpayers and tax authorities, and those who are not liable must nevertheless make one report. This also burdens them with cost and therefore suggests that some things change. In particular, because the additional complexity, the additional complexity of this system causes a number of special arrangements, numerous exemptions, various exemptions of individual duties and because the government wants to simplify this somehow and present it in a more transparent system, we in the DeSUS Group support this in principle. Just because we promise that what is foretold will come true. This, in particular, means reducing the costs caused by excessive administration and excessive accounting. The Government or the proposer considers that greater clarity will contribute to greater compliance with individual legal provisions, in order to contribute to the increase in the entry threshold for taxation from around 5 million to around 6 million tolls, thereby reducing the number of those debtors, several thousand of whom have been charged so far, and proposes an increase in the tax threshold for the determination of the tax period by about two and a half times. Perhaps, or almost certainly, leaving the requirement of keeping individual books will also make a big difference, some of which are books that need to be kept and will not be later. All of this, so we hope, will in fact contribute to recovery and less tax administration. At the same time, the government says that there are no implications for the state budget, which would make it personally difficult for me to agree. If there may be no specific consequences at the liquidity level, there must be some consequences if we are to talk about something changing in the system so that something changes in obligations. And so that we don't prophesy here too, let's wait for the results that will, I hope, soon, be clear as well. With regard to suspicions that the government does not provide the right data, because, as the 15% possibility of changing the VAT rate allows it, we can reiterate once again that we do not want to be prophets in this sense. We do not want to predict some specific budgetary, financial consequences from this, because this can only be guesswork at this point. This option already exists. And this power we're talking about is not a government mandate. This is the power to propose a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopt here, in the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament and not in the Government. The government will only be able to propose, and then the time will be right for us to resist if we decide that the proposal is not right. However, in the Group of Members, we are pleased to say this for a conclusion, that we have two tax rates, that we have a general and reduced tax rate, and this is also one of the reasons why we will support the proposal to continue the consideration of this proposal of the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The taxation of goods and services is carried out by means of the value added tax law introduced on 1 July 1999. After that date, the law was amended several times, for the first time in 2001, and then every year and last December 2005. According to its content, the law may affect all citizens, consumers of the goods of broad consumption, in the event of changes in rates. This time, when changing the value added tax law, we are not talking about changing tax rates, but about updating the law to make it operational and more tax-friendly. Finally, it must be said that changes to the law are also being made in the direction of simplification and efficiency of the work of the tax administration itself and of alignment with the acquis of the European Union. Your Honor! Allow me to make some of the most important changes in support of my above statements. The electronic exchange of data between the tax administration and the taxpayers is being introduced, the definition of so-called small taxpayers not taxed on VAT is changing and they do not need to comply with VAT obligations. It is estimated that, once the new law has been enacted, more than 5,500 will be available. It also raises the threshold of taxation from EUR 20,800 to EUR 25,000 and eliminates the management of specific tax books for value added tax. The refund of overpaid VAT has so far been limited by the amount. The amount shall now be withdrawn and the amount paid in full shall be returned to the debtor no later than 60 days after the submission of the invoice. Newly introduced so-called tax warehouses where untaxed goods are stored. The VAT obligation shall be made only at the amount of the goods in the warehouse. Finally, let me mention that the law is much more transparent and adapted to the coming introduction of the euro. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we welcome the amendments made by the proposed value added tax law, which is why the government has all the support of the Slovenian Democrats' Parliamentary Group for further consideration of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Mag has the floor. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. This is not a VAT law, this is a VAT raising law. This is not a law that, according to the Prime Minister, at a press conference yesterday night, he spoke about Slovenia having the lowest or lowest tax rate now, but this is a law that will be in place with ZIPRO and a draft budget which was submitted to the National Assembly in 2008 to enforce the historic highest VAT rates, 21 and 9. These are the facts that the government has forwarded to the National Assembly, you can look at the material on the website of the National Assembly. And once the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has actually introduced the highest effective taxation of the economy in 2006, 2007 it will apply the highest taxation of all of us from 2008 on the basis of this law on the basis of the budget adopted. The negative effects, as stated by the government in the study she commissioned herself, will be significant: lower competitiveness, especially of those services, is said to be at the border, especially tourism, especially trade. This will lead to higher inflation and consequently lower economic growth. To say that, of course, this law does not raise VAT yet is simply misleading. If the government really thought so, then it would not apply or write in the law the second paragraph of Article 145, or the government would bring into the National Assembly a budget that would have some 50 to 70 billion lower revenues in 2008. However, the data available in the National Assembly provide only two options - whether the government withdraws the 2008 budget or simply says it is misleading the Slovenian and international public when the budget provides for 90 billion more VAT revenues in 2008 than in 2007. 11.9% or 12% is the VAT revenue growth rate in 2008 relative to 2007 and still says so, as we may not need to raise VAT. VAT will be raised or VAT calculated on the basis of the calculations of the Ministry of Finance confirmed by the Government is already calculated in the calculations of public financial revenues. The Minister of Finance knows well that the Public Finance Act requires him to bring the relevant laws into the National Assembly when the budget is adopted and he did so. This is this famous second provision of Article 145. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we will not support the VAT law, because it is not the VAT law, but the value added tax law and the law, which will historically raise the taxation of all of us through value added tax and, consequently, excise duties. Why is that important? This is important because three months ago a brochure was issued with measure three, the introduction of a single VAT rate, here is probably a mistake, it would have been more about the introduction of a single VAT rate, fortunately this has not been introduced by the government, we support that we have two VAT rates, but we object to the fact that the government with the law, with the ZIPRO, with the 2008 draft budget, raises these two rates first to 21% and second to 9%. And we expect unfortunately, because otherwise it will not be possible to close the budget or budgets of the following years in such a public financial policy, that the government will almost come with a rise in taxes on consumption, such as tobacco taxes, tobacco products, alcohol, and very interesting - environmental taxes. All of these are measures taken by the government of Mr Janez Janša in the context of economic reform. If I do. Last night someone said that after two years of elections, the Slovenian economy was the least taxed - the data was wrong. The Slovenian economy is historically most taxed in 2006 and Slovenian consumers will be most historically taxed by this law, the VAT law, as of 2008. And this is data, and this is a problem of law that we don't support, because this is the VAT raising law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In these presentations, the views of the parliamentary groups have opened a debate on one law that is not currently on the agenda, and this is the law on budget implementation and the budget itself. I would just like to stress once again, as I have already said, when I had this opportunity to present this amendment of the law, that the only thing that is actually on paper today, that the VAT rates do not change in this law, the VAT rates do not change in this law. However, the fact is that the government has also decided and retained in this article what has always been present since 1998. When the government introduced value added tax, it is completely understandable because it was a new law, it was not clear what and how it could happen, they had the best estimates before them, and they decided and wrote down the possibility; not that the government voluntarily raises VAT, but that it can do so through the law on the implementation of the budget, which is 15%. At the time, the highest rate was 19%, and I hope the memory hasn't left us that it was 19% and 8%, and we had two degrees for several years. However, there was a change, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this government, which took place in November 2000, was one of its first laws, which it proposed, was a change to the law on the implementation of the budget for 2001. The increase in rates from 19 to 20 and from 8 to 8.5 was introduced by the proposal of 17 December 2000, but was established from 1.1.2001. Since then, and so far, we've had and have a 20% rate and an 8.5-percent rate. So, in our system, there is this possibility that the law in added value has been introduced since the first time, and this is the possibility that it can be changed under certain conditions, not behind the back of the national assembly, because that would be really unacceptable. In a democratic system anywhere in the world, taxes are decided on a proposal from the government or on a proposal from any national assembly, in parliaments and so must remain. And we are still advocating that we keep it, and that is why this article is still written in it. Here we have heard at least two parliamentary groups talking about what should be in the 2007 and 2008 budget. It is supposed to be about this explanation, although we are not currently discussing the 2007 and 2008 budget, but we have only one thing, and this is the 2007 budget in force, which was also adopted in this National Assembly. It is true and we have openly announced that there was an opportunity for the government, if necessary, to introduce changes in value added tax in 2007. We said that I stood in this place when I explained to you that it was very possible that this would not happen, but that this possibility exists, as long as it persists, but should come to the National Assembly with a proposal to amend the law on the implementation of the budget for 2007. I do not think it is necessary to reiterate that we have not come up with such a proposal and that we do not propose that rates change in 2007. Why? Since there are clearly movements concerning economic growth and the enforcement of tax legislation as we have it, and it was adopted in 2004 that there was no need under this legislation and the enforcement of these laws - and as we have predicted, it is very possible that there will be no need. And today, in this proposal, which we will still be considering and will certainly hear some very zealous speeches or speeches about this problem, we will propose something similar. So, yes, the fact is, it is envisaged that, if necessary, the government will come to the National Assembly and propose amending the law on the implementation of the 2008 budget, but not behind your back, only if necessary. I have heard calls to the Ministry of Finance or to the government to ensure that this will not happen. I can't give that assurance, it would be irresponsible. Otherwise, I have heard from the opposition that this presentation or this position, which we have presented so far in the National Assembly, is fair, but that it has not ensured. No, I can't give assurances. However, we have good reasons why we really think that this increase will not happen - because when we planned the 2007 and 2008 budget, the change is, therefore, the 2007 balance and the 2008 draft budget, we actually used conservative starting points that create a certain space for us. And we really don't think that's going to happen. However, if this happens, we will try this in every way - of course we will do it in accordance with the law and also in accordance with the democratic direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not own the position or opposition, but is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Now there's something else about the burden of the economy. The Law on corporate income tax was substantially amended in 2004. Between May and June 2004, the National Assembly adopted all these laws. And what is actually happening now is the law that was passed here, which was proposed by the previous government, and the taxes currently collected are based on this law because it is a valid law. If this government has done something on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, however, it is that we have extended the 20% investment relief period, which is expected to fall to 10% in 2006 and would completely disappear in 2007. This was in the legislation that was adopted in 2004. I will not open the debate that we had yesterday on this issue, what with the reliefs, yes or no, because I think there has been a lot already said. It is simply that every textbook on finance anywhere in the world writes and talks about the fact that reliefs by nature are ineffective so that they do not actually bring it. They bring a wonderful opportunity for beautiful speeches, I believe, because I listened to them myself yesterday and the Slovenian public had the opportunity to listen to this after a direct television broadcast - nice talk about how this will happen and what an attack on economic growth if it does not. However, the fact is that the experience of professional and specific data, not only for the outside world, also for the Republic of Slovenia, and for this there are public documents, proves that these facilitations do not have the same effect as they do when we hear talk about these matters. It's normal. In every tax debate, it just happens. I'm not surprised. This is still an open debate. The first debate was held. The procedure for the adoption of the law is still in place. I would like to insist today that someone feels that the Slovenian economy is heavily taxed, but that they should attribute it to the right source, this is not the legislation proposed by this government, which took on responsibility two years ago, but this is due to the legislation in force that has been adopted in the past. If anything, we will relieve it because we want to relieve ourselves, and we are also going in this direction, in accordance with the possibilities of our public finances rate, as regards taxation on the profits of legal persons, to gradually reduce. It also insists on what I have already said publicly, when we have presented this law to the public, that, as far as possible, we will be able to lower these rates faster, we will certainly do so. It is difficult to predict, the fact is that there is a lot of analysis, to the extent that the rates are falling, to the extent that the tides are then greater, to some extent know that they are also coming. If such an event is to occur and it is possible to reduce it more quickly, we will certainly reduce it. Let me finish. The Budget Implementation Act, which will be addressed by this National Assembly in the coming weeks, does not raise VAT, not for 2007 and not for 2008. It is clear that we have this option in the proposal and, if this option proves necessary, we will do so, but not in vain, of our own free will, but only on the basis of the decision of this national assembly. If the National Assembly then decides on a different course, we will also take a different course. Finally, public finances are not government-owned, public finances are also the responsibility of all of us who have been given the opportunity by the voters to work on their own behalf for the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to ask you very much if you would warn the Minister of Finance that the facts need to be stated in this National Assembly. The fact is, Mr. Minister, that the government has written in a document that is in the National Assembly for which an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly has been convened, I quote: "With an increase in VAT rates from 8.5% to 9% and a standard rate from 20% to 21%... "-- no, it would, no, if it would, compensate for the reduction of income." Therefore, please, Mr President, the Minister here lists things that simply do not reflect what the government has sent to the National Assembly. The government has sent more VAT revenues to the National Assembly in 2008 and this is, of course, defined in a document called, quote, "the justification of the general part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Mr. Squeakl, this is a procedural matter and I have to stop you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u48	I am just asking you to warn the Minister that he is talking about the facts that are in the National Assembly and are linked to VAT, but not that he is misleading the Slovenian public here, that the government will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u50	If it says, "I would," then I agree. [[..]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Mr. Squeakl, do not take advantage of your word, which I have given you as a procedural question. Thank you very much. The first to be discussed in the general debate was Minister Bajuk. Mr. Sasha Pece has been reported. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you. Respectable present. My friend Cwickl was right: a minister in the National Assembly shouldn't be deceiving. Mr. Bajuk, you have deceived this National Assembly and deceived the Slovenian public. With this address, I therefore, on behalf of the Member, estimate that Comrade Squikel did the right thing and that, of course, it would be the duty of the President to remind the Minister, who is obviously misleading as Mr Bajuk did, of this. The government itself is on the rise of VAT for 2008, i.e., the value added tax that we are considering today and now here, foresees an increase, I will talk about percentages, given that colleagues of Quekl are in the amounts, if in 2007 the income from the value added tax will increase to 36.2% in 2008. Where does this increase in value added tax revenue come from, if not from a decision that is today and here under the value added tax law? The fact is that in the 2008 budget you have foreseen the above-mentioned issues and that, as previously stated, you are under special taxes, the explanation of the general part of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I quote: "In the 2008 draft budget, EUR 3 billion 172 million is planned for value added tax, which is nominally 11.9% more than a year earlier..." - more than in 2007. I continue: "With the increase in VAT rates from 8.5% to 9% and the standard rate from 20% to 21%, it will be compensated..." A solid form will be compensated. This act has been signed by Mr Minister, so today do not say that you have left only room for manoeuvre in the 2008 calculation, but you will come with this if anything happens. The fact is that for 2008 the revenue of the budget under this heading and at the expense of taxpayers and taxpayers in our country are increasing. Of course, it is only possible to be interesting that in 2008 the funds received from the European Union budget are being reduced compared to 2007. The funds from the European Union will fall because I do not know, our country, as finance minister, you are ultimately responsible for this, you will not gain, you will be able to obtain sufficient resources, and this will mask the VAT increase. Mr. Minister, once again, allow me to leave one more minute for myself. You're bluffing in this national council! I have read your words from an act defined by you or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and unfortunately, unless the National Assembly adopts an amendment at second reading or withdraws Article 145 of the Act, there will be an increase in both VAT rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I think that even if the voice rises, the argument does not become more credible. This is a repetition of the debate that we had last year when we adopted the 2006 and 2007 budget and also the law on the implementation of the budget. The question is more of a legal nature; whether it is what we have stated that we are opening up, that it is an option and openly say that it will rise if there is no debate or any difference that it is not a deception. This is a fair presentation of what might happen. At the same time, it is clear that, under the current legislation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not propose to implement the 2008 budget in Zippur, in order to change this. Why? Because this does not have to be done now, because in any way we will also have a rebalancing or review of the budget for 2008 in a year, if necessary, we will do so and we will give it a heads-up and make it public. At the same time, as we did last year, we said that this might happen in 2007, but we expect it not to, it is clear that this will not happen. Why did we propose that? Since we have proposed to start by eliminating the tax on paid wages, 20%, we have not, indeed, had no assurance, because when the budget is being made, it is based on the forecast that the best estimates of what can happen are being done. We were confident that this could be done without the tax being raised, but all we had to do was tell this national assembly and the Slovenian public what could happen if the conditions did not improve or, as a matter of fact, they did. I don't see any deception here, there's an open-ended very fair presentation of where we are and why we can take certain measures now. There are solutions, and if these solutions need to be reached, we will, in accordance with the law, come before this national assembly and propose an amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget. As we have done last year, we will also do so in the coming year, and it may prove as it has now proved that no change in the value added tax for 2007 is necessary and that is why the new law on the implementation of the 2007 budget has kept these levels at the same level. That is why we do not propose to amend this value added tax law, which is before you today. Therefore, we insist that the value added tax remains at this level as it has been since 17 December 2000, when the government proposed it to the National Assembly in its previous composition and raised it from 19 to 20 and from 8 to 8.5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Rudy Veršnik. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Thank you. Yes, procedurally. Mr President, I would like to point out that we are at the point of the proposal for a value-added tax law, and there is no reference to any changes in tax rates in this draft law. Please stop any debate leading this way because I do not want to participate in some pre-election zone, tending to quote and demagogic politicisation of these changes. And I ask you to hold a debate in this respect. We are not discussing any percentage changes in this law, and we will have time to deal with the budget and ZIPRA. So I ask you to stop this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Procedural? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Comrade Versnik, you will have to read the law before you say the things you say. 145. Article 145 of the Act refers to an increase in VAT. So much for you. I would like to speak and address the issue to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear government representatives - I am sorry that the Minister is no longer with us - and on what basis did you then work on the 2008 budget, if not on the basis of an increased VAT rate, given that the revenues from this title were increased by more than a percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Look, Mr President, what we are talking about here, and what Mr Veršnik said is no longer clear who is speaking. Mr. Versnik says it's not legal. There's a clear mandate in the law. The Minister says this is not a legal question. It is true, it is not a legal question, it is a question of credibility. The 2008 budget estimate provides for 11.9% VAT growth. For 2006, however, this growth was 6 percentage points. The difference is exactly 5 percentage points, rising from 20 to 21 percentage points. And that's the question. Please, Mr President, point out to the Minister that we are here in a national assembly where we are discussing the credibility of ministers and the credibility of evaluations. The government said it would increase, so 11.9% growth is foreseen. If that is not the case, Mr President, then instead of having a 60 billion- or 150 billion-dollar hole in the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Kristian Janc is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! A heated debate, including harsh words and accusations to the minister, I think they went a little over the edge. But everyone is responsible for his words and actions, so are the Members. With regard to 145th article, about which there is so much talk, but if this were already a de facto fact, it would be wise and wise, in my opinion, that this would already be in the bill. But that's not what we're considering in the bill we're considering today, gentlemen. That's what I think he's holding. What happens if it does and when it does, yes, but it will be when it does! [[...]] That's not what today is. And today VAT is still valid for twenty-eight and a half, as I know him. Is he different? That's the one. But when it is different and when it is different, I am sure that the government is very well aware of what raising VAT means. He knows very well and I think that, if this happens, he will first arrange or seize all the possibilities within the revenue and expenditure budget so that this does not happen. However, if so, it is likely that she has been given the authority to do so. Until then, something else will happen, something will certainly happen, and today this is not the main and current topic, because we do not have it in front of us. This bill, which we are talking about today, has been amended several times since 1999. There are many such and different changes. And last but not least, today is about some changes in the simplification of taxpayers. It's supposed to be more transparent. The basic principles of this law remain unchanged in my opinion, which is very important, and two tax rates remain. There was a lot of talk about that, a lot of writing and telling. I am pleased that the government has come to this decision not to insist on a uniform tax rate, as it once was in Europe somewhere, but perhaps a successful model. Everything in Europe is also not successful in Slovenia. I welcome this decision that, at this point, I think the double tax rate is a positive step and the government's decision that it is acceptable for Slovenia and that the single tax rate would probably be unsustainable for many things, certainly for agriculture, tourism, the processing industry, and I do not speak insufferable for the weaker population of Slovenia, because it would be further hit by the pocket, because in Slovenia there are many citizens who work for a salary that is below the 100 "juri" net salary. There's a lot of them, believe me. And the single tax rate would particularly hit this population very hard. In any case, I am sure that the government has seen it, so it has not changed the tax rate. Last but not least, the statistics are the same as they are, the average wages are the same as they are, sometimes they're still very low-average wages. At this point, the government also found out what would have happened if it had been. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, Koper and Gorenjska, but also some Posavje, Prekmurje, Bela krajina, where wages are essential under Slovenian averages, unfortunately. There has also been a major reorganisation of Slovenian companies, especially the labour intensive industries, textiles specifically, wood, metal, because it has changed significantly in the market for globalisation, so these things would be hit even more by a single tax rate in these places. That is why I am pleased and support this decision of the Government. This bill clearly states that there remain two tax rates, one and two. I hope and I am sure that these too will not change into the welfare of the citizen in the future, and especially those who live on the brink of social danger. There are still too many of these in Slovenia. I hope that, despite these concerns, this will not happen in the face of the upcoming adoption of the budget that will come into the National Assembly. So any simplification, a better law than the previous one, every citizen can only be happy, especially the taxpayers, as well as us Members of Parliament, to the policy that this will happen. Certain things are being simplified, less red tape, which is what every economist, every entrepreneur and every taxpayer want, and this is going in the right direction. The next thing I know what's important to me, the leverage of the pledges is expected to improve. An important message for all economists. I would only add here from 60 days to 30 days, ladies and gentlemen of the government. This would be a step further for our economy, from words to action. Whether this is possible or not, we will discuss this in the next discussion. I would suggest this reduction, because this would be an additional concrete aid to the liquidity of Slovenian companies, which are still too much of a financial non-discipline anyway. This is still a bit of a struggle, especially for smaller entrepreneurs, s.p., d.o.o. And so on. And maybe there should be another government move to be even closer to the liquidity of Slovenian companies, because we cannot and probably will not solve the financial non-discipline that is still a cancer of the Slovenian economy in Slovenia. From this point of view, this law and this first reading I support, this general debate, and I think it is going in the right direction. With these corrections, which I have listed, it would only be an even better story for the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honors are here! I must say that I agree with my predecessor at that point when he spoke of too many socially endangered in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the law before us, as the government is proposing today, is going to hit these social threats even more in the pocket as we raise their taxes. I don't know one taxpayer in this country who would be happy to raise taxes. I must say that I have listened with interest to the discussions of the predecessors of the coalition species who claimed that there is no word in the law on VAT increases. Article 145, second paragraph, gives explicit powers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase or reduce VAT to 15%. And now we're where we started yesterday. You have to get "inside" somewhere, according to your household, the difference that will arise from the adoption of the Income Act. If you are willing to withdraw Article 145 from the law, the law may even be acceptable. If you are so sure that the VAT increases in 2008 will not be, although the draft budget clearly shows that VAT will increase, and if there is no minister, I would seriously urge him to do so when he claims that the VAT increases in 2008 will not, in turn, impose his ministry, his knowledge and withdraw from all the functions he performs if VAT increases in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. For some, it raises the pressure of Article 145, and I would ask you, clearly, by the Minister, it has been said earlier that it was the exact same text, and we know that it was in the previous law, since 1999. However, I do not know whether you asked the former finance ministers or ministers each year for a guarantee that they would disregard or apply this provision if necessary. I don't know. That's what I'm asking. It does not bother me that we have entered other channels in this or this debate, in fact into the budget, but not specifically to discuss this law. I am also convinced that the current Minister, Dr. Bayuk, this 145th article, or government, says she will not have to use it. However, with regard to the law itself, I would have one question, or some law, which should relate to value added tax, which is closely linked to the functioning of local communities or the implementation of investments in local communities. You know that in the case of, specifically, an investment, the water supply arrangements are carried out by a public economic service set up by the municipality, in fact, they charge VAT on these services, which does not give local communities the opportunity to do so. However, I have to be honest with you that I do not know the details of this calculation, but I know that many of the suggestions already made by the local communities have been from this point of view, because, in fact, this means that in those cases where a particular investment is carried out by the local community, it must be carried out when the investment is co-financed by a specific department, it represents a greater financial burden than if it is carried out by someone else, whether it is a public economic service or by some other economic society, which some municipalities have used in the past and have not been in an equivalent position. Another thing we all know is that in recent years, and I personally believe that this is true, for all investments financed by certain sector ministries, VAT is not included. I would kind of appeal to this, or perhaps it's not the Ministry of Finance that in cases where you get a co-financing share from some department that's lower than VAT, that means it actually looks a little bit funny, because in the final phase, all that money is then returned to the country by the local community. Only if it were an option, especially the first part, when I asked the question to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Please. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not want to delay the meeting, but I believe that one of the most important topics we are dealing with in this country is fiscal or tax policy, so I would like to make a procedural proposal. I ask all the debaters, but above all you to direct the debaters to talk when we talk about tax policy, seriously and at least on the basis that they have read the act we are talking about. My colleague Mikolić, proof that VAT will be increased, is the 2008 budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared. Article 145 of that law, the value added tax law, has never been implemented in the budget before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Please, Mr. Pache, I think it was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u70	It's a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica's not on the procedural question. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please. You have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u72	I have a question for the Minister. If he's listening to me outside this room, I'm asking you for an answer. 6,189 signatories are currently in favour of the so-called book tax petition. 6.189, there are, of course, no representatives of the New Journal or those who have spoken out loud until recently or two years ago, of course, that they too are at a zero level per book. The undersigned citizens of Slovenia believe that 6,189 signatories say that the tax on the Slovenian book, given its importance for the Slovenian identity, is a demeaning fact, so we are most determined to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Parliament to abandon this proposal in its entirety to increase the tax on the book, and to set the zero rate of the tax on the book with the refund of the rate tax as one of the priority objectives. This is at least what the state owes to its ancestors, when, above all, through a book throughout the centuries, it has been enabled by today's present and at the same time at least, which owes it to present and future generations. The zero VAT rate is the only cultural tax rate for the Slovenian book and the smallest common denominator of Slovenian omika and civilisation, as well as a small hope and promise for our future. That's what they say. We know. In the past, there have been many answers to why the so - called zero rate on the book is not useful if there is no deduction and how difficult it can be for bookkeepers or publishers themselves. But here was the opportunity for those of you who once stood up for it to realize it now. Mr. Bajuk, the government of the Republic of Slovenia, why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. After all, it's very early on the list, but still. Look, I want to say again clearly and loudly in front of the entire Slovenian public that we are not talking about raising value added tax today. Today we are talking about a proposal for a value added tax law, far from changing any percentage. You changed the VAT percentage on 1.1.2001. I'm sure and I know there wasn't as much debate as there was today, despite the fact that these percentages went from 8% to 8.5% and from 19% to 20%, and there was not so much debate, there was not as much population as there is today. I do not want to participate in the electoral campaign, but I want to participate properly in the amendment of the VAT bill, where we talk about everything else, about percentages, and we do not change them. And all that's been said about this is that for me, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's And we heard the Minister, and if we don't trust the Minister, then I don't know who we're going to trust, but certainly not those who have deceived this National Assembly so many times with different predictions, with different predictions that never come true. And I am also disappointed by the speech, I will say, by the serious debaters who have spoken everything else, only about what is today the subject of this debate. The law foresees changes in the positive direction, gives transparency to the law and these are the things we are discussing today. Not about a change in interest rate. There will be an opportunity, I know that there will be an opportunity when we talk about the budget, and then I don't mind if things are discussed in that sense. I think it's a shame for you and my time to discuss these things that are completely meaningless and irrelevant. Give suggestions and wishes [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Could you please turn off your cell phone?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u76	I'm sorry. I want these things to go in the right direction. Once again, not to deceive the public, the VAT does not change by one centimeter today. But if that is what you think it will be, perhaps it will be, the Minister himself is clear and loud about in what sense and how this law should change if it does. It's not fair, and it's unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Mr. Zagorac, you have a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would ask politely for the calmer course of this meeting, if you have this opportunity or this competence to invite the Minister of Finance to come to the hall and answer these questions so that there will be no deception. Will the VAT, according to the draft budget we have received, be expected to rise or not? If he foresees it, please stop such political discussions as has now been the case with his colleague Veršnik. Do you know what a campaign is? Today, it does not change value added tax, but amend it after October 22nd, what the budget provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Procedurally. I would kindly ask you to, as you warn some others, also warn Mr Veršnik. Mr. Veršnik has forgotten only one thing, of course, we say nothing but support [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u81	That's a replica, that's not a procedural question. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u82	I will present a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u83	You're using everyone's procedural question in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u84	No, no, no. Mr. Chairman, look. The document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that VAT will rise from 20% to 21%. That's what the data proves. 11.9 is the rate, so I would like to ask [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Mr. Squeakl, I have to interrupt. This is a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u86	I would be happy if we could get, and this is a procedural proposal, before Monday's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, whether the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is submitted in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Let me explain my procedural proposal. The Public Finance Act states that appropriate legislation should also be submitted at the time of the budget. The budget proposal foresees a VAT increase, so the deficit is lower and the legislative and legal service has to tell us whether the government has fulfilled what the Public Finance Act provides for before 1 October to submit both the draft budget and the relevant legislation, because the budget foresees an increase in VAT from 20% to 21%, from 8.5% to 9%. Something's not right. Is the law wrong, the law on budget implementation, or is the budget wrong? But we have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, today we have a reference to which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are expected to present the budget in a credible manner. The credible documentation is about raising VAT. It's not a law that confirms it. You even say he'll never be. Then we have a big conflict. Therefore, the President would ask procedurally that before Monday's meeting all the parliamentary groups get this to know whether there are even business conditions for the State Assembly to continue its extraordinary meeting on the 2007 and 2008 package of tax laws. Because otherwise, the credibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in pre-election time says that there will be no VAT rise, is under great question. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's purely ordinary bluffing and acting in contrast. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u88	With the law. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Government officials have heard what you said. On the basis of a record or a magnetogram, the President of the National Assembly will also hear this and that will be decided. I can't give you any answers right now. Here you go, Mr. Rezman. Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Procedurally, yes. I repeat the request that you have just led this session by talking about ZIPRU when it is on the agenda, to talk about the budget when it is on the agenda, and to talk today about the value added tax law and Article 145, on the power of a government with only two points. The first point, which we're not talking about at all, is about authority. At the second point, however, there is not one word about government and not about authority. I therefore assess these performances as a purely verbal escapade and a sharp deception to the public because those who attack Article 145, what does it say and what does it say in Point 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Very briefly. All these questions, which have been raised here, have been clarified by the Minister in his debate quite precisely. Those who weren't in the hall, look at the magnetogram, read what it says. I think it has been made clear about VAT whether it will, if so. It's pure deception, gathering some points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Now, that's enough. Excuse me, don't overdo it, please. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] this is the transmission of this meeting to the public as well. [[...]] Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Look, the chairman. I have made a procedural proposal to clear this matter up until the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You have indicated that the President of the National Assembly has heard this debate by means of a magnetogram. I actually hope that he will hear and that, of course, in connotations, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Why are you doing this again, Mr. Squeakle?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Can I finish? Because I'm going to make a procedural proposal concerning you leading this meeting. I ask you, Mr President, that, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, which states: "If the President of the National Assembly considers that a certain legal question must be resolved at the meeting itself..." And the legal question is this: Is it appropriate that in the VAT law we have the authority to raise VAT, that we already have in the budget, which is already in the state budget, an increase in VAT, in the law on the implementation of the budget, as the Minister himself said, which is also in the national assembly, but does not provide this legal provision? That is why I say that this is a legal vacuum which, of course, has a very important impact on the debate on the tax package. The income is distributed to someone from 55 to 70 billion, VAT is to be collected from all of us, there is no mandate, and the budget with these figures is to the National Assembly. And this budget, which has to be credible. Therefore, I ask you, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, to invite the legal and regulatory services to give an oral opinion. We can be told by the legislature that it takes more time to do so. I will not have any problem if the National Assembly supports such an opinion to be drawn up by the start of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Otherwise, I do not think that the discussions on the first part or the first reading of the VAT law can be concluded, because we have simply two different things - we have a government deceiving that there is no need to raise VAT, even though it is already calculated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle, that's enough. Now, here's what I'm going to say, what I'm going to do. I believe that this is a substantive matter of second reading of this law, so I think that there is no need for us to hurry now and now we are calling for a discussion of the legislative and legal service. I agree with you, what you have said, accept, and I will bear it further. All of this is also written in the record. Once again, however, there is no need to rush it now. That's why I'm gonna do it like I said. This concludes the debate, or before that I ask the representatives of the government whether they want a word. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for your opinions and views on value added tax. Here I can say that the government or the Ministry of Finance will examine your proposals, as well as your opinions. Even now, I would like to identify or answer some of the questions that have been raised. The first question concerns the right to deduct entry tax. In this case, this right of deduction is not linked to an account. Here we have the 6th directive, which defines an account as a basic instrument under which a taxable person can receive this entry tax. We also believe that there are certain cases brought by the European Court of Justice, but this is certainly not a fundamental rule. After all, the right to deduct entry tax is in fact, if you want, a property right and must be proved with something. It is only that instrument or institute that is the account that can be proved. This is the actual position, and also in the 6th Directive it actually speaks of an account or a document that can be an account. The current threshold for transport to entry for value added tax after paid realization is EUR 208.000. And raising the threshold to 250,000 euros from this point of view makes no sense, because each raise actually puts certain taxpayers at the border. Any threshold would be set here, some taxpayers would be at the border to go beyond it or not to go beyond it. After all, it is possible, in accordance with the value added tax law and in accordance with the operation of taxpayers, that taxpayers can also simply plan their business or income or determine when to move to a certain limit to actually change their status here. As far as group taxation is concerned. One of the basic guides of value added tax was to simplify the procedure. In the case of group taxation, it is a matter of considerable complexity of these procedures mainly from this model angle, since it is necessary, for the first time, to determine which taxpayers can enter this circle so that they can make a group account both for the purpose and, of course, for these organisational forms or for what activity they actually carry out here. On the other hand, the whole matter is designed in such a way that it is easy to set up a method, which especially complicates this system. After all, it is also necessary that the directive gives an opportunity here, Slovenia here is bound by the 6 directive to determine this, but of course in this case it has to ask a certain Commission in the European Union about this and it must confirm this. With regard to the simplicity of value added tax and the application of the principle of simplicity, I will also say in this tax reform for once that we do not support such solutions. I would also, of course, like to give an answer to the zero-to-book opinion. At zero rate per book, Slovenia is bound by the 6th Directive. The 6th Directive gave, I say in the past, the possibility for some countries to have a zero rate, for example, Britain has a zero rate per book, with the right to deduct entry tax. Members who joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 were not allowed to do so. After all, such a solution must be taken by the European Commission and it must also make the country a specialty or that this specialty applies in that country. However, with value added tax, even if we have zero rates, all literature, domestic and foreign, is in the same position. Which means we cannot tax Slovenian literature differently than foreign literature in any position of value added tax. Thus, it cannot be only a zero rate for Slovenian literature for foreign literature, not because it is simply laid down in the Sixth Directive. It is simply not possible to do so under the current law from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please log in as domain by pressing any key. I'm asking the government to sign up with a raise. Check-in is on. Four panellists and a government have signed up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. I cannot say thank you to the representative of the government, because you have not answered any of the questions I raised earlier in the debate. I've been watching and I've seen you sign up and I'm going to say, an additional round to the debate. I'm going to repeat some questions, maybe so that, once you have the floor, you can answer those questions. First question. 145. Article 145, which is supposed to be untouchable, is what some of the government's coalition, which so strongly advocates and will not change anything. Does this article give the government the opportunity to change the VAT rate? Second question. Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to raise value added tax in the Republic of Slovenia by 2008? Third question. Given that we have already received the draft budget on the bench, the numbers in the budget, I believe that you will be the same sitting here on Monday as you are sitting today, and you will be able to give us this answer, at least the minister will be, and he will not be, so that he will certainly sit here on Monday, but you can call him to come and answer me if he does not: Does the draft budget for 2008 provide for numbers as we Members have received and we know them to read, raise VAT or not? That's three questions. Very easy for you, for experts. You gave us the numbers, we explain them to each other the way we explain them. I'd like to ask you for very specific answers to clarify once this thing, who's cheating here, who's not fooling around here, who's playing the campaign and who's not playing the campaign. In my opinion from the opposition species, we point out that the figures show that the value added tax will increase. It increased probably in time after the local elections. Figure out who's deceiving now and who's going to the election campaign. Those who do not hope what they should do now before the elections and will do it after the elections, or those who point out that something will happen because we don't care, and this law allows this to happen. However, the draft budget that we have received on the bench clearly indicates that this will happen. Dear colleagues, you know, you, too, Mr President, have mentioned that this meeting is going public. Each session gives its own magnetograms. On Monday, there will be a first chance, respected colleagues from the coalition, that we may read these magnetograms or show them to you that you will remember what you said today. You said something yesterday, and today you're finally explaining something else again. But as soon as Monday, these magnetograms will be on the table, and I don't know what you'll say. We said it wouldn't increase, but it is because the opposition is guilty of having to. Now, please, you tell me, who is this political propaganda and the pre-election stuff at this session?Oh, my God! But if you don't have what every man is supposed to have, you would say that this is really going to happen, that it's inevitable, and you're defending it, and then please don't deceive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Your Honors are here! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its introductory explanation, as well as the majority of the parliamentary groups coming from governmental species, has defined three instruments as fundamental objectives, namely transparency, clarity and readability. Gentlemen, these must not be the goals that law must pursue. The law has to follow some content. If we want to pursue the goal of readability, I don't believe that any citizen in this country can't sleep at night, and the brother goes to law school just like that. Then he'll read beauty or whatever. This cannot be the purpose of the value added tax law. But that's exactly what you wrote in your opening statement. And that's exactly what you're allowing in government lines is the only subject of discussion. At this point, all the government MPs attacked me, the National Party, my colleague Zagorac, my colleague Squill, because we were talking about the content of this law. Because, according to your assessment, the value added tax law can only be discussed on the legibility of the law. Gentlemen, I don't envy you if you're reading the law for a good night, but I'm assessing that there's something wrong with you - just so out of beauty, due to readability. But I would like to point out the matter of the content of that law. The content of the law is you want to-don't want to be connected to other public financial acts. The sum of all taxes is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And all of us, together, all 90, on the websites, and of course the government, we have a draft budget for 2008. In the draft budget for 2008, gentlemen and ladies are also provided for under Account 704, domestic taxes on goods and services and under this Account item 7040 value added tax, which is raised by the coefficient 111.9 from 0.6 to 0.8, i.e. in 2008. More than 5% of the 2007 to 2008 budget, which represents a slight increase in VAT and low levels and standard rates. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, which is before us today and which content of article 145 you are suppressing, makes it possible. And it also seems extremely unfair to me, not only to the National Assembly, but it is extremely unfair that the Minister of Finance, who is the basic, idewarm father of the project of raising taxes in the Republic of Slovenia, has left the meeting of the National Assembly because he is simply not ready to sell out on the tax rise. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about taxes that are subject to all of us in our country. We are not talking about the opposition tax, we are not talking about the tax, I don't know, luxury vehicles, but the government has decided that it will be a new tax burden in 2008, I am speaking in hard form, "submitted" to all citizens and citizens. Why do I hope to speak in hard form? Since the Government has written itself in the context of the document Explanation of the general part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 what it will do. And it will do something about VAT, it will not reduce it, it will increase it. On the fifth page, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stated under indirect taxes that the budget revenues would be increased in the form of tax revenues and increased in the form of value added tax by several times the amount mentioned above. At the same time, gentlemen, in 2008, you are planning to reduce funds from the European Union, from calls and so forth, because our country, the finance minister, I do not know whether any other minister is capable of applying to the European Union's tenders. But don't say it's not the subject of debate today. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is something under discussion and if there is a duty of Members and if there is any duty of government representatives, it is to tell people what their plan is, especially when you hope to do so in the written word, and you do not hope to do so in the spoken word, because you know that these documents are simply non-citizens and citizens. But in order to increase VAT, you have written black on white under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the National Party, we will oppose this kind of work and my assessment, and you will be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. After such a magnificent introduction, which we have just heard, I must say again with determination. Today's debate or today's item is a proposal for a value added tax law, the first consideration. This time, when changing this value added tax law, we are not talking about changing tax rates, but about updating the law to make it operational, more tax-friendly. And anything that has been said in addition to and added can be the subject of another debate. It may be Monday, but it seems to me that everything else is a simple demagogy and pre-election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u105	Mr. Mag has a word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Let us explain to the Slovenes whether this is really demagogic. In my opening presentation, I said that this is not a VAT law, but it is a VAT raising law. In the debate that has taken place, we have shown that we have a dual functioning of the government and at least a dual functioning of the Minister of Finance. On the one hand, he sent to the National Assembly a budget which expects VAT to rise. Let's look at the data! We all agree that the economic conditions in 2007 and 2008 will be somewhat similar, there will be no significant differences. However, for 2007, VAT growth calculated from the data of the Ministry of Finance, EUR 172 million or 6.1% relative to 2006, and for 2008 VAT revenue rises by EUR 378 million or growth by 11.9%. I've been simplifying the numbers in euros because I'm going to point out the difference right now. The difference between 2008 and 2007 is EUR 206 million. If we use a fixed rate of the euro for tolars, that's exactly 49 billion tolars. And today we are not discussing VAT, today we are discussing a package of tax laws. We're at the 4th item of the agenda. If we said yesterday that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is giving a small group of taxpayers - first of all, those with the highest net wages - a tax gift of 50 billion, today's debate with Monday's debate proves that the taxpayers will pay for it. However, Mr President, Slovenia and Slovenia, Members and Members, there is a difference in the distribution of this burden. When we confirm yesterday that the income law is the right law to go forward, it is true that a small group gets 35, 40 billion and that 800 thousand taxpayers get a month for only two coffees, 889 tolars as a general relief, and a little bit more along with the average salary of about 6 to 7,000 tolars, then today with the adoption of this law, if this article is not abolished, if the government does not pull the budget out of a procedure that foresees 49 billion more VAT than in any ordinary year, then today we are showing what this tax fraud is. The small group was given 50 billion, but they're all going to take 50 billion! And after even being said here by the Minister of Finance that this is not true when he sent to the National Assembly a document saying that VAT will rise from 20 to 21% and from 8.5 to 9 percentage points, of course this is purely misleading. That is why I think it is right for Slovenia and Slovenia to say that this is a debate on taxes, this is a debate on the revenue side of the budget. This is a debate on how Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk are fulfilling their commitments. They said they'd unload the economy to relieve the taxpayers. That's not true! They have burdened a small group of taxpayers, but they will be burdened, burdened with the least necessary, paid by all other taxpayers with higher VAT and, of course, will pay the economy. The economy is already paying for this in 2006. Don't tell me who made the marriage! Gentlemen, you've been in government for two years. If you are serious about decommissioning the economy, you could now abolish the tax on paid salaries. When we suggested this to you a year ago, the law was rejected here. That is why today's debate has shown in all its scope and relevance to the discussion on tax revenues in the budget on the content of tax fraud. You have given the small group a lot, and this large group of taxpayers will pay by raising VAT and the entire Slovenian economy, and this is a bad policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. A representative of the government also has the floor. Mr. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I must certainly strongly deny that any tax fraud would be subject to tax reform. After all, if we are talking about the laws that were already dealt with yesterday, then we can talk about what we actually said. To all taxpayers, the tax burden will be reduced for all natural persons. The tax burden will be reduced according to the newly submitted scale. And this new table is made mainly because 15 years of taxation was mainly due to the fact that 15 years of tax burdens increased, including taxes on paid salaries. This is why Slovenia has come to a decision, taking into account competitiveness, international competitiveness, taking into account that we have joined the European Union area, that there is tax competition in the European field, that taxes should start to be reduced. In fact, this tax reform shows this. Taxes are being reduced for both natural persons and legal persons, labour costs are being reduced and public consumption is also decreasing, as this budget actually shows. Certainly we cannot here today, when we are considering tax reform, talk about moving financial flows or taxes from one pocket to another pocket, but that there will actually be a relief, a simplification. All these tax laws are also made on this basis. From this point of view, we can't even talk about the different numbers that have now been said. The figures ranged from 50 billion to 38 billion, to 37 billion, to 35 billion. We can talk about numbers that are written, this is the number 38 billion in the area of taxation of natural persons, and we can also talk about the number concerning corporate income tax, that is 20 billion. In fact, we can also talk about what this is based on, reducing these tax revenues. The budget also provides for a reduction in public spending. Now that we are talking about the most topical topic and we are actually moving on to another area, we are talking about the budget. What exactly is the budget? The budget is a financial plan for revenue and expenditure. If there is a plan, it does not mean that this plan will actually happen. The plan means we're talking about some planned stuff. Only the budget implementation report will actually mean whether something has actually happened. As has already been pointed out, the value added tax will not increase in 2007. It is also possible that, if circumstances like this increase in 2008, however, all other mechanisms will be used first in order not to do so. Just giving a chance to increase something doesn't mean anything gets bigger. From this point of view, such claims, I think, are groundless here. And what does the value added tax law in Article 145 of the second paragraph say after all? It gives some legal basis and binds itself to another law, which is the law on the implementation of the budget. And only on the basis of this law can anything happen. Which means that the legal rules are quite complicated to make this happen. This is certainly not possible without the decision of the National Assembly. This, of course, makes it clear to any government that it wants to reduce income on the one hand, reduce corporate income tax, reduce rates and, on the other hand, increase value added tax rates, completely baseless and without real grounds. Once again, the budget means a financial plan of revenue and expenditure that can happen but may not happen. This can also be said: in 2006 a government deficit of 1.4% was foreseen, but this government deficit was indeed 1.09%.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate, and at the same time thank my colleague Klavori for the difficult but correct management of the meeting. On the proposal for a conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, it is now clear that it will be earlier than the scheduled 20th and 20th minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the beginning of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a real estate tax bill, EPA 1069/IV. We have an hour and 37 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in relation to this law a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the national assembly hold a general discussion. I give the floor to a representative of the Government and it is obvious that this is Mr State Secretary, Mag. Spread out. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a new real estate tax law regulates in a comprehensive manner the taxation of real estate and certain real estate rights located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill will replace the current real estate tax law and harmonise each other's property taxation system with value added tax. Which means that, on the one hand, property may be taxed on value added taxes, they may also be exempt under this law, and if they are not taxed on value added taxes, they are generally taxed on real estate. The subject matter of taxation is the same as before, it is said, any transfer of property rights on immovable property from which no value added tax has been paid. It is also subject to taxation of the replacement of property with another, financial rental of property and various forms of property rights transfers under the real law. In addition, the establishment, transfer or lease of a building right is also established as a new subject of taxation. With regard to the taxation of the financial rental of real estate, which is a novelty in this law, the proposal for a law equates the treatment under this law with the treatment of the financial rental of real estate under the value added tax law. This means that the financial lease is taxed at the time of the conclusion of the transaction. However, if the contract is not fully implemented, which may happen more frequently in the case of financial leases, the tax paid shall be refunded. Under the current law, the tax is paid at the time of payment of the last instalment and of the old contract, which are already entered into financial lease contracts, and will be treated in the same way as before in accordance with the transitional provision. Under these contracts, the tax will be paid at the end of the financial lease. The taxable person shall be the seller of the property or the founder or transferor of the building right. The customer's position in the tax procedure is also borne by the customer if the contract assumes the obligation to pay the tax. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Please, peace in the hall! I very much ask Members to have such talks outside. Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The tax liability becomes at the moment when the contract under which the transaction takes place is concluded, even in the case of a financial lease or the establishment of a building right. The tax base is the sales price of the property and if it is lower than the overall market value of the property by more than 20%, the general market value shall be taken into account as a tax base. However, the taxable person has the opportunity to require that the individual value of the real estate market be taken into account instead. The tax rate remains unchanged at 2%. Tax exemptions include the transfer of real estate to diplomatic and consular offices and international organisations, the transfer of real estate on the basis of decommissioning and other legal measures. There is a new exemption for the transfer of property which have the status of a cultural monument and fulfil other prescribed conditions in the law. The transfer of agricultural land in the context of the comassations, the sale of real estate in compulsory recovery procedures and the like is also exempt. Your Honor! In line with what I have said, the proposed real estate tax law constitutes an upgrade to the existing law and removes some of the uncertainties that have been shown in the implementation of the current law. I assess that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration, and I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Janc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Taxes on real estate are regulated by two laws: value added tax and real estate tax law. The value added tax shall be taken into account in cases where real estate is defined as the turnover of goods. In other cases, a tax of 2 % on the sale of real estate for which the seller is liable shall be fixed. The legislation currently in force for the regulation of real estate tax is incomplete in certain parts, causing inequality between individual sellers, especially when it comes to different forms of legal transactions in real estate. The basic objective of the law is to systematically regulate the areas of real estate tax and to supplement the law in accordance with bond and real law. Thus, the bill also contains all the necessary procedural provisions that are now laid down in the Tax Procedure Act, which contributes to greater transparency. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the systematic transparency of this area. It is important that the new law remove any confusion that relates in particular to legal transactions not covered by the law in force. In this way we will also ensure the equality of real estate sellers with regard to taxation, regardless of the nature or type of legal business concluded. In particular, it should be pointed out that the law does not impose a higher tax rate but retains the current two per cent. In the future, some new exemptions for the real estate payment tax are also being made, in particular when it comes to the sale of property and the distribution of property between spouses. These solutions are logical and necessary. In addition, the bill also regulates tax forecasts and doses, and clearly specifies the consequences of tax evasion. This provision ensures that the law will also be implemented effectively. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the law is well prepared and that it clearly and comprehensively regulates the area of real estate tax. The law is therefore suitable for further consideration and will also be supported by the Slovenian People's Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I invite my next colleague, Saš Pečet, to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Your Honors are here! We have heard a representative of the government talking about the aims and purpose of the law, but only about the reflection we are offering you in the Slovenian National Party Group - what if the purpose of this law is elsewhere? If the purpose of this law is to leave the basic authority of the property tax to another entity, that is, not that the government will be the one that will require the implementation of the new law, but that will be the local community. Allow me to explain. I will read because I will quote: In the context of account 4130, this is the current transfers to municipalities, the funds in the 2007 draft changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, planned at the same level, are reduced by 90.3%, according to the 2007 budget. The funds are planned, the changes are planned for the following budgetary users - and are then listed. I read below: The main reduction in the accounts of current transfers of municipalities in the 2007 draft amending budget is, in view of the 2007 budget adopted under the finance line at the Ministry of Finance, due to the changed funding system of municipalities, which reduces the dependence of most municipalities on the state budget. So, under the famous text so far, municipalities are supposed to become independent with new sources of municipal revenue, which, of course, local communities will tend to tend to because the level of financial compensation is falling and funding from tax sources belonging to municipalities is increasing. Of course, one of the expected tax resources from the real estate sector will be the law that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had announced before but at the same time denied its height. It's a property tax. In April of this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the property tax would be compensated by the municipal decree or municipal tax for the use of the building land. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forgotten to say that all local communities do not prescribe this compensation, that this is strictly within the domain of each local community, how it will decide whether or not it will. If you allow me to continue with my earlier thought, it is my opinion that, in the light of these changes, which must have been in this area, the basic purpose of this law, as well as the accompanying law on registration and the law on property valuation, is only that the government of Mr Janez Janša will not come with a new law on real estate. But this law will come into the parliamentary procedure on the basis of the desires, aspirations and needs of local communities, because we are a funding system or because it is assumed that the system of funding of local communities would change to the extent that "dependence" will be reduced, of course, by more than 90%. And these funds will have to be acquired by local communities; they have to be obtained through legal resources. One of the legal resources, the most important to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to be defined because it will be an extremely painful tax, a property tax that will tax every real estate owner, no matter where, no matter what square age, no matter what age, it will tax everything. But the initiator of this law - and this is politically very wise, human, very uncultured or I will say very hypocritical. According to my assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party, the proposal of this law, which is before us today, in agreement with the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 - the parts that I quoted earlier, namely from that act, are aimed exclusively at allowing the RS Government, when it comes to parliamentary consideration of the real estate tax law, to raise its hands and say: they have done so by local communities, they are the culprits, they seek to make property tax valuations much more than they were. From this title, of course, we will not support the National Party for the bill, we will not oppose it, but I would only like to point out to you the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman next has the floor to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. It is true that we are talking about the tax package ahead of us, but we are also talking about taxes that are not yet ahead of us, which are forecast, which are not under discussion, so it is probably good that we should clearly distinguish what the real estate tax means and what the property tax means. These are two essential differences, and if we understand this, then we will also understand a different way of financing, filling municipal and state budgets. If we don't understand this, then there's no help. I would like to say that the tax function is not only a function of charging municipal and state budgets, but also a function of redistributing resources from those with more to those with less. Therefore, it also has the function of a social correction and is de facto unpopular, without an appropriate tax policy, social differences and, of course, other differences would be significantly greater. The government notes in this area, which we are now considering, that the taxation of those who are or are taxable is not properly treated equally. It notes, therefore, some weaknesses, one of the main weaknesses it highlights, the weakness that we have failed to cover all those taxes that taxpayers should pay as regards these transactions that we are now talking about, on real estate transactions. In order to address this weakness, several measures have been proposed, namely the measures which the non-taxable transactions not subject to VAT should be covered by the real estate tax law. I hope and support the government so that it can succeed. At the same time, the government notes that there is an increase in taxation, that there is a greater number of taxpayers, that we are striving for greater efficiency and, of course, also for greater or more equal treatment of all those who are or are supposed to be taxable. All of this, of course, would also result in taxes paid. However, the scope of the taxes paid or the financial consequences, according to my assessment, are at least slightly different from that of the applicant. The applicant considers that there are no financial implications for the state budget. Those who know that this tax - and some of the other taxes that we will still deal with today - taxes falling under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act, taxes that mean that more than we collect them are lower, at least for those who have a financial settlement, inflows from the state budget. Therefore, the municipalities do not acquire anything, at least the vast majority do not, with this tax, acquire the state, because there is on this basis a smaller financial settlement. I think it is right to say this honestly and at the same time to say that the law on the financing of the municipalities that are preparing is somehow eliminating this injustice. Thus, within four or five years, the municipalities will actually have part of these resources as their independent sources of financial compensation. And so when this is connected, then we will have a real picture of whether this tax has concrete implications for the state or municipal budget. However, we believe that this proposal is well prepared and we support it in its efforts to adopt it in the next hearings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Commissioner Hvauc will present the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that the existing practice shows that certain transactions relating to real estate traffic remain untaxed, which certainly leads to the unequal situation of taxpayers. At least indirectly, this is also reflected in the loss of revenue in the state budget. We also believe that this needs to be regulated by this specific law in that part of the property turnover that is not regulated by VAT, and that is also what the government is proposing. In particular, I would like to point out that in this proposal, the rate of real estate tax remains unchanged, i.e. 2% of the tax base. However, the subject matter of the tax remains any real estate transfer of property rights, including the replacement of one property with another, and only those transactions which are not taxed in accordance with the already mentioned value added tax law. It is also proposed to extend the subject matter of taxation or to cover new remunerated legal transactions. Thus, this tax will henceforth also be charged in the case of a financial lease which, by its content and nature, represents the practical transport of real estate. The moment of taxation of the property purchased on the basis of a financial lease is newly linked to the moment of conclusion of the financial lease contract. However, under the financial lease agreement, which was concluded before 1 January 2007, the proposal for a law binds the formation of a tax obligation on the conclusion of the contract or on the actual transfer of ownership rights. The bill also extends the scope of tax exemptions. Thus, tax payments under the new exemption are exempt from land transfers in the context of quasi-massation, distribution of property, the breakdown of the marriage or of the extra-marital community or the distribution of assets due to the liquidation of the company, material, statusal transformations and actual investment in the context of the establishment or recapitalisation of the company. We believe that the proposaler, with clear provisions on tax liability, improves the legal security of taxpayers. The transparency of the arrangements by means of a specific transposition or provisions of a specific part of the Tax Procedure Act under this new proposed law shall be regulated. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the bill is well prepared and we have no doubts not to support it in the further adoption process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar will present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President, representatives and representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague. The reform programme in the tax reform sector, among other things, foresees a lower tax burden on labour and a higher burden on property. This change is supposed to be achieved primarily by a property tax, which is not being dealt with here in Parliament between the laws we have discussed today and yesterday. However, this is the real estate tax law, the so-called measure number seven among these reform programmes, and I must admit that when I read Article 9, I was actually relieved. The law does not provide for an increase in the tax base and remains at the old tax base of two percent. That's good. A higher tax would undermine real estate traffic, and therefore this turnover would also be reduced and, of course, the role of the market in the allocation of properties between new owners would also be reduced and this would in the long run mean less rationality in the use of real estate. It is good that the reformers initially predicted this, but then they cancelled the increase in the real estate tax. Otherwise, it would be very difficult to say that this bill is a major reform measure of some kind, but it is a major and criticalistic adaptation to the existing law on real estate taxation. The law therefore further clearly maintains the origin of the previous law that the property turnover tax is paid only for transactions where the value added tax is not charged. So in grave terms, the new construction and the first sale to the buyer are essentially excluded. Otherwise, in addition to the classic real estate traffic, the law taxes certain other forms of payment transfer, such as financial leases or leasing, and some form of transfers of property rights, which were essentially codified only later - I think three years later - have been created - a real law and a law on bond relations. In particular, it is an interesting formulation of the transfer of property rights resulting from an increase in the value of property due to construction across borders. By the way, at least two or three newer buildings in Ljubljana have such problems and would have been, if the laws had already been adopted, of course, committed to all of this. The tax shall also be paid from the transfer of the building right under the law governing the real relationship if no value added tax is paid. What can we say about these changes? In particular, they are coordinating the current taxation of real estates with some new forms of transfer that have been codified, as I mentioned, by a real law code. In principle, in the LDS, we do not oppose the taxation of the financial rental of the property, the so-called lease, which eventually expires in the transfer of the property. We strongly object to the fact that the tax liability arises when the contract is concluded, not when the contract expires, when the payer actually buys the property with the payment of the last instalment and becomes its property. The proposed regulation in this law is, in essence, in relation to this leasing solution, contrary to the other principles of this law, which make it perfectly clear that there is a tax liability on, I would say, the execution of a real estate transaction, i.e. in the event of a real transaction. Also, the land register entry of a leaser is not possible before he pays his last meal. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that it is not necessary for every financial lease to expire on the real estate sale, if you say so. Contracts may be broken down and the reimbursement of the tax already collected amounts to additional bureaucratic costs for the tax administration and for the municipalities. However, it is questionable or necessary to clarify further the fact that the very establishment of the building right is already taxed, since technically, the establishment of the building right at the same time also constitutes a transfer. Building rights simply mean owning a building above or below a foreign property. No one will ever establish building rights for themselves. If I own the land, I will not establish the building rights for myself, but I will establish it on the basis of an agreement, a contract for someone else. And in this sense, the creation of the first establishment is already a transfer. Of course, it is also possible under a real law to transfer the building’s right when it is established and used. Person A can transfer this building right to another, of course, if this is allowed in the contract itself. It is now important to be careful that, in fact, there is no double taxation and the establishment of a building right, which is also a transfer, and of course the transfer itself, when it comes to a clean transfer of the building right after it has already been established. I hope you understand. I hope the composers understand me, too, and I hope they'll take a good look at it. We estimate the method of forecasting the payment of the tax liability as appropriate. It is also good that the 10th Article defines in more detail the exemptions for this payment. I would like to say two more words regarding the fears of my colleague Peca. The fears of Comrade Pečet, although not related to this law, of course have a rational bearing on the fact that, in so far as the income of the municipalities from the proceeds of the proceeds of the income, the municipalities will of course strive to increase their own income. In this case, they will not submit a new property tax but will increase their contribution, i.e. compensation for the use of building land, which is essentially the same, and this fact, of course, may cause major problems and very differentiated conditions regarding the taxation of property, because this is actually the law in the municipalities; but it may be another time. The Real Estate Tax Act will be able to assess in the LDS Member Club that it is suitable for further consideration, for second reading, but we expect the proposer to fix the way in which the financial lease is taxed, which must take place when the real transfer takes place to another owner and at the time of payment of the last instalment of the financial leasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Weber, on behalf of the Social Democrats, is the last person to be appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In the real estate tax law, we find that there is a great deal of uncertainty. Above all, it is clear that it is a law or a tax that is the income of the congregations, and it is evident that the government has drawn up the text of that law about it and, for these reasons, has drawn up the text very vaguely. In particular, there is a lack of financial implications for the adoption of this law, which, of course, will be reflected in local communities or in municipalities. The government has made it very clear that the financial implications of this bill cannot be foreseen more precisely and that the scope of such transactions is estimated to be small. Very flat-rate, inaccuracies. Furthermore, a unclear valuation of real estate is expected to take place on the basis of the adopted law on the mass valuation of real estate. The marriage has been adopted by the coalition, and its consequences are unlikely to be seen for a long time or for a long time. We wonder on the basis of what we will evaluate by then, as it is stated in the law that the tax base for real estate will be 80% of the general market value established on the basis of the regulation following the mass valuation of real estates. In tax legislation, the Social Democrats pay particular attention to people, families and, of course, the economy. We find that this law also enforces principles that we do not understand or are not justified in this law. In fact, in the case of the facilitations introduced by this law in addition to other laws that constitute the revenue of the State budget, they do not extend reliefs, but in the case of a law which is the income of the municipality, it seems to us to be an extremely strange approach, because the exemption from the tax is provided for in the transfer of property between spouses or extra-marital partners when the marriage is terminated or during the duration of the marriage or the extra-marital union or the registered same-marital partnership. So we would somehow understand that the government is promoting separation in Slovenia, breaking up families, which I think is somehow not in the spirit of the development of Slovenia. It is further noted that the facilities for the transfer of property in the division of assets when the company enters the liquidation process, i.e. when the company’s assets are shared in the liquidation process, this is a relief or exemption from the tax. It could also be seen from this that the government is accelerating the liquidation of companies, as the tax exemption is envisaged for such cases. These goals are not defined or reasoned anywhere in the law, and we expect further explanations for these solutions as well. However, if we still touch on family and solving housing problems, we can find that yesterday the government has made it very clear that it will no longer promote solutions to housing and living problems and will also eliminate relief. Therefore, this has not been clearly presented to the public either to eliminate the facilitation of the promotion of the resolution of housing and living problems. As a result, tax legislation will have consequences mainly for those with housing loans, and it will also have a negative impact on those who renew their dwellings, or on those who want to help their children get to the roof above their heads through austerity schemes. Calculations show that, as a result of the removal of 4% of relief, a disadvantaged individual will be between 5,000 and 10,000 dollars a month. And if we add to this that tax reform takes everything and gives it to those who are best paid, this is something that we cannot support from the Social Democrats. Therefore, in this law, the Social Democrats also propose to the Government to try to introduce into the real estate tax law a content that will allow for the purchase of a first apartment or for the resolution of the first housing problem a tax exemption or the cancellation of that property tax. This seems to us to be a suitable solution, and we expect the government to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There will be a general debate between Members and Members, which will obviously, given the presence or non-presence, be very brief. Mr. Rezman has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Then we have a big jump on the list and I invite you to the word of Mr Hwauc. [[Not at all.]] A representative of the government, perhaps? You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Just in response, of course. I thank you for your suggestions, opinions and views. The government or the finance ministry will examine them and take a definitive position on this basis. So from this point of view, I would answer just a few questions or dilemmas today. The first question is financial leasing or financial lease. By proposing a solution to the payment of the tax on the first instalment or at the beginning, we have equalled the VAT tax with the value added tax, and in this way we have also achieved that, in essence, the same as the value added tax is excluded from the tax base of the financing costs. Regarding mass valuation, we would say that in the transitional provision, given that the Law on mass valuation has already been adopted, it is stipulated that by the time the mass valuation is not carried out in Slovenia, that by then the tax base is determined on the basis of the market price or as before. On the issue of building justice, the building rights law here refers to two transports, when building rights are established and for the benefit of someone. This is essentially two transports, and in fact this action involves the establishment and simultaneous transfer of building rights, and in this respect it is a one-off tax. In the second case, however, it is only a transfer of the building right when it is actually established. So, according to the government, the law separates these two matters. With regard to additional exemptions concerning this law, we will examine these matters, but of course there is some view that with so-called transport taxes and the real estate tax is certainly a transport tax, it is more difficult to provide some relief for certain purposes and we will also examine these positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. For reasons of formality, I ask if anyone else would like to discuss the fact that we have plenty of time. You know the procedure, I'm not going to repeat it now, and I'm going to start the application if anyone else wants to. A government representative can demonstrate this by raising his hands. Thank you very much. A rare sight, no one wants to discuss. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, that is, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE OBJECTIVES AND GIFTS Tax, EPA 1066-IV. Total time to discuss 1 hour and 31 minutes. This bill was also tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and also in relation to this law, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State, Mag. Wide. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on inheritance tax and gifts was prepared as part of an update of the system of property taxes. It represents an upgrade to the existing system of inheritance taxation and gifts, which has so far been set up by the citizens' tax shelter. Both substantive and procedural provisions are updated and transposed into a single legal act because they undoubtedly contribute to the transparency of the system itself. The purpose of the law is to define the subject of taxation more precisely, to define the taxable person more broadly, to distinguish more clearly the taxation from the income and tax system of legal persons and to regulate transparently the assessment procedure of that tax, both with regard to the more precise setting of individual deadlines and to regulate the tax base procedure more precisely. The government proposes to maintain the rule that tax revenue is the total revenue of municipalities. The subject of taxation will be property, movable property and property and other real rights that the debtors receive as an inheritance or as a gift. An election is also considered as a gift, and securities and money are also considered among the movements. Taxpayers are gifted or heirs, natural persons and legal persons of private law, such as foundations, institutions, societies and the like. The tax base for real estate is proposed at 80% of the total market value established on the basis of the regulation on the mass valuation of real estate. The debtor, however, has the possibility of requiring that the individual value of the property be taken into account as a tax basis for the tax assessment instead of this value. For other assets, the tax base is the market value of assets at the time of the formation of the tax liability, minus certain debts, costs or burdens on that property. For movables, the tax base will be reduced by a certain amount, which means that gifts and inheritances up to this value under the proposed law amount to EUR 5,000, in no case will they be taxed. Tax rates are adjusted so that, except for the category of donors and heirs who are not in a relative relationship with the donor or the prodigal, they will not change. For the last group, for those who are not related, the tax rates are slightly increasing. The exemption from the tax for the first succession shall be maintained. Exemption shall be provided for property acquired by private legal persons for the purposes of carrying out religious, humanitarian, health, educational, research and cultural non-profit activities and for the temporary and permanent enjoyment of immovable property. Exemptions also apply to certain types of agricultural property and, under certain conditions, also to cultural monuments. The law also lays down the procedure for the assessment, collection and recovery of the tax, which has been defined so far in the Tax Procedure Act. In the event of inheritance, the tax authority will pay the tax by decision on the basis of a decision on inheritance sent to it by the court and, in the case of receipt of the gift, the tax will be levied on the basis of the pledge made by the debtor. The proposal for a inheritance tax law and gifts provides an updated framework for the taxation of property in the event of inheritance or donation. Your Honor, the regulation is comparable to that of other countries, and I therefore propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, fellow Member Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and, of course, representatives of the ministry or government. If, yesterday, I will say, at least in the first law, in the amendment to the Income Act, by government representatives, the minister and, last but not least, the coalition MPs have a nice word about the positive attitude of tax or income reform that is supposed to burden all people in our country, then we are actually facing laws that are due to the above-mentioned lack of government budget law; laws that lastly tax people. You know, I'm going to say that it's also necessary to read that small press that the government is deliberately forgetting in the presentations, which is, after all, a logical consequence of a populist government. Because I believe that he is not actually a man in our country, who, in particular, a few days before the elections, actually likes to hear that after the tax reform he will be more burdened financially, that he will not finally have to pay the country more. Today we talked about a law empowering the government to increase VAT, value added tax by up to 15%. Colleagues and colleagues, today in our country, people with hard work earn only 100,000 Slovenian tolars a month. Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek said a few days ago in this House - Janez Janša, I apologize, thank you for the correction - in short, Prime Minister Janez Janša said: "Yes, because this is what people wanted, they wanted a market-oriented economy. That's what we got now." We've all got it together. We're moving away from the welfare state. In the Pure, I'll say, carefree capitalism. Although we are now taxed on inheritances and gifts under the citizens' tax law, not least of all the provisions are laid down by the tax procedure law. Today, only natural persons for real estate and real estate rights and movable property are taxed if the total value of movable property exceeds the amount of the average annual net salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. The new law extends the taxpayer's institute to legal persons of private law. These are: companies, foundations, funds, institutions, private institutions and economic interest associations. The tax on gifts and inheritances is thus extended to the civil sphere by this law. Forgiveness for the first order of succession shall be maintained. However, progressiveness is increased for inheritance and gifts for those who are not related to the prodigal or the donor. In short, the tax rate is rising for this fourth grade. And I'm just going to give an example, for the fourth group of pledges, in short, all other people who are not related to the donor, from the current range of 11 to 30% up to 12 to 39%. In short, the tax is rising. Government interpretation in the law itself: "The reason for the adoption of a new law on inheritance taxes and gifts, or the modification of the law so far, is mainly systemic in nature, since only natural persons have been taxed so far and legal persons have not been taken into account." Thus, a new law on taxation in addition to natural persons will also cover certain, purely certain individuals of private law, such as societies, funds, foundations and so on. Thus, a society that receives a certain amount of money, that is, money, will have to pay the tax. Or if such a society receives an old computer as a gift for the needs of the company or its users, it will have to pay the tax. Even firefighters' societies, pensioners, chess players, dystrophysicists and so on. In short, they'll have to pay the tax under the new law. All good and good, if we come from the fact that we are all citizens and citizens in this country, all physical and legal entities are equal. However, if I read the law further: it is once again more - the double criteria of the country and the fact that we are all, I will say, ordinary mortals only second-rate citizens. The explanation says, "The tax exemption for the first succession shall be maintained." I'll say, thank God, it's not the last marriage, or the nearest offspring of the donor. Furthermore, the law states: "The law also contains an exemption for property intended for the recipient's religious purposes." Dear colleagues and colleagues! You know, this is ugly, ugly to all the other people, citizens and citizens of this country who are liable to pay the tax. So today we are adopting another law under which the richest entity on Slovenian soil will be entitled to pay the tax. The entity that is becoming not only the other economic pillar in our country, but the leading pillar and even the steering wheel in writing legislation, Slovenian legislation. It is a fact, and people are also aware that Janša's government is becoming, and I will say, a farce government. The Roman Catholic Church, through New Slovenia, with the support of SDS, SLS and, finally, DeSUS, is entering the country more and more. Minister Drobnic even boasted that the synodal document, the document of the Roman Catholic Church, was the legal basis for working at the Ministry. I hope that Mr Bajuk will not say anything similar, that on the basis of a synodal document he is preparing a tax reform or a specific law on the taxation of gifts and inheritances in the Republic of Slovenia. The Catholic organization or Church is the only organization in Slovenia that has been returned with feudal property and the largest capitalist and the largest private owner of real estate in our country. Allow only two, three data, the Roman Catholic Church today has more than 100 billion tolars of property. Only through denationalisation did the RDC get 32.4 billion tolars, not to mention other numbers. Today, in this National Assembly, we are adopting a proposal for a law that excuses the payment of taxes, the payment of gifts and inheritance taxes by the Roman Catholic Church or by a religious organization, while this law taxes the rest of the civil sphere, including society. And I'm going to end it so I won't be too long, just a case -- a case where the grandson whose old father is giving the house to have a place to live with his family -- this grandson has to pay the tax under this law. And there comes a priest who blesses this house. This is extreme cynicism, respectable colleagues and colleagues. We will not support such a law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kuclereva, do you have a procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know how it was meant, but it was like a hate speech, and I don't think it belongs in this Chamber, the Hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I reacted to the session yesterday and warned that we would not tolerate any intolerance here. In this case, the presentation of the positions and so on, I've just estimated that it didn't go over the edge. However, I thank you for your warning and, of course, I ask that you present your views in your views, not that you express opinions that are already on the verge of tolerance or tolerance. Please, but we're talking procedurally, this is not a debate right now. I'll be very [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I will try to form a procedural proposal, although it is difficult to design it, but allow yourself to defend yourself first, it was the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group on the basis of law. On the basis of those things in the law, which are hidden, which will be implemented and which, last but not least, point to the dual morality of these governments and which, last but not least, indicate that we are not all citizens and citizens in this country equal. That is why, of course, I propose, if you want a procedural proposal for the meeting to continue at a pace, as also envisaged by the agenda, a brief presentation of the positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much for a very logical procedural proposal, which I will be very happy to take into account. I invite Mrs Polonco Dobrajc to present the position of the SDS. Excuse me! It's mag. Clavor to present the DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u136	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new system of inheritance and gift taxation is also included in the framework of government economic and social reforms. The new bill will replace the existing one, which has been included in citizens' taxes and, as such, represents the source or income of the municipal budget or the local community. In the Group of Members, we believe that there is a need to upgrade and harmonise the overall arrangements for asset, bond and real estate relations in order to increase the emerging forms of these relations. According to our behaviour, the system must be simple and transparent, but without major exceptions. The news introduced by the bill is, in our opinion, mainly related to taxpayers for this tax, which will no longer be just natural persons, but also to legal persons of private law, including companies, funds, foundations, institutions, private institutions and economic interest associations. The value of real estate and movable property shall be taxable. These include securities and money, which reduces the tax base by EUR 5,000. The tax framework also includes property and other real rights that the debtor inherits or receives as a gift. The structure of tax classes, from the ten to the new seven, is also changing. There will be a higher tax on all other persons. Thus we have the first succession, then the second succession, the third succession, in which there are virtually no changes, will be a higher tax for all other non-related persons, ranging from 12 to 39% of the value of the property. We will be careful in our parliamentary group to continue to consider this law, so we expect appropriate additions and amendments. Otherwise, we Members of our DeSUS are in favour of the proposal for a law and we find that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Well, now I really invite Mrs Polonco Dobrajc to present the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members and representatives of the Government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed bill because it considers it to be good. It is already a matter of realising certain taxes in the citizens' tax law in a separate proposal for a law on inheritance taxes and gifts. In this respect, it should be stressed, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group considers that this is a good solution, that the tax remains a tax that will continue to go to local communities either after the property seat or after the seat of the movement debtor, which will have to pay the tax. With regard to the novelty of the bill, that taxpayers extend to the circle of individuals of private law, the following. These are companies, foundations, funds, institutions, private institutions and economic interest associations. It is not true that the new proposal would introduce tax rates for all equally and uniformly. The draft law also provides for exemptions for individuals of private law, i.e. for the first order of succession, for property intended for religious, humanitarian, health, educational, research and other cultural purposes, and for the temporary enjoyment of life estates. However, forgiveness also applies to certain types of agricultural property and under certain conditions for cultural monuments of national importance. The news is about the second, third, heritage order, where tax rates are introduced and somehow increased, but not uniformly according to a particular case adjusted and within the range. Above all, it is important that the exemption for the first part of the line is for the spouses, especially for the children, an exemption. With regard to comparability in this work with developed European countries, in particular with Scandinavian countries, we should say here that the exemption is still something special because the Scandinavian countries known at the high level of the social state have a first-order rate, and I would rather not have a percentage now because there is an overly intriguing percentage. Regardless of all, we believe that the envisaged inheritance taxes and gifts under the envisaged tax reform are good, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next word is on behalf of the Social Democrats, Mr Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Respectable. In the Social Democrats Group, we assess that the proposal for a inheritance tax law and gifts needs to be clarified through the many questions raised in this law. We know that this is a law that replaces the provisions that have been in the citizens' tax law so far, but in our opinion it replaces much more thoroughly and in other ways, as has been the case today, but this is not clearly written in the explanations of the law. I would therefore ask if representatives of the Government could also provide some clarification in this regard. First, let me say that the government says that it is primarily a compensation and that it essentially preserves all the proposed solutions. The financial implications, however, are estimated at a slightly higher amount of tax collection for approximately 163 million, with rates rising mainly in the fourth group or where they are out of line. However, I admit that I have not calculated every basis so far on the euro, but I would hope to say that the foundations are also slightly higher and that some changes are made at this point. In particular, for all other subjects who so far had a rate of 11 to 30%, these rates increase from 12% to 39%. The other thing that I think is essential is that taxpayers also become individuals of private law and that it would probably be much more thorough than it has been with regard to exemptions so far, to clarify what individuals are in private law in order to make it clear who will actually be exempt from the tax and who is the taxable person. I also believe that, with regard to Article 10, which introduces new exemptions for private legal persons, it is necessary to clarify whether these private legal persons also consider existing schools, health organisations, homes for elderly citizens or not. If they count, it's one solution, if they don't count, but it's completely different. Indeed, there is a new type of exemption, and it could also be said that religious communities will be included in these exemptions. And if the religious community for the management of its activities were to be exempt from tax payments, let's say the institution for older citizens did not, then I think that this law is unacceptable and should not be supported and adopted. I therefore ask that it be clarified what this means, making it unquestionably clear that there will be no doubt about it. And as far as forgiveness is concerned, that's all. The whole law or all legislation that we are drafting speaks of the need to abolish, because this simplifies the system, here on the one hand we substantially increase when we state what all and which individuals of private law might be excused, and again, I have warned you yesterday that there is a nonconstant higher tax on income and higher-a-higher tax on the income of legal persons where different categories are included; and not all are included here. In particular, as far as the exemption is concerned, I miss the fact that the government has removed from the relief systems the one with whom it does not yet have an apartment, regardless of the succession it is in. In short, one of the social criteria that has been useful so far, and it would also indicate that it should be preserved in the future. I would ask that the fourth paragraph of Article 10, which speaks of the heritage of the cultural monument, be sufficiently explained, because it is completely unclear how and by what contract this will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. And the last, Mr. Bajc, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The Heritage Tax Act and the Gifts Act is a new law, as this area was governed by the Civil Tax Act. This provides for taxpayers to pay the tax when it is necessary to pay the tax, exceptional tax refunds and, of course, tax rates for individual types of taxpayers. However, the procedure for deciding in case of inheritance or gifts is laid down in the Tax Procedure Act. The proposal for a inheritance tax law and gifts covers the area in question systematically and comprehensively and contains both substantive and procedural provisions. In addition to taxation of natural persons, it also takes into account legal persons who are not subject to current legislation. The law, like the previously discussed real estate tax law, eliminates some of the uncertainties and shortcomings of the regulation in force. It thus covers all forms of legal relations that have natural inheritance or go for a gift, and the law in force does not define them as such. Of course, the law does not affect those areas or assets that are taxed either by the Income Act or by the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. The bill now retains the applicable tax rates and does not bring any specific news from this point of view. Only tax rates for donors and heirs who are not relatives of the donor or the prodigal are being changed or increased. The procedural provisions in the draft law are transparent and also clearly determine the consequences of non-payment of taxes. This ensures that the implementation of the law will be effective and that a fundamental legal purpose is also achieved. The tax on heirs and gifts remains a tax that goes into the budget of the municipalities. In view of the higher regulation of non-contributory debtors, the proposed law assesses an increase in the revenue of municipal budgets by a good 150 million tolars. Taking into account the number of municipalities in Slovenia, the average is [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] increase in the income of municipalities. [[...]] In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed law is suitable for further consideration and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. And an apology to Mr. Janc for identifying him with Mr. Bajec. Thank you so much for your kindness. But there is a general debate between Members and Members, and as I see it, my colleague Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I have to say "thank you to anyone" so that I will not use the constant phrase "thank you" to always come to Tuesdays on Wednesdays and that there is a lack that has already been announced yesterday that it will not be, today shows through these other laws, some of us have been warned, mainly by opposition parties. All the laws dealt with in this extraordinary session should be the product of a partnership that is supposed to be based on consensus but on consensus and partnership, so much so that you can understand for yourself that it is a more violent attempt of consensus. Why don't I support this marriage? Above all, I will be in the eyes of the second paragraph of Article 3 and the second paragraph of Article 9, so that I do not exceed the time limit, but I will wait for the time to be allocated for a more general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There's also a colleague, Žgajner Tavš. There's only a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't even count on these few seconds, but, nevertheless, allow yourself to defend yourself, because I was characterised as an enemy speaker when I took the position of the Group of Members. If the facts about the financial resources, the financial assets of the Roman Catholic Church, are hateful speech, then it is a disaster in what country we live in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Also a government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to clarify some of the issues concerning the proposals, opinions and opinions that have actually been given here in this debate. First of all, I would like to quote the provision concerning exemptions. Here it has been repeatedly said that religious institutions are forgiven and so on, and this provision needs to be read very carefully. The tax is a free gift or inheritance received by a legal person of private law established under the law of management: religious, humanitarian, charitable, health, social, educational, research or cultural activities. This means that it is not the intention of the bill-maker to refer exclusively to one of these organisations here for exemption, but to a wide range of organisations dealing with various activities. And then here he goes on to give another condition, the right thing is to be excused if it is a gift or an inheritance that is intended to carry out such an activity of a legal person. That is to say, when it comes to management, a gift intended for religious activities, philanthropic, charitable, health, social welfare, educational, research or cultural activities. So it's not just any gift, it's only if it's a gift, it's an inheritance for this kind of activity. From this point of view, this law actually lays down a condition for which activities. If this is another activity, let's say it's a gainful activity here, then of course it's not an exemption in this respect either. With regard to exemptions relating to certain other organisations. I initially said that every 5,000-euro gift is forgiven, which, of course, means, if we're talking about computers now, etc., if it's not one very modern and modern computer, then it's definitely a relief here, provided it's worth less than 5,000 euros. With regard to clarity or ambiguity as to who is a person of private law or who is a taxable person. Article 3 here defines who these persons are. In the case of the person referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2, these are the companies, foundations, funds, institutions, private institutions and economic associations, which are also subject to exemptions in Article 9 and, of course, Article 10. However, if it is a person of public law, which was a question not private, but public, then it does not fall under this law, then it is simply not a taxable person under this law. And if it is not under this law, then it will not pay a gift, for example, a tax under this law, which means, if we are talking about public schools now, etc., public schools are not taxed under this law because they are not taxpayers. In other words, if I say so, those persons are simply outside the scope, outside the legal framework of this law, public institutions or those which are not specifically referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2, so that this is actually regulated here. And because of this school, health organizations, nursing homes, which are public institutions and not private, they will not fall under the provisions of this law and nothing will actually happen here. However, if they are private, they will be forgiven in accordance with Articles 9 and 10 of this Law. Well, that explains it here. Of course, we will examine these proposals, opinions and opinions, and the government or the Ministry of Finance will do so and then give its starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. All the reported debaters who wanted to have a word also received it. There's more time. Now you know the routine. I'm not going to mention how this is going. In short, you can sign up by pressing the button or by raising your hands if it's a government representative. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. So, including a government representative, we have seven debaters. We give each one 5 minutes. Mrs. Žginer Tavš is giving up. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u150	Thank you again for your word, chairman. I'll continue where I ended up earlier due to a lack of time. It is true, honourable representatives of the Government, that paragraph 9 of Article 9 should be read carefully, talking about tax exemptions. I won't quote him because you've read him carefully enough. But on the basis of the law for carrying out religious activities - you know, following the current practice that we have in this country especially for the last two years, and especially on the basis of the practice that I have when I come from Maribor, where we know that in the last two years the church has become rich with a lot of things that should belong to it or not - is considered everything. Ever since they got the vineyard back, the vine growers, when they got the sports field, were athletes when they got back, the landscape archive they still claim became historians. There's no activity that the church doesn't do. I wonder, philanthropic organizations, are vineyards possible, or could they possibly be athletes? To this end, this exclusive is given to the church, and it is true that if you read it accurately and understand it correctly, this exclusive is given to the church under this law. You don't tax on the first knee or in the first place on the heirs. But you apologize if someone inherits or if someone leaves all their property to the church. At that time the church does not have to pay the tax because it goes into the sense of the activity of this legal person. In terms of the activities of this legal person and you know for yourself that this can be done. I say you increase taxes for those who are not related to the donor. But I'm saying you're doing that exception again at the church. If I donate to the church, I will not be excused for giving it to her in her activity, and so it will be shown. I believe that something must be done on your part, given that you're in power and you've been promising this institution all along. But I fear that, given how we systematically do this from law to law, we forgive something, we give something, we offer something over and over again to this institution so that before the end of 2008, we may receive changes to the Constitution and there will be a member of the church sitting in this House in addition to the representatives of the minority. I'm sorry, Mr. Kokalj, for nodding so well, but I can see that the church already has enough. As for that hate speech, which was so much said in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, I must tell you, this is not an hate speech. Dear colleagues, these are the facts. The Roman Catholic Church has more than 100 billion tons of property. I will not mention Zvon One Holding, Zvon One then took Belinka, Zincarna, Helios and elsewhere, there is no season in this Slovenia in the last two years, where the RCC would not have something or where it would not have participated. And maybe just to conclude, yesterday I was honored when someone told me, "but you're still so young that you can become something and you'll be rich about it." As far as wealth is concerned, believe me, I don't need a church, I don't give you mine, and like me, I don't belong to a church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I would only warn you so much that hate speech is also what is subjectively experienced. And it is my job to protect the integrity of Members of Parliament and Members on the left and right. I would therefore ask that we really discuss this subject more because we do not have a religious community law or anything like that on the agenda. That's what I had to say. Mr Moge is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we're talking about the last law in this package, we need to know where the starting point was. As you all know, in the temple of tax reform on the altar, we have been set up to fight for the unloading of the economy. Did this law that we are considering today and the laws that we have previously dealt with really accomplish this? Dear colleagues and colleagues, the opinion of "vox populi" and experts is that this government reform of tax legislation has not followed this objective at all. If I sat alone in this place, where the Minister of State is sitting, then of course I would have taken such a move to avoid income as the devil's cross and to abolish taxes on paid wages, unload the economy and somehow live. [[The ad in the hall.]] Do you want to argue with me again like yesterday, or are you so tolerant in New Slovenia that you can tell what you think? Can I? Well, thank you very much. That is why I cannot understand the whole politicisation of the case, when Prime Minister Janez Janša said yesterday, "if we were to follow the path of the balance sheet, as the LDS suggests," which is a pure fiction, "we would soon find ourselves where Cuba is today." The LDS, which led the governments in which Slovenia was at the summit leading the government to come to the EU, to come to NATO, and to all this policy, which is now somehow being upgraded and going on, to say that we have a policy to bring Slovenia to Cuba's level, is just as abuse as if I said today behind this microphone that Mr Janez Janša and his SDS are leading such a policy on social distribution that Slovenia is being taken to Argentina. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u153	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u154	Do you want to come with me, Mr. Mayor and Member of Parliament? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u155	Please, Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u156	Yeah, they're people. I only respond to this under this legislation, which we accept to relieve the economy of how people and the highest authorities - Mr Janez Janša is not who they are, is the other person in the hierarchy in this country, and that he speaks such nonsense, which I have cited as an example of how I could speak, it seems to me to be immature and unhealthy for this democracy to solve the problems that we are being dealt with in this way. I think that this law, which we are considering today, has some effects, that we will give people a few rods in addition to the corner, to increase our good wages, which is all right for everyone, to increase their wages slightly, to have these benefits, others will have those reliefs, but what the Latin expression "quit quit agis, prudente agas et sepice Linem," whatever you do, do smartly and think at the end. I still don't mean that this package is worthless when I'm listening to these discussions here today. Much work has been invested in it, but it does not seem that the main goals that the winning party and its worthy coalition have offered Slovenia, but that these goals are far from being achieved, but that we have done so nicely under the carpet to sweep up certain things, and with a beautiful hand in the hand of "nothing", we can make any small salary go forward. And in this regard, I think, however much this law will be, you will probably support the coalition, so that in this regard such a reform does not lead to those goals that you promised us or that were on the daily menu of the ruling coalition a little less than two years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u158	First of all, thank you for some clarifications. But I'd like to ask if it's possible to give another one that hasn't been given. First. Does the applicant feel that the purpose of Article 9 really is clear enough or not? In fact, it says that it is a gift or inheritance intended to carry out such an activity by a legal person. Let us say that it is a charity or a health, social welfare activity, which is a gift intended to carry out this activity. Money probably always. What else? Property may also be sold, but in a transferable sense, it means that purpose. I fear that this provision is very unclear, and if it can be explained, I will be very grateful. I understand and am pleased by your claim that legal persons of public law from health, charity and the like do not come under this law. I hope I understand that after no other, as far as inheritances and gifts are concerned. And there's no other way to tax you. Third. If we are talking about the second paragraph of Article 9, I would like to know whether it is knowingly omitted or mistaken. Why, though, are individuals of private law not exempt from sports, and perhaps ecology is included in other rules governing these things of exemption. Maybe I missed one, too. I am merely proposing a comparison between these three provisions of the Income Laws, from the income of legal persons and inheritances and gifts, which covers such a thing - here is forgiveness, and there is the possibility of grants or the intentional definition of part of income. I think the proponents fully understand me. Then I would ask what was the reason why the case of the exemption mentioned earlier fell out of this last text of the law, and the applicants did not answer me. In fact, if he inherits an apartment and he lived with him in a joint household and doesn't own an apartment. This was the purpose set out in the current law on citizens' taxes, and it was in one of the drafts prepared by the government for the law on inheritance taxes and gifts. I think he's understandable or reasonable and I don't know why he was expelled. And a fifth. With regard to the accuracy of the solutions, I fear that the agreement to be concluded for the donation of the cultural monument is also vaguely written because it says that the cultural monument is at least partially accessible to the public or that it is intended to carry out cultural activities, with an heir or a gift from the Ministry responsible for culture concluding an agreement with unlimited duration. I would ask that this also be explained, because this could also mean that someone will be given an asset of significant value and this promises to make an open day once a year and allow them to come and perhaps even look at the inside of this cultural monument against payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u160	Your Honors are here! I would like an answer from the Secretary of State as a representative of the Government. I believe that the answer will not be too much and that it is only my misunderstanding. First of all, is it true that the tax exemption will be granted to someone who has been granted the title of his father's inheritance or his mother's? Your law says he'll have to pay taxes to the state. So, I'm talking about the relationship person-old dad, old mom. Secondly, I'm talking about the relationship of a fire company. Under Article 9 of the tax exemption, the firefighting company will be subject to a tax burden? Thirdly, where do I want your answer, if I am reading paragraph 9, and I think I am reading it right, is the inheritance or gift that is intended for an entity engaged in a religious activity being forgiven or exempt from tax? In short, I would like to ask you how valuable a citizen is to the country and how valuable a religious community is to the country. Or the consequences of your proposal for a law that an inheritance that comes from an old father, an old mother, does not matter to a progeny, will be subject to the tax referred to in Article 9; an identical inheritance that is intended for the religious community does not. Allow me to briefly explain or touch on the position that my colleague, Rudolf Moge, explained before me. It was said that government reforms were to be pursued or promoted under tactics to help our country's economic development. In doing so, I cannot agree with my colleague Mohet. The fact is that one of the religious communities has become, according to information of a general public nature, even the most powerful economic operator, not to mention the property of this religious community, which is supposed to exceed 100 billion Slovenian tolars. The fact is, this same religious community - and I don't want to be labeled as an enemy speaker - is called the Roman Catholic Church. And the fact is, colleague Pavlich, that this law speaks about religious communities, so my advice to you who are in charge of the meeting is to know which law you are leading the debate on. From this title, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Roman Catholic Church is one of those economic operators who, not only in the primary and secondary financial market, but also in the telecommunications market, T2 and in all other markets, is very strong in shaping our country's economic policy. From this title, it seems very unfair to me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes the rights set out in Article 9, i.e. tax exemptions, for some entity in society and on the market - we must not forget that it is also very present on the market - in the form of reliefs, avoidance of tax obligations, while citizens and citizens who do not have such assets, which is logical, are burdened at every step. From this title, I am joining the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in any way. We want to achieve some synergies through the tax policy of the Republic of Slovenia. But the fact is, both with this law and the law that was being dealt with just now, you won't be able to do that. The fact is that you only approach a kind of negative, selective tax policy where one and the same economic operator both in the form of an income law, not least all of the five tax reform laws are rewarded or burdened by you, while all the others are tax burdened. And in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that this is not right. I believe that within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia you have looked at that normative part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but I do not believe that you understand what separation of state and church means. This does not mean in any way that the State must support one of the religious communities or all of them in any way, both monetary and fiscal. Divorce means separation. And as you probably know, yesterday, when the law was being examined, a new income was allocated, after the count of the 7th paragraph of the financing of one of the religious communities; the one we are currently considering is the sixth source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much, even for the unnecessary business direction. I also give the floor to Mr Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u162	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. We are talking about one important law that touches all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, some other entities. I must say in particular that it has been written very 'fragile', like all laws which in some way confer privileges on religious communities. This begins very nicely, with an assessment of the situation, on the grounds of the adoption of the law, which states that inheritance and gift taxation in the Republic of Slovenia is now regulated by the Law on Citizens' Taxes. After having certain matters laid down in the Tax Procedure Act and that this new proposal does not in fact bring something particularly new, but actually strengthens and enforces everything that has already been and so on. Also in the introductory part - the fact that religious communities are excluded from this tax burden is not written, but the matter is so well packed, the first-inference exemption is maintained, the property for religious, humanitarian, health and cultural purposes, and for the enjoyment of property for life. It is said that a lot of camps, a lot of ballast, are supposed to cloud this matter, which is then recorded in Article 9. Let us be clear that none of these, in fact, of those who are to be forgiven gifts or inheritances, need not be forgiven except the heir or heir to the first order of succession. Of course, everyone else could pay a inheritance tax or a gift. If not, let's see how much reverse inheritance there is when parents inherit for children and, of course, they will pay you because they are not in the first succession, and what other situations they might find when citizens are in a discriminatory situation, and some other communities, of course, are in a highly privileged situation. As a result, we will not support this law in the Liberal Democracy Group and in the Liberal Democracy Group. Not only because of its contents, but also because of this perfidious way of sticking cowardly eggs into good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. And a government representative, probably a secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I would, of course, answer some of the claims and some questions here. First of all, I would like to say that it is not the intention of the government to expose any institution by means of this law. It actually talks about activities and these activities are separate. Religious activities in accordance with the rules are also separate from other activities, so that there should be no questions in this context from this point of view so that they do not know what actually religious activity is here. This is prescribed by other rules on this basis. The next issue raised is, we are talking about activities and institutions in this law. The issue of exemptions and in relation to the grant provided for in the Income Act and in relation to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons we are talking about donations. This is an equalization of independent entrepreneurs and legal entities, of course. That is to say, if we are talking about donations, then donations are equal to those that can be given by independent entrepreneurs under the Income Act, this is Article 66, and under the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, whereas for natural persons it was not intended that persons receiving these grants be actually equal. This was due mainly to the fact that there is also a starting point or purpose in some way for entrepreneurs, here I consider legal persons and independent entrepreneurs; the purpose for which an activity for which a given donation would be given is usually different, and therefore there are also different institutions or activities for which these donations can be given. The next question concerns cultural activity. This is a matter of defining cultural activities in accordance with cultural regulations, and this is mainly about encouraging such activities, especially taxation, so that cultural heritage in Slovenia can be better experienced. This was excluded from the purpose of this provision, the exemption in Article 10, paragraph 4. In relation to the whole, I would like to say that according to the tax administration, about 80% of all inheritances are in the first order or refer to the first order of succession, so we are actually talking about 20% of all inheritances here, especially among natural persons, if we are speaking here. In general, I would just like to say the following, because this has also been defined. These 7 laws are certainly different and relate to different taxpayers. Since some laws, some taxes are already very old, such as the inheritance tax law and gifts are from the law that was first adopted in the 1980s, it has actually become inoperable and, above all, non-lifely - and from this point of view, because different processes have occurred at that time, these laws must also be corrected. Here, however, I cannot agree that in this case there are additional taxes or existing taxes that correct certain imbalances that have now existed for various reasons that have existed years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we've already sailed to 7. Agenda items - First defence proposal for the Water Navigation Tax Act, EPA 1070-IV. We have an hour and 26 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and also in relation to this law, a group of ten Members and Members with their first-signed colleague, Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mag. Laurel, for further explanation. I'm sorry, I don't have much luck with names today, mag. Lavrich, sorry, shirtz, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a water vessel tax law is part of a tax reform in the field of property taxation aimed at modernising the property taxation system. The current taxation of vessels is governed by a chapter on property tax under the Citizens' Tax Act, which is more than 25 years old. Taxation is prescribed only for vessels of natural persons and is limited only to vessels of more than eight metres in length and does not take into account, for example, the engines of these vessels. The proposal for a law regulates the taxation of vessels systematically in a separate law, which also regulates procedural provisions in addition to materially. The rate of taxation shall be extended for both the debtors and the vessels, as the taxation of vessels is already provided for vessels from five metres in length. The decision will be subject to vessels which are longer than five metres and which are registered in the vessel records or fulfil the conditions for entry into those records, other than those in construction. In addition, all vessels of resident vessels meeting the technical conditions for entry into the records will be subject to taxation but are registered outside the territory of Slovenia. The taxable person shall normally be the owner of the vessel. The range of natural persons shall also be extended to persons engaged in a registered activity where vessels are used at the same time for both private purposes and for the purposes of carrying out the activity or when they are acquired by persons engaged in a registered activity as an investment in capital. Vessels used to carry out registered activities are therefore exempt from taxation and are not taxable. The revenue from the tax on vessels will belong to the municipalities where the taxable person has permanent or temporary residence or his or her seat. However, if the taxable person is a non-resident, the revenue shall belong to the municipality according to the seat of the authority which entered such vessel in the register of vessels according to the regional rules. The tax liability is prescribed as an annual duty. If the taxable person is not the owner of the vessel throughout the calendar year, the tax liability shall be assessed for a relatively short period. The annual tax obligation for an individual vessel shall be calculated as the sum of the general part of the obligation and the parts of the obligation depending on the length and propulsion of the vessel determined by law by the size classes of the vessels. The tax liability will be reduced by 5% of the obligation for each year of the vessel's age in part, depending on the length and propulsion of the vessel, but only to the remaining 35% of the amount of the obligation. The tax exemption shall apply to vessels of State authorities, police, customs authorities, Slovenian Armed Forces, maritime administrations, museum and traditional vessels, to vessels of water sports associations, to vessels carrying out protection and resolution tasks and similar cases. In order to implement the proposed law, the tax service will establish and maintain a tax record, obtain the necessary data mainly from vessel records, in accordance with the sectoral rules, the owner data will be supplemented by the central register of the population and, if necessary, the tax liability will benefit directly from the data obtained by the taxable person. The method of data capture is therefore imposed so that the additional administrative burden of the debtors will not in fact be incurred unless data are reported for those vessels which are not registered in Slovenia. The tax office will apply the tax ruling once a year. In the event of changes in ownership or in the event of the destruction of the vessel at a time for which the tax has already been paid, the taxable person shall be entitled to refund the tax paid or to deduct the payment of the levyed tax and the unpaid tax. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the described characteristics of the bill's proposal, I propose that the National Assembly support the bill as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. For the last time in this package of tax legislation, we are discussing this way of taxing water vessels, for which our Members of our group feel that it does not have a fatal impact on budgets, not on municipal and not on national, but also on those which are affected in fact, it would be possible to discuss, as in some of the previously proposed laws. The law has no particular ambition other than to round up the tax system and to allow the tax burden on those vessels, which, somehow, we assess, are more in the domain of luxury. Taxes progressively and we estimate that this is also right. Some vessels have been exempted, have already been listed and do not show this to be repeated. However, it appears that it is possible to say that, since it has been re-emphasized, taxes do not belong to the municipalities, but they are collected through the municipalities, so to speak, to travel to the state budget and, later, they are correspondingly reduced by financial imbalances. What would be particularly relevant here is perhaps some interesting fact that it is possible to compare two powers in the government. In fact, there was a lot of talk in the value added tax law about the power of government that the government does not have. So he doesn't have the authority to raise the VAT by 15%. Here, however, we have the power of the government in Article 14, but it is another power, namely the power to raise or decrease by 50%, and there has also been a discussion of the reduction, even though we have relied only on the increase. The proposer does, however, say that this should be done when economic policy could be affected. In the less than 10 million tolars collected in one year, this is likely to be a minor amount and in no way affect economic policy. And so the change in economic policy will probably leave the government no need to take advantage of this power. Perhaps they will be in the future, thus showing these amounts, higher, but even then this will not be such a significant amount that economic policy may be affected either in the municipalities or in the country. Otherwise, we think the law is good enough to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Ms Polonca Dobrajc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members, fellow Members and representatives of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a tax law on water vessels. It considers the proposed solutions to the law to be correct and acceptable. With regard to amendments, the tax liability consists of three parts, the first part of the obligation being prescribed as a general part in an absolute amount of between €10 and €50, according to the different lengths of the vessel. The second part of the obligation shall be calculated as the quantity of data on the length of the vessel in metres and the amount of the obligation for each meter. And the third part which is calculated as the quantity of power data of the vessel in kilometres with the amount of the obligation for each kilowatt power of the vessel. In the light of certain three parts of the vessel's life, the tax liability in the work dependent on the length and power of the vessel will be reduced. The solution that vessels used to carry out activities, i.e. vessels which are not investments in the capital of the debtor and which are not used for private purposes by the owner of the vessel and its neighbours, will, in the proposal of the law, be subject only to a general part of the obligation. The solutions thus proposed are, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, correct and will contribute to a fairer taxation of vessels and therefore will be supported by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Pavlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Honourable Secretary of State, Government representatives, government representative, fellow Member and fellow Members, and a nice welcome from the speaker as well! Unlike most of the legislative proposals we have been discussing over the last two days, the present proposal does not float in mud and a social waters, so we will not oppose it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Good tax policy picks up money where it is. Where the property is, where it sits on thick wallets and, of course, in rich yachts. And in this respect, of course, this rule is good, because it is taxation of luxury, which is also quite something in our country. See if someone has a 12-metre-long boat and if they have to pay about 200 euros of an annual tax under the new regulation, he will not be in poverty. And also those who have a boat, a yacht 12 meters long and, for example, two motors in power of 500 kilowatts or, as we once said, 500 horsepower, can afford about 2,000 Euros of annual tax, since this is the amount they will use in a few days when they will carry their yacht either through our own or another sea. Good solutions, as has already been said, are in order to allow for more transparent regulation of this area and also sufficiently simple, we have three categories of taxpayers or vessels. The first includes those who use vessels to cheer up, and those who pay the full tax consisting of the general part, then the tax to be measured on the length and the tax to be applied on the power of the engine. The second category includes all those using vessels for gainful activity or registered activity. Here I must say that this proposal, which is ahead of us, is better than one that appeared in the previous draft, for example, for fishermen would also pay a general part of the tax, special in length and not by force. Well, the current solution is more favourable for them. For example, fishermen will not pay taxes and all those who use these vessels for private purposes, for recreation or anything else in addition to registered activities will pay taxes. Then there is a third category, which is logical and also good, i.e. all vessels of public interest - police, maritime administration, maritime protection, customs and could also be listed - are exempt. So much for positive aspects. We have some concerns and, of course, also a few questions, perhaps it is not necessary to stress that the draft proposal, at any stage already on the coast, has raised a lot of dust, or, if I may say a little figuratively, sea foam. Why? Firstly, there is a fear that the regulation may stifle or stifle the development of nautical tourism in Slovenia a little bit, but I wonder if the government has any assessment of this? Another time. It is good to know what a similar tax policy is in our neighbouring maritime countries, particularly in Italy and Croatia. We have three comparative - legal arrangements in the proposal - Luxembourg, Spain and, if I am not mistaken, Finland, but for us it is more important what is in Italy, what is in Croatia. In fact, the representatives of nautical tourism fear that owners will be forced to flee to other registers on the basis of the new tax legislation; therefore, in other words, they will delete the vessels from our register and enter them in countries with better tax regimes. I also wonder if the new law will have any effect on the sale of vessels in our country. Speaking of which, I'll tell you what. In June of this year, the European Union has prepared a Green Paper on the development of maritime policy and is also setting out a specific sub-chapter for the development of tourism in coastal areas. In particular, this area will be addressed in the so-called Agenda 21, namely, on sustainable development in the field of marine or coastal tourism. I wonder if the government is thinking, and is this also my suggestion that this area be specifically regulated either in the national maritime development programme already under preparation at the Ministry of Transport or in any other way, perhaps as part of the comprehensive regulation of tourism in our country? We must not forget that in this National Assembly in 1991, even before the independence, we committed ourselves specifically to the maritime direction of our country on 7 March with a special resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia. This resolution states that the Republic of Slovenia will, inter alia, support the development of nautical tourism. All of this, of course, must be taken into account. I am not saying that this issue needs to be addressed in this present bill in the next two cases. No, it belongs elsewhere, it may be part of the maritime code, it may be part of the inland waterways law, and elsewhere, but it is certainly worth considering. And the last. I believe that the flow of information between individual registers, in particular in the European Union, is too small and can be avoided in such a way that you register your vessel elsewhere. Here Slovenia could play its role - let us not forget that we are a Mediterranean country - and in the framework of the European Union, if not otherwise, we have contributed to the harmonisation of tax legislation in this area as well. As it is said, we will not oppose this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I will even personally support him if you know how to answer my question or make sure that these concerns are taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Christian Janc, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u174	Thank you. Say hello to everyone again! The proposal for a water vessel tax law is a proposal for a new law, as this area is now governed by the citizens' tax law. This provides for the taxation of vessels of at least 8 metres long, which are privately owned. The proposed law, on the one hand, extends the subject matter of taxation and lays down a tax obligation, taking into account the power of the vessel's propulsion. Under the current regulation, the proposed law also provides for a reduction of the tax liability relative to the age of the vessel and the tax shall be borne by the individual municipal budget. The taxable person shall normally be the owner and may also be the user of the vessel. This solution is, in our view, very meaningful. The obligation to pay the tax also extends to vessels owned by Slovenian residents registered abroad by the proposed law. In our view, taking into account the power of the vessel's propulsion as one of the criteria for determining the amount of tax liability is also very appropriate. We are probably all aware that, in addition to the length of the vessel, its power is driven by its essential properties, which affect both the price and the quality of the vessel. Of course, tax payments are exempt from State authorities, municipal authorities and other similar cases. The proposed law, in order to extend the subject matter of taxation and the burden of each vessel, brings a slight increase in the revenue of the municipalities, but there are no major effects to be expected here either. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will, like ever before, support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The SNS position will be presented by Mr Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Dear President! I hope that no one will consider as part of an enemy speech the fact that we will not oppose the bill in the Slovenian National Party. The law taxes everything, it is said, all those who own vessels more than 5 metres in length, regardless of whether the institutions are either natural persons or members of such or other religious communities. Compared to the current vessel taxation system, there will be a slight increase in the revenue of municipalities from the tax on vessels. The implementation of the law will not require additional financial resources. Proceeds from tax on vessels under this law, the owners of which are residents of the Republic of Slovenia, belong to the municipality, according to their permanent or temporary residence. Revenue from taxes in the case of shipowners, i.e. non-residents, belongs to the municipality according to the seat of the authority responsible for keeping records of vessels. As regards those who are exempt from tax obligations, I must say that everything concerning the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is covered and all those who deserve to be exempt from this tax are covered. I can't find anywhere in the middle an institution that's had so much talk before, whether it has vessels or doesn't have them. As regards the fear that vessels would start mass, or the re-registration of vessels or the divestment of vessels for the introduction of a new tax. Fear in its own way is perfectly justified. It is fully justified in view of the fact that nautical tourism in the Republic of Slovenia represents a good part or a good percentage of the ransom from tourism, which we present each year after the summer season in the Republic of Slovenia. I am interested, and I also expect answers to what that "back-up" plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be if there were actually a re-registration or a major divestment of vessels due to the introduction of a tax on vessels. Some "back up" I understand for sure that the government has, because nautical tourism is certainly important and we know that those who have ships or vessels that are more than five metres longer are certainly people who have something under their thumb, are people who spend, both on Slovenian coasts and elsewhere. As far as re-registration is concerned, we must not forget the fact that one vessel can re-register or register, either in Croatia, which I am not so worried about, given that we are so vehemently advocating the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union that it will, at least in a relatively short time, become a member of the European Union, and those who have registered their vessels in Croatia will also be subject to a tax. I'm more concerned about the re-registration of vessels that happen on the so-called "off-shoes" either in the Bahamas or in the United States. We know that everyone who knows as little about ships and wants to circumvent a law registers his vessel in the country [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] For example, in the United States, which is a Duty Free Zone and within a week, it can do so by e-mail, within one week it receives both a flag and a registration number under the provisions of this Act, then it is also exempt from that tax, irrespective of where that vessel stands. [[...]] That is why I am really interested and very pleased to hear from the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: What is this "back up" plan in the event of a very large outflow of Slovenian vessels or owners of Slovenian vessels to register their vessels elsewhere or what is the "back up" plan in the event of the preservation of nautical tourism in the Republic of Slovenia because of the introduction of a new tax on vessels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members, as far as it will be. According to my records, it's actually just a mag. Squeaking if he wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u178	I have a very simple question. If I understood the law correctly, now someone who has about 10 metres long yacht is paying about 270 euros, and now it will be assumed that he has two 300 kilowatt engines, has a 10m long yacht, he will pay 622 euros. Why such an increase? Second question. I have the feeling that all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a lot of yacht people are going to want to register it somewhere else, or they're going to want to become an honorary consul, because they're going to be exempt under the provisions of this law, or they're going to set up a society for what they call seabed exploration. I have a feeling that this law is relatively innocent, especially some kind of government response, that it will take something away from those who have more and are far from solutions in some other countries where real estate is much more or much more taxed. I would ask for a rational explanation of why this law will make it possible for the income of the congregations to be around 18 million instead of 9 million, if my calculation correctly shows. He's doing a lot of work for such a small increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'm inviting the Secretary of State, mag. It's spreading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Some questions are quite related, so let me give you a common answer. First of all, it's an impact on nautical tourism. This is certainly a matter of linking the impact on nautical tourism with taxation or the amount of this taxation. Here I must say that we have examined the Croatian law and the level of taxation for vessels in Croatia, and here I can ensure that our or proposed taxation, in narration, is competitive, which means that it will not exceed substantively or in certain cases will not exceed at all, given that Croatia has a different way of taxation, that there may be minimum differences in certain cases. This law has been adapted to our neighbours, the amount of taxation has been adjusted, which is why we also anticipate that there will be no departure of vessels from ports or from marinas in Slovenia. As a result of this legislation, which is not a new legislation which is not substantively new, the vessels have already been taxed following the current legislation or are taxed under the current law, so there will be no movement in this area or any additional movement in the sale of those vessels. After all, we believe that from a relatively competitive, someone can also say low, taxation, this is a matter of personal judgment, in short, this should not be the reason for further sales. Secondly, of course, it can also be about re-registration if we are talking about re-registration. I do not think that the proposed tax law should be a reason or no real reason to be a reason for re-registration, regardless of whether the law also provides that if the vessel is registered in another country, the tax should be paid in Slovenia. From this point of view, this law is of such a nature that it actually taxes, we can say in some ways also that luxury property in certain cases does not tax activity and does not interfere with the tourist offer or thus reduce the tourist offer. The government will also consider including or including this activity in the national maritime development programme. In this regard, the government or the Ministry of Finance, given that such legislation is a competitive legislation, has not prepared any "back up" plan. I understand here that this is a contingency plan, that this is Plan B, I hope that I understand enough because there will simply not be significant developments in the area of sales, purchases, leases or re-registration of vessels. Therefore, we believe that the law is of such a nature that it will have no such negative consequences. It follows also other countries in the direction that, as a criterion of taxation, it takes not only the length of the vessel but also, in fact, the power of the engine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Since there's still some time left, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Then we'll start the application anyway. Please sign up. A government representative with a raise if you'd like. Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'll act in accordance with Article. [[...]] But I won't spend all 53 minutes. Look, I just want one answer. In one package, in the first law, the Income Act, you have decided that you will give a small group of taxpayers a year, there a million, two million, we can show a calculation, but here you have decided that if this is also the owner of the vessel, instead of calculating it correctly, but you have not denied this data, let's say that it has a 10-metre yacht, instead of 270 you will now be flattling it depending on whether it has two 300 kilowatt engines, you charge 620 euros, in short 350 euros more. So, on the one hand, you give them a big tax gift, on the other hand, when you justified this law, so I also understood that this is a tax package, and that by doing so the Water Vessel Tax Act will, in fact, decide in a way that Slovenia will have to tax water vessels in such a way that those who are now less taxed on income will have to pay a little more on this property, even though it is a movable property. And my question is very simple: why is there a tax gift of several thousand euros and here 350 euros, if I have calculated correctly, a higher tax on vessels? And then I would ask you how, when you've increased so little, you'll also be dealing with this issue so that people won't be looking for these exceptions, like older boats, sailing, water sports, the honorable consuls, because they can definitely do it. When I'm here, I'd mention the honorable consuls. We have an honorary consul, one of the countries in South-East Asia, Australia, who is the president of two supervisory councils, by what you have done in tax legislation, and by making decisions in the congregations of these supervisory councils, he will be greatly increased in net wages or rewards, and here you will now be taxed for 350 euros if he stays registered in Slovenia or in his case, if he claims that the Honorary Consulate will be able to even fully exempt from taxation. Sweden, Spain, Luxembourg. Sweden is interesting, it decides differently, she says, if the yacht is worth half a million euros after I reject some basic relief or value, it pays 1.5% of the tax base on these half a million euros, of course at 500,000 euros, if I am not mistaken, 7,500 euros. Why does the government of the Republic of Slovenia even tire the Slovenian public, with such a small change in the tax on water vessels, that, as you yourself said, may increase the revenue of municipalities by 9 million tolars? I think the cost of this law is over nine million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Since the government representative has not spoken, I must not give him the floor and you will have to wait for the answer to the next hearing if it comes to it. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. TIME OF DAY - THIRD DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF MINIMUM PAYMENT - EPA 1010-IV. The total time for discussion is 58 minutes. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to Mrs Marita Cotman, State Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Member and Members of Parliament. At its 20th regular meeting, the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposal for a law setting the minimum wage submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The amendment on mandatory participation of social partners in the annual valorisation of minimum wage was also adopted. Immediately after the meeting, the Government prepared a proposal for a third reading law, which was in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the adoption of that amendment, and I therefore thank the Group of Members, which made it possible to have a third hearing at this extraordinary meeting. There is now a possibility of avoiding the adverse effects on the minimum income standard of people who would have been delayed by the adoption of this law. The proposal of this law is in a hurry. Employers and employees have already agreed this year to increase wages with effect from 1 August and have not agreed on an increase in the minimum wage. As a result, the minimum wage for payments in September 2006 cannot yet be increased by the projected increase in prices of living needs. With the adoption of this law, it will be stipulated that from this year's 1 August it will be the minimum wage as the minimum amount that the employer can pay for full-time work, 125 thousand 52 tolars and 56 thousand tolars guaranteed. In the following year and then each Minister of Labour after consulting the social partners, the amount of the minimum wage in force will continue to increase in line with the expected increase in living costs throughout the current year. In this way, the lower wage threshold is set in Slovenia, which will provide every employee with a minimum standard. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. The first shall have the word of Mr Veršnik on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The minimum wage in our pay system means the minimum that a worker must receive, assuming, of course, that he fulfils the full hourly fund. We must be aware that some 18,000 employees are involved in this salary, particularly from the labour intensive sectors, the private sector and beginners. This is precisely why it is important that the height is constantly and regularly unbalanced by the increase in the cost of living. This allows this group of employees to increase their remuneration and thus to coordinate with the increase in living costs. With the proposal for a minimum wage law, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs cut off the Gordy knot, which this year held the usual August correction. Before the law enters into force, it will take more than two months for workers to receive the proposed amount of 125,050 already. The minimum wage in Slovenia is 44.1 average wages. While the share of the minimum wage is around 50% of the average wage in the developed part of Europe. In the most advanced even 56, which should also be our goal in the future. Of course, we are aware that the percentage of minimum wage, average, depends on several factors, on which productivity is certainly among the most important. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the alignment of the minimum wage with the growth of living costs must take place automatically, but that a meaningful tripartite arrangement to increase the increase in the minimum wage, which is greater than the increase in living costs. The amended proposal for a minimum wage law opens up the possibility of negotiating, and we are confident that the Minister will serve this and thus avoid even greater responsibility. We are most concerned about the signals that come from the unions that are vetoing this law, which will mean further delaying payments to those who are greatly affected by any increase. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Germić has the floor on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are adopting a minimum wage law, with a two-month delay, despite the willingness of the parties in Parliament to support this law. In our view, this is not about cutting a Gordy knot by a minister, but it is a delay resulting from the poor and unplanned work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It would be difficult for the Minister to attribute to him an excuse that it was not possible to find an agreement between trade unions and employers, since they were already ahead of parliamentary holidays because the negotiations on the social agreement for the period 2006-2009 were in a dead end, they agreed that the minimum wage should be fixed by law. In principle, they also agreed with the proposed lift, but the government waited until the September meeting and today we are already on 4 October. This law, however, is another proof that in Slovenia the sense of the need to conduct social dialogue is slowly dying, and instead of social dialogue, we get the institution of ruling parties who want to regulate things without consultation, negotiation, listening, necessary analysis. Let us just remember one of the statements made by Minister Drobnič that he will represent the workers himself if the union does not think they should. We believe in the Liberal Democracy that there is no doubt about where social dialogue is taking place in this law and about who are the social partners with which dialogue is taking place. Therefore, in the second reading, we tabled an amendment stating that the Minister of Labour will obtain the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the proposed minimum wage. So the essence of our view is in the economic and social world. And the proposal was summarised by consensus in the Economic and Social Council. Unfortunately, the parliamentary majority rejected our proposal to supplement the law and adopted an amendment that merely stipulates that the competent minister should consult with the social partners on the level of minimum wage. In our view, this supplement does not oblige the Government to conduct social dialogue where and with whom. It is thus not clear from the law today which social partners should be consulted by the government on the level of minimum wage. We therefore propose that this law clearly states that the negotiating place is the Economic and Social Council and that the partners are representative unions, employers and government representatives. Even more so, we are surprised by the government’s evading that this content is clearly recorded in the law. The fact is that coordination between the social partners on minimum wage levels is common practice in most EU Member States, as well as in other countries of Europe and the rest of the world. It is an important tradition of negotiating between unions, employers and the government, with the aim of finding a middle way, a compromise between economic development and social security, to seek social justice. In the LDS, it seems important that the level of the proposed minimum wage is given to the Ministry of Labour for the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council. These are representative social partners, representative unions, representative employers and the government. The existing dictatorship, which discusses consultation with the social partners, is too loose and allows the government to choose for itself, under the terms of "right social partners". Such behaviour has already been seen in its current practice. We might still be able to understand this if it were written today in 1991, when social dialogue was at the beginning when we just introduced it. Today, however, it is written in 2006 when social dialogue is developed, implemented and has a certain weight and merit for the development of Slovenia. The fact is that the Economic and Social Council has always been involved in setting minimum wages. After all, the Economic and Social Council was set up on the basis of a special agreement on wage policy for 1994 and has so far contributed greatly to the successful implementation of basic economic and social reforms in the transition process, played an important role in the EU integration process and integration into international economic space. Finally, the Economic and Social Council has helped to strengthen social justice and social peace, which are key to the socio-economic development of the country. For the sake of this, we propose once again a supplement which provides that the amount of the minimum wage based on that assessment shall be determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work on the basis of the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council. There was a lot to hear, a little bit better than nothing. We can agree with this, and we will therefore support this law, but we regret, of course, that there was no listening in this house, between us, colleagues and colleagues, to support different methodologies to raise the minimum wage. And it is also not possible that when we talk about burdening the richest today, today we can compare those burdens with those of those who will receive minimum wages and with the methodology in which we will coordinate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Potč, on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues representatives of the government! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a minimum wage law also in the third reading. It would be much better for us if the content of the law were to be more favourable for the recipients of the minimum wage if it ensured the greater impact of the social partners, if it had mechanisms to ensure that the monitoring of real value was always the right comparison with the movement of living costs, not only on the basis of assumptions made by the UMAR or the government, but it would be much better for us if monitoring could be possible with wages, it is said that productivity would also be taken into account, since ultimately those working with the minimum wage could be involved. Unfortunately, consultations in the Economic and Social Council have not produced such a result. We, too, with the amendments in the National Assembly and on the basis of the debate in the home labour body, failed to do so. Most MEPs and members of the Social Democrats have, following the adoption of the law in the second reading, proposed and signed, as soon as possible, a proposal for an extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly, and it seems to me or it is right that the law has been incorporated into this meeting. In doing so, we agree that it must be implemented as soon as possible, and I express our view that, on the date of the entry into force of the law, there should be no doubt that the right to raise the minimum wage can be paid from 1 August forward, not only from, I don't know, 5, 10 or 1 November. In view of the fact that no one would refer to Article 155 of the Constitution on the non-response of retroactive application of the law, which then applies if it is to the detriment, but not if it is to the benefit, and this time it is to the indisputable benefit, but I think it is also the interest of the State. In our second reading, we also supported the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democrats' Group. We'll do the same this time. However, I would like to believe that, despite all of this, at least the majority in the National Assembly has listened to the request for consultation with the social partners, because I hope that this moment only knows who the social partners are and that, despite some statements, the awkward or even worse that the Minister has said about the fact that, even on behalf of the social partners, especially the workers, he will speak if they do not want to, know or can do so, I expect that the importance of the social partnership is understood and that we have not come so far in Slovenia, despite the conservative government, that the social partnership is no longer enforced and consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. There are nearly 20,000 workers tied to the minimum wage in Slovenia. The guaranteed salaries, however, include scholarships, which will be especially current as the school year and the school year begin. Since the adoption of the law is urgently needed, in the New Slovenia Group of Members we supported the proposal that the third review of the law take place at this extraordinary meeting and that the law enters into force as soon as possible. According to the bill, minimum wages will be harmonised once a year in August for expected price increases. At the same time, an increase in the guaranteed salary, which is linked to the dose of certain social transfers, is foreseen. The social partners agreed with the above-mentioned legal solutions of the Ministry. In particular, they agreed that the minimum wage instrument should be regulated by a specific law. And this is exactly the last thing we think about in the New Slovenia Group of Members that we see a great deal of progress in the system of bargaining between the social partners. The main debate, both at the home work body and at the last meeting of the National Assembly, focused on the involvement of the social partners in the process of valorising the amount of minimum wage over the coming years. And as a well-established practice in the field of labour law, proposals for legislation in this area go beyond many coordinations, both with employers and with trade unions. Thus, in this area, an important international labour organisation convention has been ratified since 1972, which provides for full consultation with representative employers' and workers' organisations in determining the minimum wage. The amendment to Article 2 adopted by the State Assembly at its last meeting made this even clearer by giving the government an even clearer duty to negotiate with the social partners in setting minimum wages. The additions to Article 2 of the Act, which the Liberal Democracy Club offers for today's third reading, will not be supported in the New Slovenia Group. We are aware of the consequences of what would have happened if the social partners had failed to agree on the level of the minimum wage. Minimum wages are mainly in sectors that are already barely living from day to day. And if the growth of the minimum wage is not guaranteed by law, workers and workers on minimum wages are also deprived of a minimum increase of several thousand. The law offered to us by the government is the right thing to do, so we will support it in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that it was possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to include the third reading of this Act into this extraordinary session and thus allow the law to be implemented as soon as possible. What does this law say? This law lays down a limit beyond which full-time remuneration or full-time pay may not be paid. And this receipt, this salary is small. However, this salary is sometimes difficult for certain employers to provide, but it must be provided. The situation can even show them that even for a tenth of a percentage point, better alignment can be made than the economic policy may have been imposed by a memorandum on the budget. Therefore, it is still necessary to engage in this negotiation, in accordance with the original principle of the European Union, in a partnership dialogue. And any matter that gets better, maybe every percentage point is important to these people. And we join in this by complementing the law with some mild form by giving the minister some kind of commitment, even if dialogue may be difficult, establishing dialogue and having dialogue with the social partners. And that's right. Of course, we will be happy to support the law, and we also want this item to go as soon as possible from the agenda of the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Pečet to speak on the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u196	Your Honors are here! I would point out what has so far been, at least in my opinion and at the assessment of the Group of Members I represent, the most important. This is that under this law we are talking about the lowest monthly salary for full-time work. Therefore, we also welcome in the National Party that a hearing has taken place at this extraordinary meeting in order to conclude the story once. But the fact is, they're still putting themselves on the sidelines, unfortunately, in our opinion, two misplaced matters, which are more important. Whether it is more important to finally make payments increased for growth, or whether it is more important that the level of this payment is also aligned with the social partners. It is true that, what he notes, I think that one of the Members of the ruling majority, that the people on the minimum wage are probably harder to get a salary correction at all, let it be 2% more than to get away from it on time. From this title, it could be understood that, on the one hand, the obligation or consent of the social partners could allow blackmail and, of course, the bad side of blackmail is the shift from payment itself. We are therefore pleased that, in the context of the second treatment, one of the opposition parties who made the content of the law in Article 2 somewhat open and receptive to those who are customers of this title, i.e. people with a minimum wage, as did the Ministry. On the other hand, we are meeting today with an amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club. We will support him at the National Party, but we probably all know that he will not be accepted today. Nevertheless, we estimate, at least in our parliamentary group, that the law has already been supplemented by the supplement it received on the working body, at least in the minimum wage provided, i.e. with a supplement worth receiving, and that is why we will show our support to the National Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present DeSUS's position, Mr Yelen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the draft law on third reading. We believe that the text of the bill, despite various concerns, is appropriate, as it only regulates the minimum wage as a social category that will protect employees who do not even receive minimum wages. We are confident that a minimum wage has to be regulated by the system law, as this will avoid annual harmonisation of wages between the social partners. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as reflected in the 2006 and 2007 draft law, has established a starting minimum wage which is to be aligned with growth and inflation. The social partners agreed that further harmonisation of the minimum wage for gross social product growth could be phased out because they believe that minimum wages have been reached at the appropriate level. We are convinced that there is a danger that its further rapid increase would disrupt payment relations. We are careful about such an assessment in the parliamentary group, as it can soon happen that the minimum wage, due to coordination with inflation, to the extent of its purchasing power, will fall behind in wage growth, which will depend on productivity growth and gross social product. We believe that the adoption of the bill is necessary because it regulates the problem of minimum wages for around 12,000 to 13,000 workers who are mainly employed in the textile and processing industries. In addition, in determining the specific amount of this amount, it could increase by 0.6%, helping beneficiaries to earn minimum wages, which, at least in our opinion, would not burden the economy to an excessive extent. We must be aware that the minimum wage works as an instrument to ensure minimum income to enable a worker to live a decent life, which would be achieved to a greater extent if, as we have already said, the amount of the minimum wage was increased. In the parliamentary group, we will also support the draft law in the third reading because we believe that it will remedy the situation in the past and provide a legal basis for the payment of minimum wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u200	In this bill, however, it is a very simple question: will the government, after consulting the social partners, find that it is better than 2.1% of the point to raise the minimum wage in 2008, to raise this minimum wage even for the effect of increasing gross domestic product productivity or something like that? Why is that important? This is important because budget data and budgetary baselines, which raise the minimum wage by only 2.1% of the points, raise taxation for those who have only a minimum wage on value added tax by six times more in 2008, that is 11.9%. And it would be good for the social partners to find out what real inflation was like or what the expected effect of productivity growth is, and to take this into account when setting minimum wages. This is, of course, an amended second article. However, if we continue to say something else, we will accept the proposed amendment and, of course, the commitment will be even greater. Economic and social partners, employers and employees will become equal partners with the country when it takes six times more VAT money and gives people taxed by 12% only 2% higher minimum wage. That's the whole point of this discussion. I am pleased to see that at a meeting where we are considering tax legislation and in which we will support in some time that the VAT law is suitable for further consideration, we will also consider the minimum wage law. We've done this with great effort. However, it would be right to allow employers and employees themselves, without the Minister of Finance inserting a low number of minimum wage growth, to determine what minimum wage should be. If we do this, the minimum wage in Slovenia from the current 490 will gradually go up to €630 or €740, but not in the next eight years, to a total of some €580. This is a key and fundamental issue here, to maintain dialogue and be decided by employers and employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirco.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Now, let us leave aside the fact that you proposed an increase in the minimum and guaranteed wage of 2%, it is said that the price of growth in living needs was taken into account in 2005, 2006 and August, rather than taking into account the increase in the price of living needs according to the data of the statistical office, which would mean that we should take account of growth by 2.6%. This seemed too bad to you and maybe 200 or more, let's just say that even 400 million, if we remember the debate on this subject, might be more likely to give to the advertising material on the reform measures that we then get in our government promotional collectors. But I would like to warn you, we agreed to accept the amendment of the Social Democrats, which talks about consultation. However, our amendment, which we are re- tabled, is more binding in that it specifies exactly who it is that the government is to be coordinated with. The Economic and Social Council, which you know was established in the middle of 90 years. has played an important role during the transition and even at the time of entry into the EU and should therefore not be removed from the potential partner in the dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the following facts. We're in October today. From 1 August on, the minimum wage should be 125,050, which is the result of a negotiation or rather a non-negotiable arrangement. And today, before the last act of acceptance of this proposal, I am reading in the instructions of the Union of Free Trade Unions, where it imposes on the Council of State that, should their will not be enforced, they will veto the law. I wonder here what kind of advocate they are, that even that minimum increase is not acceptable to people who are actually waiting hard, and today someone has already said here and the increase is in fact supposed to be. In this way, I think that the law defines the matter in such a way that it is acceptable that the agreement is possible. And once again, I'm going to say, whether it's the current minister or the future minister or the future minister or the minister, you're not going to take all the responsibilities on your shoulders and you're definitely going to want to talk. However, if this is not possible, in the background, automaticism, which will ensure at least coordination with the growth of living costs for those receiving the minimum wage, will provide this layer or for those receiving the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u205	Thank you, Comrade Veršnik. Thank you, too, Vice-President Pavlich, for the afternoon session. This also concludes the debate on the proposal, I apologize, I think the time is still available. 22 minutes, therefore, according to established practice, we are moving to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the amendment tabled on 4.10., of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to Article 2. [[...]] I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four MPs. The first is Ambassador Tomaž Šteba.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That's what happens when a random function is programmed. I certainly pushed the last one, but thank you so much, I don't complain about it. I applied for the amendment tabled because I simply do not understand what it means on the basis of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. In an orderly decision, and so the law should be defined, someone has to decide or confirm in the end. But I don't know what this means, based on a previous opinion. Whether it is now an opinion that the Minister must simply accept and then write otherwise that someone else decides, or that it simply means that he has an opinion before him and on the basis of this and the other criteria he does not respect or respect. I would therefore ask that the applicant explain this. In view of the urgent need for and treatment of the law today, I am also associating myself with those colleagues and colleagues who support the law as proposed. I'll back him up, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u207	Thank you, Comrade Steba. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go. There's no more time. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, again. I think that the law took into account the opinion that was acceptable for the majority here in the National Assembly, and we have accepted that. Therefore, our party does not support the amendment proposed by the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u209	Thank you. And the last on the list of applicants is Member Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment because it is not true, as some claim it is incomprehensible. It is written in the context of the situation with regard to the previous amendments which have already been very clear and unequivocal. In the end, he has the word "minister." It is only good that the Minister also takes into account the opinion of the Social Council in this decision. In the social world, this could be an opinion that does not change. But he will eventually make up his mind and not be fooled by the fact that of course we do not have this automation even through this amendment. Now the argument is why I support it. For the third time in this National Assembly today, I warn my colleagues and colleagues that I have enough of this policy, a kind of mercy policy that is created through laws coming from the Ministry of Labour and Family. Now there is no law in which there is no standard: it is decided by the Minister for Family and Work. Who is this minister who can or who takes this responsibility to decide everything? Why, after the draft budget is being prepared, the Minister of Finance does not decide the whole budget and he does everything else after the Ministry of Divorce. Why is there a need for coordination in order for the government to come to this national assembly with a coordinated budget? Take an analogy with the social council and with the social partnership, and there is a logic here that at least let the partners who sit in this social world form their own opinion. They may not have this opinion, but at least let us allow them this option. At the end of the day, we know what we're talking about. I've been listening for two days now in this room, we're talking about, say and write 25 billion a year for these 18,000 employees who are supposed to get this minimum wage. Yesterday we talked a lot about a gift of 35 billion at the annual level that we gave to a category that has a high salary. Just so we know what we're talking about! We're complicated and we're not letting unions and employers have a word here. Here simply these different approaches in two days, in 48 hours I simply will not understand. Let's have the same approach yesterday with that tax, let's have the same minimum wage, the same simple approach in this law. I simply don't agree to this anymore: we have made this deal and it will be so and you must accept it or not accept it, as the last member of the ruling coalition has now come before me. Far from taking that view, of course, or taking that view into account!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u211	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're reopening the procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three re-reported debaters plus one who's running out of time. Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. It is not true what a colleague has just said not to comply with the agreement, of course it is being taken into account. At the last session, we adopted an SD amendment that just talks about negotiating before the Minister signs the amount of the guaranteed salary. However, this amendment, proposed by the LDS Club of Members, is written in such a way as to block the minimum wage, and to do more harm than good, even though it is only 25 billion, but for everyone on minimum wage, any increase, even though it is a few thousand, means a lot. You're playing with a few thousand people. What such an amendment could cause, it seems to me that it is wrong and wrong. And we cannot support this amendment in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u213	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u214	It's true what I said. Because what the messenger now said before me is a demagogy of demagogies. And this one has, I don't master mathematics as much as my colleague Moge, but I think it goes over--to three. I just have to say one more time: I'm going to run the demagogia over three grand to stop it -- I'm going to go to the beginning. The guy who hasn't done this since August 1st is the Ministry. Not because the social partners didn't agree on it, because there's no doing it the way they have to do it in time. Even now, under the current legislation, he had the opportunity to come with a proposal and did not come. I had already discussed at the meeting, when we had a second hearing, that if I could get a 10-year correctional loan in the bank, but in the Ministry of Labour they could not calculate for a minimum wage for two years around and then correct things, as we do the budget for two years, then I must say that this is a great deal of incompetence and incompetence and I simply do not agree to this demagogy. Do not refer to this minimum wage today. Demagogy or a great vacation or damage you did yesterday in the first two marriages, when you gave a gift of 34, 40 billion, who even those who receive it are not satisfied with it. They're not happy with that. They'd be pleased if you cut their company costs, the ones you gave them that money. And the damage was done for this country yesterday, not today. And today you're doing damage again!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u215	Thank you. Member Tomaž Šteba has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In fact, I understand very little now, unless someone wants to reintroduce the quasi-administrative system, where everyone thinks they're deciding, of course, someone - for whom it's clear who. Actually, it's about whether or not we're going to make a developmental breakthrough. It's not about 25 billion and 35 billion, but it's basically about whether we can reward those who create. Because you've already diverted the debate to the other sex, giving gifts, and I don't know what else. It's about taking care of the social level, and it's about making a deal. The modern minister will certainly also take into account the social partners. But you know what, someone has to make a decision, and someone who decides also takes full responsibility for their decision. It works in practical systems this way. But if we want to plant flowers here and play demagogy and maybe fool the public that way, that's not the way it works. I think a clean picture is the real picture. Finally, someone decides, if it is wise, to take into account the views of all partners, including other aspects, and then assumes his responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u217	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. We have three other MPs. The first will be Comrade Tomaž Šteba. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Mr. Dushan Kumr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u218	Since the demagogies were mentioned, it now came to mind the parody that the president of the country said yesterday. In such a discussion, as I have just listened to it when I said it was a demagogism of three or more, and since the Prime Minister said yesterday that if it were not for this power and if such things were not served, Slovenia could be Cuba, I must warn the ruling coalition, and above all the biggest party: we must be careful not to get a real Castro in this Necuba.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u219	Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Of course, this amendment, as stated, creates a slightly greater commitment to the Minister to take this dialogue into account, even if it may sometimes be inexhaustible. But here's another question. According to the proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers to individuals and households, the majority of the burden on the state budget, which is somehow linked to the minimum wage, is expected to be coordinated with the rise in the price of living needs. So the government here is not that key factor in this minimum wage coordination. The key factor is mainly the employer, because the burden on this limit must be borne by the employer. Gross burdens on this issue fall on the employer. Therefore, let us give him the opportunity if employers can somehow agree that, due to favourable economic growth or good balance, there may also be 0.2 or 0.3 percentage points for productivity in these extensive industries, and let us leave them with this option. But this is crucial to me, because the Minister is not the key factor in this negotiation, nor is the government, as far as the consequences are concerned, now that transfers will only be coordinated to the anticipated growth of life needs, it is important to me that a minimum agreement or dialogue between partners is established in any way. But there's something about value that bothers me. We are so broad-minded that the minimum wage, which is that minimum for full-time work, is coordinated with the minimum that we can. We align all pensions with the average of all wages affected by countless factors, not only those resulting from the contribution rate paid by the concierge for the pension, but the average wage growth is influenced by the number of other factors. Would it not be fair to align minimum wages with average wage growth? If we look at these few thousand or 20 thousand people, who also establish minimum pension bases from this minimum wage, it is all one poverty, on the one hand. Here I judge in a valuable sense that there is still a need for this dialogue, which we must pursue as a whole in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u221	Thank you. And it is my duty to open a new round of potential debaters. Please. We don't have any more interviewees reported. So since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, according to the time frame of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 4:45 p.m. As a matter of fact, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'll do it again. Members and Members of Parliament, please take your seats, we will move into the framework of the votes, and we will move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask Members and Members to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. In view of the fact that I do not see a raised hand, I estimate that all voting devices are functioning normally. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on income. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of the Income Act, first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." I see that the desire to explain is a wish to open a list of views on behalf of the Group of Members. Please, those who wish to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members, do so now. Thank you. We've got six people on the line. Mr Ivan Grill will be the first to present the position of the Group of Members. Here you go. You're giving up? Then I give the floor to Member Milan Cvikl to present the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will oppose the proposal for a law on income, because we assess that the proposal for a law on income is improperly redistributing between individual income classes funds which are otherwise intended for public financial use. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the second anniversary of its rule, is proving its Republican policy because in a very small group of taxpayers, ministers, writers of the framework of economic reforms and, of course, several thousand of those with the highest wages - it raises net wages for a few 10 billion total sums, and then, as we will see below, through the increased taxation of the economy, through the expansion of the tax base in paying corporate tax, with a rise in value added tax, with the raising of excise duties, this tax bill stands out to everyone else in Slovenia. At the proposal of Minister Bajuk, the government of Mr Janez Janš has drawn up a proposal for reforms that are not reforms; only a form has been left of reforms, as has been said, are very large tax redistributions, where a small group of non-essentials receives a single BMW for a single government period, while others are available for two coffees. However, as we will see on Monday at the 2008 state budget, you expect to raise the value added tax to 21% - the general rate and 9% - the lower rate, this poll taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and distributed to a small group, paid by the population of Slovenian taxpayers, paid by the population of those to whom we will raise the minimum wage for a total of 2 percentage points in the minimum wage law today, and decided by the government in 2008 to raise the VAT by 6 times more, by 12 percentage points. Therefore, the Income Act, where the basic tax sin begins, where tax fraud begins, is not appropriate, as it renders the least of the necessary burdens necessary in an entirely unnecessary way. We oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u224	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Robert Hrovat. [[He's quitting.]] It is my duty now to open applications for the views of Members and Members. Please. We have four MPs. The first one is Comrade Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. We have already been reported for the position of the Group of Members, and we have not yet received the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u226	I'm sorry, I must have missed you. You have the floor, please, to present your position. Several Members of Parliament, including three of them from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, have applied. The three cannot represent the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, so I apologized to you for missing you. You have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting on my behalf to the President, to the Minister with his co-workers, to all Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that we will support the proposal for a law in our parliamentary group as suitable for further consideration. We will support it because we believe that a gift that will reduce budget revenues by 37 billion or almost 38 billion is not only a gift to those who will receive higher wages, but also a gift to companies who will have better conditions to manage it. Already in the presentation of our position, we said that there was a major problem when we talked about the law on pay taxes, that companies were burdened in particular by overloading highly skilled labour. I think it relieves itself, I think, of the fact that this will also bring about less pressure on wages in the future, and I think it will put less pressure on these workers to go abroad, and not least, I think it is possible in the gross wage system to distribute this amount among employers and employees. While some do not agree, we agree in the Group of Members, so we will support the bill. We agree, however, that some of the comments that have been made in the public debate have also been in place and that any comment that is justified on the working body will also be supported by us as the starting point of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u228	Thank you. As we said earlier, we are moving on to a presentation of personal views. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I'll support this marriage. I think that this is a good thing, if not because of another, already here, that these bureaucratic, many bureaucratic matters will be reduced, not least people will get their income calculated and will just sign it unless they agree with it. This means a reduction in administration. As far as income classes are concerned, I would point out that there will now be more people to raise the threshold for a minimum of just over a million 300 thousand to a million 600 thousand, which means that more people will come to this lower 16% income class. The same in those higher income classes. I think it's okay, and that most citizens will gain this way because they will end up paying less income. As far as the highest rates or the highest wages are concerned, I think the owners will come up with a long-term idea of what they're going to do with the highest wages, whether they're going to burden their own company with these salaries or not. That is how I see no such reservations here, and I think that this proposal is this new law, that it is very good and commendable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u230	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go. You're giving up. My colleague, Milan Cwickl, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I'm not giving up because some things need to be said again. Neither the tolar nor the tolar will reduce the tax burden on Slovenian companies due to the Income Act! Not even for a tolar! As we will see later in the law on corporate income tax, however, the overall tax burden on Slovenian companies will increase. That is why this first law in the package of seven that we are considering today does not meet its objective and this objective has been enshrined in some reforms as a burden on the economy. Unfortunately, this is not what you achieve with this bill. That's why I'm going to oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u232	Thank you. And the last one on the list so far is Mrs Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Dear Members. I will not support this law alone, I will argue with the argument that it is inconsistent with the development strategy of Slovenia and with the basic development documents in this country. I feel like the minister who proposed this law or the government at his initiative doesn't know these documents. In fact, he had two options: he could limit the amount of social contributions to a certain amount, as proposed by all economists and supported by union representatives. This would relieve businesses and increase competitiveness. Another option to go along with this would be the immediate abolition of the tax on the payment sheet. Both measures would have immediate effects on the decommissioning of the economy and would in no way undermine the relationship between net salaries. Now we have a different logic. Gross wages and costs for companies remain unchanged and net wages are falling in order to increase social distribution. From this point of view, there will also be pressure from trade unions on higher wages. If the government wanted to use this law to benefit the economy, it did not, it achieved exactly the opposite effect, it disrupted some fragile balance while not burdening businesses. And because he went about this reform in the wrong way, I object to this law. It's not a problem of progression. I agree that it must be reduced, but it is reduced in such a way as to immediately abolish the tax on the payment sheet, in a way that reduces the maximum amount of social contributions that an individual has to pay. This is how the company is burdened. Not by keeping the gross wages unchanged, but by breaking the net wages ratio. This is completely wrong, and therefore the economists are against it and, of course, they are against it. That is why I cannot support and oppose this law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u234	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 29. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on corporate income tax at first reading is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three registered members on the list: Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. If we have discussed the tax on natural persons in the previous paragraph and have found that for a long time the State is prepared to give up part of the tax and that it will also be known directly in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the law under this point that the State renounces the work of taxes on legal persons. It is the fact that the overall tax rate is gradually falling from the current 25% to 20%, which we will achieve in 2010. At the same time, the state budget will be reduced to around 40 billion Slovenian tolars, and this is essentially the direct contribution of the state to deplete the economy, to become more competitive, to invest more in development and, consequently, to achieve greater prosperity for all citizens and citizens. The law brings another set of benefits or simplifications, for example the elimination of double taxation, the elimination of double economic taxation, the proposal to recognise long-term reserves of 50% as tax-recognised expenditure already in their design, thus, of course, taking over some of the risks of the taxpayers and thus creating a more favourable tax environment. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is a very important step towards further creating more favourable conditions for the functioning of the economy. We do not agree with some flat-rate estimates that the law does not bring burdens, that an effective tax rate is even increasing, that there are no calculations for this, and that is just to share some assessments, which I do not think is right for this assembly, but also for the Slovenian public, of course. Thus, by reducing the general tax rate, the economy is burdened and this is also the basic objective of this government and these ruling coalitions, which is why we support it in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u236	Thank you. Peace in the hall, please. Member Milan Cvikl will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The only thing that has a word is Ambassador Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u237	I believe that it is very difficult for Members to understand which parties they are from, because, in principle, the Democrats should, in principle, oppose this law; but I have long said that this is not a Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is a purely ordinary SRS or a Slovenian Republican Party. Why? And I will show on the data that, of course, there is evidence that effective taxation of the economy is increasing. In 2004, in the last year, so-called 12-year reigns, 124 billion were in the state budget and effective taxation was about 12.3% of the point, about 10 billion for one percentage point of effective taxation. In 2007, in the budget we are going to adopt, because after two years of the government of Janša, the government has still failed to change the bad laws of the so-called Robbins government, and this tax is 24 times that 10 billion by 1% or 246 billion. Therefore, effective taxation, gentlemen from the Slovenian Republican Party, is twice as high, these are the data of the Minister of Finance. And to say that you will support the law that abolishes relief for the first job, which removes the benefits of hiring those who are 12 months in the employment institution, tell people in Krk that now that Vipap will be closed and 250 people will go on the road there and sit in the employment office for 12 months, and some small entrepreneur will not be able to hire them, because there is no more tax relief that this is to blame I do not know which Maramorov or Rob’s reform, that is little for the hair attracted. The fact is that you are abolishing the ease of equipment, the fact is that by this law you are abolishing definitive relief for first employment, hard-working doctors of science and that you are expanding the tax base by changing the depreciation rates. And for 15 years, the Republic of Slovenia has maintained family silver through various forms of reservation, and now in 2007, the Janševa government will simply spend it, so effective taxation of the economy is twice as high as it was in the previous government, so we are not in Cuba, but we are already in Argentina because there is high taxation and because we have a high government debt. And these are facts, these are numbers, gentlemen, I am sorry that they are so bad, so in the House of Liberal Democracy we will not support the law on corporate income tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u238	Thank you. Once again, I ask all Members present and Members not to disturb the speaker. Comrade Jerovšek, this applies specifically to you. I give the floor to Mr Martin Mikolić to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the law is suitable for further consideration because it contains good solutions. In 2007, it reduces the tax base or leaves businesses with 20 billion tolls, including a reduction in the tax on paid salaries, an additional 26 billion tolls, then it is certainly only a lie that the tax year or the burden on the economy will be in 2007. And certainly such statements as we hear here in the National Assembly may not belong here, especially the deception of the people, the viewers who watch or observe us. However, I must say that in the New Slovenia Group of Members we stressed in the debate that we are committed to regional relief in terms of coherent regional development. We strongly support regional facilitations in terms of the R & D incentives, and if the ministry finds any other solution that would also attract investors investing in these areas, we will certainly support such a solution. We certainly believe that marriage is good, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u240	Thank you. I am opening the application procedure for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Please. I give my word to Mr. Matthew Lakhovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I cannot support this law alone for the following reasons. Firstly, the corporate tax rate is actually increasing, from 16.5 to 18.5%. The claims that there were no calculations here to confirm this are ridiculous. Finally, it is the government that should come with calculations and prove that the actual rate of taxation is decreasing. We're proving that it's increasing, for the following reasons. Firstly, all the positive effects of this law are introduced by the delay, the abolition of the tax on paid wages by 2009, the nominal rates of corporate taxation are reduced until 2010 - in short, with the delay. But when we talk about negative effects, they come immediately. Investment incentives are being reduced or eliminated immediately; secondly, depreciation rates are falling immediately; incentives for the employment of young doctors of science, long-term unemployed or interns, which companies have been able to impose even as a cost, as 30% of gross wages were considered to be a relief and are being abolished immediately. In short, positive effects with a large delay, negative immediately. The Minister of Finance's arguments are worrisome. If he says that investment incentives are not relevant to investment activity, see for himself he denied. Why, then, did he retain the investment aid exclusively for investment in research equipment and development? In short, why does this keep up if it really doesn't affect investment dynamics? Of course they do! And that's why it's wrong, which is why it's really wrong. The effective tax rate is increasing, as the representatives of the economy also point out, and, of course, I cannot support and oppose this law alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u242	Thank you. Member Stana Pike has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u243	Thank you. I will support this law myself, for a simple reason, because it is aimed at increasing employment, increasing economic growth and reducing unemployment. As you probably know, economic growth is already very large and unemployment is the least. Clearly, any relief directed at this is welcome. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. As for Vipapa and the workers from Krske, I must say that we should think about this when you were selling Vipap without any guarantees and without any firm assurance that some of the profits will invest in the development and renewal of technology, and so write down the blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u244	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u245	Thank you. It is a pity that there is no Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because, of course, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs would say that unemployment is shrinking, but the problem of the unemployed is getting worse in the structure, increasing the number of unemployed first-time job seekers and increasing the number of hard-to-employed people. And today, in principle with you, Mr Member, you say it is right to stop this relief. I already said in the debate yesterday that I do not understand this government as if only the Minister of Finance sat in this government. The Minister of Finance will decide by means of a sub-legislative act, whose facilitations, whose research and development are appropriate - as if the Minister of Science is no longer a Minister of Science; and the Minister of Labour, Families and Social Affairs has allowed the Minister of Finance to abolish two key instruments through the law on corporate income tax, which have improved structural unemployment. See, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, along with other governments, is explaining what Europe will do to implement the Lisbon Strategy - to increase employment and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, through today's confirmed first reading of the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, cut one of the key instruments. This is a bad policy, but I understand that it is necessary to do this because in the Income Act you distributed too many tens of billions. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, that you find this funny, it is sad for me, but of course it is in line with the Republican policy of this government, and I understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u246	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 43 and 28 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a tax procedure law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Tax Procedure Act, first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Please. Can we get to the vote? In a personal name? I'm opening a procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the public. Please. Mrs. Possonec, if I understand you correctly, you're giving up. There's a member of Parliament, Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u247	I will not oppose this law. I will not oppose him because I have the feeling that this is primarily an attempt by the new Director-General of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to record a tax procedure that will facilitate his work. However, we will be very careful to monitor whether really 700 million will be saved on material costs, as has been said today, whether the tax procedure will really be fully enforced. Of course, this law, such as today's debate, has shown that, from the great, narrated, 'promise' in the framework of economic reforms, 22 measures have been envisaged for implementation in this law, a good half has been established, if you want, of course 2/3. However, as I said, I will not oppose the law, but in view of the opposition to the law on income and the law on corporate income tax and the VAT law, of course, I will assess that this law is not even necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u248	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. The Law on the Tax Procedure is aimed in the right direction, giving a lot of emphasis to electronic commerce, simplifying the procedures themselves, ensuring a more equitable position between taxpayers and tax administration. Then, at the same time, it looks at rationalisation, introduces easier delivery of decisions and thus saves on sending costs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and personally, we believe that the law is in the right direction and that it provides for better cooperation between both taxpayers and the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u250	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposed value added tax law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a value added tax law, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." I am opening the application procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Please. Member Milan Cvikl will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u251	Today's debate on value added tax law has shown that this law, together with, in the National Assembly submitted to the 2007 and 2008 budgets, is the law which, of course, is financed together with the increased taxation of the economy as a tax gift supported by you at the 1st item of today's agenda, this is the Income Act. Undoubtedly, it follows from the data we received in the National Assembly that instead of the usual annual VAT revenue increase, which is usually between €150 million and € 160 million per year, in 2008, this increase will be €379,380 million or, if you want, the difference between the normal growth is exactly €200 million or €50 billion. And that's what finances a tax gift under the Income Act. And it is wrong that the majority of Slovenes and Slovenians, who receive in the Income Act, as we have already said, or raise the total relief of 800 tolars or a few thousand tolars at the average wage, may be slightly over 10,000 tolars at a slightly higher rate than the average wage, that the same group will pay as much as 12% higher VAT increases due to an increase in the tax rate in 2008. That, of course, we have heard a lot of speculation today and how this has not yet been confirmed and I do not know what else - this is purely mere conjecture. Finance ministers usually follow what the law says, especially the law on public finances, when it comes to budgeting, if they already put in the budget, that there will be more revenue for these 50 billion, and they also confirm it by appropriate legislation. This minister did not do so, but, of course, in the law on corporate income tax, in the law on the implementation of the budget, as he said he would change it in that direction, there is a mandate. The power of the government to propose any changes and we will probably be somewhere after the local elections, probably somewhere during the Presidency following an emergency procedure, to amend the law on the implementation of the 2008 budget and, of course, to raise the VAT rate. And this VAT rate will have to be raised because it has become the least necessary burden. And that's the wrong policy, that's the tax fraud that we talked so much about at this meeting of the National Assembly. We will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u252	Thank you. Ambassador Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the SDS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I must firmly say that this time the proposed law does not change by one tolar or 1% of VAT. We witnessed a change in this tax, this rate, from 8 to 8 and from 19 to 20 in 2001. Today we do not change by 1%, nor by half percent. This time, it is only about changing the value added tax law to make it more operational and more tax-friendly. I strongly deny all rumors that this law raises VAT. I've never seen this article in this marriage. However, it is true that the 124th article to which some refer, but this article has existed since 1999, since this value added tax law has been in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u254	Thank you. You must have thought of Article 145. However, Member Cyril Testen has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will confirm the bill's proposal that it is suitable for further consideration, especially because the content of the law itself is much more favourable to taxpayers. In addition, we, I will say, have to give very serious attention to the guesses that some are instigating. They encourage speculation that VAT will increase in 2008 – a lower and higher rate. We're sure that's not the case. There were similar guesses for 2007. We can safely say this today that the draft budget itself shows that this is not the case. I think that even in 2008, the situation will be such that the government will decide what the tax rate will then be, and that today it is much too early to say how much this tax rate will rise, whether or not it will rise. We are confident that the government will implement the budgets so that they will be good for our citizens, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u256	Thank you. I'm asking for a personal application. Please. We have four members registered. The first one gets the word, Member I ask the honourable Members and Members that, unless they are serious about the applications, they do not even initiate the procedure. [[...]] Comrade Trophynik, now I've detected you five times, and you've given up five times. Member Boyan Starman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. Of course, I will support the proposal for a VAT law. I think he's fine, and there's absolutely no issue with him. But I stopped by for so many times about the tax gift to the richest. We will not give anything to anyone; we will take little less away from some because we have taken too much so far to allow them to become more competitive in the market and in some ways to ensure our economy's better competitive capacity and faster development. This is a fact that we all know and there is no point in repeating where we take it and why we take it. Policy is aimed at decommissioning personal income, decommissioning wages, this is the only way to increase the competitiveness of our economy and this is the right direction. In some ways, all laws are being simplified and directed in this direction, so I will also support this, as well as the proposal to amend the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u258	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this proposal of the value added tax law for the following reasons. Firstly, by simplifying certain procedures, the taxpayer is given greater transparency. Secondly, because it is very important, I think there are 2 tax rates, 20% and 8.5%. And because this bill does not increase VAT, so it does not increase, and the VAT remains the way it is, although some wish to show it differently through the 145th Article of this bill. And thirdly, because it improves the liquidity of the Slovenian economy and thus gives the greater competitiveness, which I think is one important novelty of this law, and because, thank God, the government has seen that the single tax rate is not suitable for Slovenia, at this point in time would cause great damage to the various activities, especially those of the most socially weak segments of the population, and that we remain essentially the basis of this VAT unchanged. This means a basic report and I will therefore be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u260	Thank you. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u261	This is not a VAT law, this is a VAT raising law, we have already said several times today, allow me to prove it with numbers to everyone who is allowed, especially to the Minister of Finance. When, of course, the Minister of Finance for 2006 and 2007, tried to win the ZIPR amendment on his mother's working body in order to raise VAT, members of the ruling coalition did not allow it. And you were right because the increase in VAT revenues in 2005 to 2006 and 2006 to 2007 totalled 40 billion. In 2006 total 640 billion, in 2007 680 billion. For 2008, however, the VAT that Mr Minister attributed to himself during his income is not 720 billion, which would be a normal number, but 760 billion or 80 billion in 2008. It is not a financier who can give without changing the VAT rate 80 billion additional VAT. This is, of course, this 12% increase in VAT inflows, which finances everything that the government is playing today and yesterday in this national council. It plays with Slovenian public financial stability, increases tax inequality, of course, the drink will unfortunately be paid by all Slovenians and Slovenes through higher VAT. These are cruel numbers, but you brought such numbers to the National Assembly because otherwise you did not know how to finance a tax gift. It has not occurred to you to reduce public spending, you have increased the burden of taxpayers' taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u262	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a real estate tax law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a real estate tax law is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of voice. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. We've got one registered. Ambassador Pavel Gantar will present the position of the LDS Club. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u263	Thank you. Since I am alone, I can present the position of all the parliamentary groups, there is no problem. So, as far as the LDS Club is concerned, I can say that we will not object to the proposal that the law is suitable for a second hearing. At the same time, this does not mean that we will support the marriage in another reading or that we will not oppose it in another reading. This will depend on whether the applicant, this is the government, taking into account our proposals and amending those provisions of the law governing the payment of the property tax in financial leasing, at the end of the financial leasing, but not at the beginning. This is our so-called basic condition that the law could also be supported in the further adoption process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u264	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against and one against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law on inheritance taxes and gifts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on inheritance tax and gifts, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm calling off the vote. Comrade Anderlich, I'm in charge of the session! I'm not gonna ask everyone on their own to sign up for the word. If you have this interest, raise your hand. Before every vote, I look around the hall, and if I don't see you, that's not my problem. We will now repeat the vote. Before that, Comrade Gulic, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u265	You didn't ask if anyone would explain their voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u266	It's not my duty. That's not what the Rules of Procedure tell me. It's your duty if you want to do this to make that happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u267	Now it's this machine and when the lights flash, it presses.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u268	My friend Gulic, you obviously don't understand the voting system right now. My duty as chairman is not to ask you to explain. The President must be listened to. When I read the conclusion, then you have time to point that out. We have had this practice and will continue it. My colleague Gulic, I have broken the vote this time, if I may. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u269	I propose that you allow us to explain our vote as a parliamentary group and, of course, as individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u270	That's what I'm gonna do. And I'm asking you to make that happen next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u271	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u272	I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. A fellow Paul Rupar gave up. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows and fellows! In this package of laws that we've been dealing with in these two days, there was something I've already said about cowardly eggs. And not only in the first Income Act, where additional funding has been made available to religious communities through the tax waiver, we have a similar situation in this law, in the inheritance tax law and in the gifts, where the whole package of different organisations allows for the possibility of religious communities being exempt from inheritance taxes and gifts. This, of course, also puts citizens in an unequal position, especially those who are not in the first succession, and especially those who are in the reverse order. I think in this way, especially if you look at the text of the explanation, where, of course, this whole thing isn't even written down, it's written in half. Compared to other European countries - Austria, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands - it is spelled falsely or semi-truely. And then all of a sudden, in Article 9, this exemption, which the Secretary of State explained, is not an exemption for taxpayers, but an exemption for the activity, which is completely incomprehensible and unclear. In this way, I think that instilling bad solutions in the absence of good proposals is not "fair" either to the national assembly or to Members, but at least to citizens who are being bullied in this way. Therefore, we will not support this bill in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u274	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 24. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal of the Water Vessel Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a tax law on water vessels, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a minimum wage law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, Article 2, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please. We have two Members of Parliament who will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. Are they different opinions or was it a mistake? I estimate it'll be Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u275	23 Members and Members have tabled an amendment which obliges the Ministry to obtain the opinion of the Economic and Social Council in determining the minimum wage, so that they will commit themselves more sharply than was adopted in the second reading, if only to consult the partners. Today an explanation was sought in Parliament about the basic concepts of what this consensus is, what this opinion is and what this advice is. The ruling coalition is not close to these concepts, and those who wanted to protect a non-working minister, otherwise would have brought this law to the table earlier, are thinking that a previous opinion that does not block a decision, or a council but establishes dialogue, but does not lead to socialism, as has been said today. If this is not incorporated into the law, then we will have another law that will introduce dictatorship, as has been the case lately. It is right for the Minister to gain the opinion of the Economic Social Council, not only because of its importance and its role, which he already had in the mid-1990s, when it was established on the basis of a specific agreement on wage policy. And in order to prevent the Minister's will, it makes sense to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u276	Thank you. I'm opening the application procedure on my own behalf. Please. We've got some reports. The first one has a word for Member Rudy Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. We are only talking about this in the National Assembly because the social partners have failed to agree. From 1 August 2006, the minimum wage should be 125,050. And since the social partners could not agree on each other, the only thing left is to establish by law the increase in this salary. I think that the union's forecasts that they will veto this law are not just good and talk about some relationship and hard negotiations. People who each tolar means a lot to them, keep waiting. I don't think that's good. It would be time for us today to finally accept this proposal and end this story here in Parliament, and pay the people what they are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u278	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u279	Mr. Veršnik, I am also in favour of your support for this amendment, because we are not yet in law. This amendment will allow, or allow, if you accept it, that employers and employees should be allowed to set a minimum wage criterion in the social dialogue of the Economic and Social Council, differently from what the government thinks. In fact, the law states with its 1st and 2nd Articles that today you will cement the minimum wage in Slovenia in 2006 - 500 euros, then 510, 521, 532, 544. And eight years later, when Slovenia is supposed to be on the average of the European Union, this salary will be 581 euros or 100 euros lower than today in Greece, lower than in Spain, in all countries that are strong below the average of the European Union. And we are not proposing anything other than that the adopted amendment should be decided by employers and employees among themselves, not by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not even by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but by one State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, when it consists of budget numbers. This law states that the budgetary increase in the estimated cost of living is the basis for raising the minimum wage. But this law simply does not take into account that in 2008 the increase in living costs after Memorandum 2.1 will be 6 times higher. This law does not allow higher price increases in 2008 to increase the minimum wage. I therefore propose that you accept the amendment and, on this basis, allow employers and workers to resolve it on the basis of economic results and not some ministers' ideas as to what inflation will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u280	Thank you. Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Labour works and works very well. As many laws as we have adopted from this ministry, it speaks of working hard to work in agreement with the social partners. The vast majority of the laws we have dealt with in this National Assembly have been in line with the social partners. As regards this law or this amendment proposed by the LDS, if such an amendment were to be adopted, such an amendment could, in a particular case, constitute a blockade when raising the minimum wage. The law states that the Minister is negotiating with the social partners the amount of the minimum wage. That's what it says, and that's what we've accepted in second reading, when we've discussed this law, and that's what it says, and I don't know why we forget that it's already written in this law. I do not know how many times it has been said that the government intends to negotiate and negotiate, which is also enforced by the International Labour Conventions, which were ratified in 1972. In our parliamentary group, we oppose this amendment, we cannot support it, because it means blocking the work in setting minimum wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u282	Thank you. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the issue of partnership in this country, the type of democracy. But who is particularly disturbed by the need for the Minister to gain an opinion, and because he knows that people in Slovenia understand the difference between opinion and consensus, he is deliberately deceiving, in this National Assembly he speaks of someone simply not listening to what the socio-economic world thinks, just what it says in this supplement. I don't know who's afraid of what's hurting the Minister if he can in the end decide otherwise to get an opinion from a competent, representative body, such as the Economic and Social Council. I don't understand those who can't vote for such a supplement. I don't understand what kind of democracy they think is appropriate for this country. I don't know why it's necessary to move around here. If it were a consensus, then it would be one story, then someone could say that it could block anything; whereas an opinion is something that would be good enough for ministers to ever be able to hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u284	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 33 votes in favour and 36 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're done voting on the amendment. We're moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law is not yet harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm opening the procedure. Please. We have six members registered. The first one has the word of a colleague, Rudy Veršnik. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Rugle. [[He's quitting.]] There's a MEP with a word. Milan Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u285	I hope you don't find that bad at the customer center. Anyone can be wrong, especially in this so-called fast-finger method, which has proven once again how foolish the way to collect votes is. If the President of the National Assembly is mistaken, then I believe that it is very difficult for the other Members and Members. Allow me to clarify my position on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Club. We regret that you did not support the proposed amendment, which would improve the dictatorship of the law on minimum wage at third reading. This is a shame, but on behalf of the Group of Members, I say that we will support the law. We will support the law because, according to its content, it is a correction of what the late Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has not done. However, we will propose and prove to this national assembly that the law should be amended as soon as we find that in 2006 price increases will not only be 2.1 percentage points but will be 2.4; 2.5; 2.7. We will see and then we will propose that the growth of minimum wages is adjusted accordingly. At that time, you will be able to join us in allowing those you intend to pay 6 times the VAT price increase in 2008 to increase the minimum wage. If you oppose this, as you have opposed our amendment before, you will, of course, prove the characteristic of the republican policy, which is that the minimum wage has been in America for several years and has been frozen elsewhere, and of course this has had all the negative effects. We will fully support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, even if the proposed amendment has not been voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u286	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? I see a desire to explain your voice in your own name, which is also right, you just have to express it, and you did. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go, please. You're giving up. Member Pavel Rupar has the floor. Comrade Paul Rupar, if you want the National Assembly to stop working and wait for you to make a phone call. Comrade Franz Pukšič, you have applied as well. You're quitting, too. And Ambassador Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that. I applied for a simple reason to explain my vote because it is necessary to reiterate once again that Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, has resolved the problem in the process of adopting this law, as this law has been incorporated into an urgent session. It is important to ask why this law was included in an emergency committee meeting. Despite the fact that the Minister knew before the parliamentary holidays that an agreement would not be possible to resolve this issue, it was necessary to bring the law into force and the government had already tabled the law in July. She was not in a hurry to settle this issue differently than she suggested and, of course, it is to the Committee and Parliament that it is possible to resolve this issue in a two-month delay during this period. This seems very important to me when we talk today about how someone cut a Gordy knot. The next thing I want to say is the fact that when we proposed an amendment to the amendment, we summarized the amendment, not an amendment that would grow into the mind of the LDS, but a summary. It is summarised on the basis of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which was unanimously adopted. The proposal was also unanimously adopted by informing us that they wanted social dialogue, with the exception of the representatives of the Ministry, no one opposed it. The content of the law is poor at these points. However, it is necessary to adopt a law just to correct the error of this government in order to correct the error of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has failed to resolve this issue in social dialogue and therefore does not want it. He does not want this opinion and does not want this dialogue. But in spite of all this, at least this marriage is necessary in my eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-04-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u288	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour of the bill, no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this agenda item and the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a good day till next time.
