ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	The esteemed minister of his team, welcome to a full-blown parliament. Today is Wednesday, 25 October 2006, the time is 9 and 14 seconds, so we begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Zvonko Černač until 5 p.m., Miran Jerič, my trifle from 12 p.m., Breda Pecan, mag. Spending until 3 p.m., Jakob Presječnik, Alojz Sok and Flowers Zalokar Orazem. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR A RISK Tax, EPA 1068-IV. We have two hours and 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I invite the Minister for Additional Reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new value added tax law, the main purpose of which is in particular to simplify the obligations of taxable persons in the field of value added tax taxation, to increase transparency and mutual compliance with the provisions of the law, and to further adapt to the binding rules established in the European Union's legal order, lays down in that area the system and obligation to pay value added tax in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill will replace the current value added tax law. Compared to the draft law that the National Assembly considered at first reading, the provision of Article 41 of the draft law, which now clearly includes the application of a lower value added tax rate during a transitional period than all dwellings intended for permanent residence, including construction, renovation and repair of these buildings or parts thereof, should be highlighted in particular. The provision of Article 66, which newly recognises taxable persons carrying out the transport of persons who have died by means of personal special vehicles, shall also apply, so that these vehicles may be subject to a new deduction of the value added tax. In view of the expected increase in the threshold for exemption from value added tax and other VAT obligations for small taxpayers set out in the proposal for a law amounting to EUR 25 000, approx. The new 148th paragraph of the proposal includes the possibility that those taxable persons who have not exceeded that threshold in the last year are said to be EUR 25 000 and are identified for VAT purposes that they no longer want to be from 1 January, the tax office shall notify that request. In accordance with what the Government has said, it proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law be supported and that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the State Assembly carry out a third examination of the draft law already at that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I therefore ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 21st urgent meeting on 12.10., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a value added tax law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on certain articles of the proposed law. Most of these comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the four groups that were later adopted. We have also received an opinion from the Committee of State of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy, a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, comments from the Chamber of Commerce and Economy, a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a letter from the Olympic Committee to the 40th Article and amendments from the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the Group of Parliaments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Group of the Slovenian National Party, the Member of Saš Pečet and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of Parliament, the Group of the New Slovenia, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. As usual, representatives of the proponents or government, the legal and legislative services and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The proposal of this new law seeks to achieve greater transparency and consistency between the provisions of the value added tax law and, in particular, simplification of the text in terms of the complexity of tax obligations. It also reduces the threshold for those who do not need to drive taxation from 20,800 to EUR 25,000. The debate was also about Article 42, where it was the wish to include in the exemption VAT the necessary children's products. The further discussion was also on 145th Article, where the drafter of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia wished to have the power of the Government to propose a change in the level of rates of up to 15% in order to delete this article, despite the fact that this article had already been before, and the representatives of the government and the rest of us were of the opinion that this article could remain. The Committee later adopted amendments to the future member of the coalition's parliamentary groups and took them into account in the proposal for a complementary draft value added tax law, which we propose to be endorsed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since it was not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups at the 21st ordinary meeting or the extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a discussion on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24.10.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I'm opening an interviewer's application. The word has magic. Squeakle, then the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Allow me to introduce the amendment we tabled to Article 44. Of course, it is necessary to make it clear that this is one of the few articles that have been opened, so there will be a full debate, I hope, on this amendment. With the amendment, we are summarising the proposal of the management associations to make managed investment funds an investment fund management service. In this way, we believe that this financial transaction would also be defined more appropriately than the proposed association of management companies. However, since I am speaking, allow me to ask first the leadership of the National Assembly and then only the government, about two possibly more important topics. Today, I expected that the gallery would be truly full, as you said, the chairman, because a petition with more than 16 thousand signatures in support of zero value added tax for books, newspapers and magazines was handed over to us by the President of the National Assembly. And I would like to know whether the leadership of the National Assembly has informed the applicants, the press association and the media that we are having this debate today. Secondly, this is a matter for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. During this week, there have been many spells in this national council that there will be no rise in value added tax. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose to the Minister, if this is the case, to either introduce a new VAT law after the adoption of this law, a law amending VAT with one provision, namely the provision that the second paragraph of Article 145 be deleted. Article 145, second paragraph; the law on the implementation of the budget may increase or decrease the VAT rate under this law by up to 15%. The Republic of Slovenia is one of the European countries with VAT rates somewhere on the upper borders. However, I will not state the rates, they were eventually submitted to the material, but the power vested in the government in Article 145 in the second paragraph allows the government to raise this rate by 15% at any time after the emergency procedure, which can also mean up to 3% of the point. The dilemma we have as members of the opposition is that we want nothing more than to ensure that the words of the Prime Minister are kept. The Prime Minister said: "For hundreds of years I have stressed that we will not raise the VAT rate in 2007 and 2008." I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why you then need the second paragraph of Article 145. Why do you need the possibility, in the second paragraph of Article 145, that whenever you wish to do so, for example, at the time of the 2007 budget rebalancing, at the time of the 2008 budget or at the time of the 2008 budget rebalancing, you will be able to raise the VAT rate by an additional 15% or approximately 3 percentage points whenever the government so wishes? Why this is important - this is important because in this case the Republic of Slovenia would become one of the countries of the European Union with the highest rate, only Denmark and Sweden would have a higher level, they currently have 25, and with some 23 percentage points would be immediately below Sweden. I therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's response to support the amendment of the VAT law, which will delete paragraph 2 of Article 145. If the government accepts this, if the government supports it, if the government even proposes a solution on its own, then we will believe what the Prime Minister has said Monday. But if the government isn't ready to do that, then we'll call it duplicity. Since it will not be possible to raise VAT, but to maintain the legal possibility that VAT can be raised three more times by the end of the government's mandate, it is simply duality. I'm asking the government representatives for an answer. However, I also ask the leadership of the National Assembly to explain whether representatives have been invited to file a petition for a zero VAT rate. Thank you so much for the book.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure the leadership of the National Assembly will answer you individually. Now I give my word to the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to respond to the amendment to Article 44. The amendment to Article 44 provides that the text in point "f" should be supplemented by the word "services". This is intended to expand investment fund management services. In fact, it is intended to extend to additional services, to services which may also be ancillary services or as some other services directly linked to investment funds. In doing so, I would like to point out that the exemptions referred to in Article 44 of the Value Added Tax Act are in accordance with the 6th Directive. The Sixth Directive of the European Union lays down for each Member State whose services exemptions may be used, and therefore, from this point of view, the amendment is unacceptable and, of course, the Government does not support it. At the same time, while the proposed doctrine of article 44 of the amendment of the law would constitute an increase, the extension of this exemption would, of course, also constitute a greater "cascading" effect. Cascading effect, why? As these services, which are exempt, are in fact not entitled to entry tax for these services and because they do not have the right to entry tax, the "cascading" effect or tax on the value added tax system increases. Furthermore, this proposal, we can say, is not in line with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which is the judgment in the "ebay national" case. So from this point of view, the government rejects that amendment. About the zero rate for books. Of course, a zero rate means that those who are the last in the entire chain, usually sellers, would not charge the additional value tax on the book, but would also have the right to the whole entry tax, which would of course mean a shift from the sixth directive. After all, such a provision under the European system is not possible because the Sixth Directive for the Member States that entered on 1 May 2004 did not allow for such exemptions, some Member States have such exemptions as the United Kingdom and Ireland, but those countries have regulated such taxation of literature, books, etc. already in the past periods, not during the period of the 1990s, when negotiations actually took place, therefore this is possible for them. While for Slovenia this would in fact mean a derogation from European practice or also from the rules of such taxation. Notwithstanding the fact that such a solution would constitute a very large complication in the calculation of value added tax itself. It simply means that, in such a way, to enable the book to be actually taxed in the same way as exports, the value added tax system is such that only for the export of products or goods determines the rate of 0%, which means the exemption with the right to deduct the entry tax, therefore, of course, the government cannot support this amendment or this proposal. At the same time, I'd like to ask the Minister if he can answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much. But I'm going to answer the 100th question for a hundred years. This was not a hundred times, but more than once is certain. This is a VAT issue. The VAT Act was adopted in 1999 and includes this same decision, now we just keep it, keep what the government has proposed and this national assembly adopted in 1999, and that is that the possibility is given not by an urgent procedure as provided for and by a flat-rate term in this national assembly, but by amending the law on the implementation of the budget can be the rate of VAT in this law, so the VAT law increases and decreases by up to 15%. I have already said, and I have yet to find again that I hope that this will now remain, that it will be understood that the government does not intend to do anything behind the back of this national assembly. Because even if she wanted to, she can't do it. I understand the members of the opposition who, in their enthusiasm, have certain things to do, seem to be repeating. The fact is, they attribute some purpose to the government to do so in vain or to do so on their own free will. Not in any way. If the situation as regards macroeconomic indicators changes, fiscal policy will, of course, have to respond. In the Law on Excise, this National Assembly has given the government an opportunity years ago to change things by regulation, by regulation, and here it is by law. And the law is only passed in the National Assembly, not at government meetings. So, we didn't make it up, that's what the previous government did, that's what the previous state councils accepted, and if they wanted to know why they did it, they could ask themselves why they did it. However, we have already said this several times, and I will now say it definitively, once again, I hope that the last time, as we saw in the 2006 budget in 2007, that this part may need to be applied in 2007, we have included this decision and thus presented the budget. So what happened now? It has happened that definitive analyses, such as the situation, allow us not to do so. And in 2007, I repeat again today, we will not change VAT. And although it is included in the 2008 budget, we are confident that this will not happen, and we plan not to. Why? Since we cannot at present prove that these laws that have already been adopted concerning the rationalisation of expenditure and others that are in preparation and will be discussed by this national assembly at the next meeting, we do not know what effects they will have, you will see what you will decide in this national assembly. We are convinced that there is a lot of room in our budget on the side of spending to achieve greater rationalisation, to spend the resources that people trust us to manage them. That's it. And I hope that's why you won't have to make any more calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I'm opening a second round of debate. Please sign up. We have six discussers and a secretary of state. I give my word to Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I, Mr President, will also allow myself to speak outside the article we are talking about in the light of the Minister's debate, if I am allowed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	I didn't say you started it, I just asked permission to speak briefly outside this article about the connection to your debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	But I'd still ask that I lead the session if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Mr. Secretary, the problem I'm feeling is the next. That statements by government representatives regarding the possibility or inability of any increase in value added tax were different and irregular at different times. I've seen them like that. You probably don't expect me to look for documentation, a newspaper or anything to prove it, that's the only way I could understand it. And in this part, I never said that you promised or threatened to change the rate of value added tax. Your personal statements at that time were sometimes different, when you said 'no account' when you said 'if need' when you said 'we'll see', which is also possible, they just didn't give a clear answer. I understand you, if you would say "no, in no way" you don't know what the end of the second year would be and someone could take you by your word and say you were knowingly deceiving the public. At the same time, you did not want, with all the promises made by this government, that the impact of current tax legislation would not be essential to the position of citizens, to the possibility of increasing inflation, to additional problems in the economy, to say "no, there will certainly be an increase in value added tax." And to me, this is just one of those issues on which the government has not been set up so far and on which we allow the possibility of different things happening. This is not good because it sheds its light on all other proposals of tax laws that we adopt. And that's all we have to say in this regard, and our comments have always been focused on the possibility of such consequences that would be harmful to the economy and also to the taxpayers - those to whom
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to follow your instructions. However, when Cwickl spoke, he did not speak of the only word that reads Article 44, nor did he mention it with a letter, but he spoke of everything else. Yesterday we listened to a lot of words and there was a lot of euphoria about how the new tax legislation takes away the poor and gives it to the rich. However, the only provision amending this proposed amendment is that investment fund services should be exempt from VAT. Yeah, who runs these investment funds? Is it the one who, according to his colleague, will lose on the basis of the Income Act 5,000 or 7,000? Hardly, I don't think so. And it is also likely that the owners of the shares in these funds are not those covered by the first rate of income. The second thing I'd like to comment on or define. Yeah, I hope we don't adopt this law just for 2007 and 2008. What about once, if the need to apply the existing provision, both the VAT law and the budget enforcement law were to be demonstrated, and only VAT should be raised for the implementation of the budget in a specific year in order to do so? Are we then going to amend the provisions of the law again in 2007 due to the need to do so in 2008 or 2009? Already in force legislation, in particular in the law on budget implementation, this option remains and has been used once before to apply this provision to raise VAT and thus likely enable the implementation or adoption of a closed draft budget; I think it was the 1999 budget. And that's it. We are not in an emergency to adopt legislation for just one year. And if we keep something that is already in existence and leave it to the National Assembly that after either adopting the budget balance or the draft budget, and if there is any possibility of raising lower or higher tax rates in this proposal, then we will decide and then say, "No, we are not going to do that and we will not confirm it." I will not support this amendment to Article 44.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl, you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed in this round yet, so please wait until you get your turn. And my explanation. Exceptionally, I allowed you to talk about Article 145 at the outset, because I thought you would still associate it with Article 44. I'm not gonna let that happen again. We are now continuing the debate. Mr. Scholch has the floor. No, I won't. Mr. Skull has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I thank you for the possibility that, within this debate, we have actually been able to talk about any other problems related to this VAT. Of course, I regret that Mr Tsukati, who had accepted the initiators of this zero-level requirement a few days ago, did not invite these people because they could hear a lot of useful things about the potentially bad ways of such an initiative, but this is something that the President of the National Assembly must take on. I called because Minister Bajuk said there were questions he had answered 100 times. And I would say that the questions that have been asked several times have not yet been answered. One such issue is how much VAT is collected from the account for the books sold. Since Mr Šircel opened this debate and because we are now in this discussion on VAT, I would very much like to know, Mr Minister, how many VAT has been collected in 2004 and how many 2005 books have been sold? If this number were clearly presented and the methodology followed by this number, because some assessments over the coat of arms, of course, could not be counted, it would be significantly easier to conduct a discussion on how it makes sense to regulate the book taxation regime or to stimulate individual projects linked to the book. That's how we talk to each other deaf. I would like to remind Minister Bajuk that the government has already adopted a document citing that it has this information, and I would like to know today, Mr Bayuk, the exact number for 2004 and the exact number for 2005 in the title of the sales books and the methodology for how this has happened. The issue that will continue is of course not exactly related to this, but it will allow for a possible break-up that will go in the third direction related to this address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask that the debate is not too wide, but it is obvious that my warning is bob against the wall, either that it is representatives of the government or that it is Members. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Your Honors are here! In the first part, the Secretary of State in the Republic of Slovenia said that the European Union's fiscal policy also dictates the pace of events and tax increases within our country. Allow me to introduce you again from this town, which I have already informed you on your home labour body, that we have a monetary union within the European Union, but we do not have a fiscal union, or in other words - within the European Union there is a single monetary policy, but it is not a single fiscal policy, i.e. tax policy. And as far as this city is concerned, that is, the proposal for a zero rate for literature or a book, however you wish, from this city I do not think it is right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia follows so obediently the recommendations on differences between the members of the European Union that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognises this, because you said that it is a fact that Slovenia cannot agree to this, despite the fact that others, stronger, more credible, especially the more credible villages of the members of the European Union have - and you have just found that. In fact, the United Kingdom has this advantage as a member of the European Union. But you said yourself: Slovenia cannot have this. And really, when I sometimes listen to you, or to the whole government, I think it is more important for Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union, to continue to accept this negative fact for our country, even though there was no need for it. Once again, in the framework of the European Union and within the institutions of the European Union, there is no record of this, and also Slovenia has not signed it anywhere, since it is not easy in Europe to approach the tax union. It is only about trying to continue with the existing policy, that is to say to be liked and to accept higher taxes than the Member State of the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia, which fills the European budget of course; and the story is rounded. However, allow me to point out that, according to my assessment, the most important element of the value added tax law. If we leave the whole system behind and only touch what is actually the essence of value added tax. Under both Article 44 and Article 145, the level of the burden on natural and legal persons on the one hand and on the other hand the amount of that amount on the budget to the Republic of Slovenia in the form of so-called tax revenue. And from this town or, where he sits, Minister Bajuk said, "that one just so," I quote, "they are speaking in a consistent manner about the 145th Article, about the second paragraph, which speaks or allows the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to manoeuvre about the VAT increase". But Mr Minister, Mr Bajuk, let me inform you that in 1999 your President, Mr Janez Janša, spoke in a flat-rate manner. I have here today an amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members, which does not refer to Article 145 in its content, because it was not the content of Article 145 at the time, but was the same in Article 65. He spoke about this manoeuvre of the government, where yours are, I'll say, bosses or coalition partners, i.e. SDS, proposed the same amendment and then advocated it and there was no talk of flatness or of any ignorance of the matter. Therefore, the current Prime Minister has proposed the deletion of Article 65, paragraph 2, and Article 65, paragraph 3, at the time of the adoption of the value added tax law. Today, when the National Party came with an amendment, you say it's flat-rate. Does it seem serious on your part to mark such a matter flat? Mr Bajuk, here, according to my assessment, you owe an apology to all those Members and Members who advocate that our citizens be less taxed than your 2008 budget. You have rightly found that for 2007 you have avoided an increase in value added tax at the expense of the budget deficit. But Mr. Minister, from this place I ask you - and it's very frank because I'm really interested. I wonder if you believe yourself that in 2008 you will not increase the tax, given that the basic public financial act, the law on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia clearly indicates the figures, in item 7 000 40, the name of this item is the value added tax, the increase in the amount. As a matter of interest, the increase in the ratio of 3 to 4 is 11.9%, which together means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make full use of the right under Article 145 of the Value Added Tax Act; and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Mr. Pache, this article is closed. We're talking about Article 44, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! And, of course, it has taken full advantage of the right under the value added tax law, which is currently and under this amendment. You have defined this same content, not only with numbers, but also with a word, in your explanation. And allow me from this city, Mr Bajuk, given that yesterday or, I am sorry, the answer by Mr Janez Janša was raised on Monday to my question, which seemed to me that he was tired of talking about the taxes which he had been calling out to say that he had already answered this same question a hundred times, and I am very interested from this point of view why, if you hope to speak so firmly or are confident that in 2008, there will be no increase in the value added tax, why you have included this amount in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. And when it comes to content, if this is just a room of manoeuvre, then I owe it to you to say that you are running a very unserious financial policy within our country, because budget revenues, including income from value added tax, are fuelled by budgetary expenditure. And if, in this year, you have announced a certain level or amount of value added tax in the framework of the draft budget, you have, of course, further allocated this amount to the users of the budget. This means that the expenditure side of the budget is also non-creditable. Because the fact is, if you've defined something on the planned page that you don't think will come, you've written it down. Why did you write it down? In my opinion, because this is unfortunately the case in politics, the written word is more valid or the spoken word is more spoken than the written word, and you will say the written word "it has been written", but you will always talk about it, but you will cheat those who are about this 11.9% increase in the amount of VAT, but the expenditure side will also increase. And one more thing - and in such a case, of course, I will complete the story of value added tax. Mr Minister, whether we are prepared - this question has already been raised by my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac - to cancel, and I will take your word for it, to all the public financial functions in our country, if there is an increase in VAT, especially since you have been saying that this will not happen and will not happen in 2008, I am not speaking for 2007. Mr. Bajuk, are you prepared to give up all political functions if that happens? While this will be a very small comfort for citizens and citizens, who, of course, will pay a lot more money, of course this is funny to you, but at least in such a case, I believe that if you give a concrete answer, I will believe in your will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The first consideration of the bill has already been carried out and we are discussing Article 44. Of course, I can't, or I don't want to. Before I give the word "magic." Practice, I'd like to make a public apology for not giving you the replica. In fact, electronic reporting in multiple circles also allows different interpretations of when a replica, when not, and we still have to keep a written record ourselves, that we know who has already discussed it and when it can then be justified to use a replica if it has been misinterpreted. We know about the second time, but now you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Chairman. I accept the apology, I understand that, in the light of the technique which has burdened the President, it is also difficult to monitor what is a key content, namely the debate we are having in the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to tell Mr Bajc briefly that I have presented our amendment very precisely. In fact, our amendment speaks only of this - and here I also answer to the government to define more precisely the management of investment funds. The management of investment funds is already one of the other exempt activities, as proposed by the government, so it is not a matter of trying to favour me, Mr Bajc. We say that this should be defined as an investment fund management service, because sometimes some investment fund owners also let other institutions manage it. And in order for this to be decided, of course, an amendment is proposed. In the second part, you are telling me that, however, I ask the Minister what is true now, whether what the Prime Minister said is true, I quote: "Let me only repeat for a hundred more minutes that this government does not plan, plans to raise VAT and has not proposed any such act." However, the Minister has just said that it is true that there is, of course, more value added tax than planned for 2008 at a higher rate. So, we have an act in the National Assembly - and all Members will agree that the budget is an act of the State Assembly, the Prime Minister said that the government has not proposed any such act involving more VAT, and the Minister said that such an act is and this act is a state budget. The State budget, as presented in the figures several times, provides for a 21% and 9% rate, i.e. already raised VAT rate. And that's why, of course, I think it's necessary at this point to clear up who's right here. Whether the Prime Minister is lying, who says that the government is not planning or proposing any such act, or whether the Minister who says such an act is in the National Assembly, is assuming, but you know what, "we may not use it" and then, of course, the Minister would say, we will use methods of saving. That's news. The methods of saving mean, Members, Members of Parliament, when we adopt the budget in the coming days, that for the 50 billion budget rights that we will give to budgetary users, the government simply will not take advantage of saving the government for 50 billion spending. That's what the minister said. He said that it would be necessary to save, he said, if you adopt a law here, for example, on the restriction of indexation of social transfers, and let's say this is a very harsh law, it is true, it can be saved, we can go even further into the health treasury, we can also say, the government says that we will not invest in health care, so the basic issue of value added tax is who is right, the Prime Minister who said no act is planned, or the Minister of Finance who said that there is already a budget in the National Assembly which takes into account the higher value added tax rate. Of course, it is true that there is no formal basis for this act. And if I do, there's only one question. Whether the Government is prepared in the value added tax law to waive the possibility of an increase in this rate during the term of office by abolishing Article 145(2). We will propose such a law, and I believe, Members of the ruling coalition, that you adopt a law that will abolish this possibility, and thus, of course, give it right to the Prime Minister. And not to the Minister of Finance, because he knows who must be stronger in the government, the Prime Minister. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance will have some problems because of this, but it is in every government and obviously in this government that there is a great dichotomy between what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance says, and I think that needs to be clarified today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Let me tell the angry Members that it is not in my habit to take words, and I will not do so in the future, because I warn and count on the draw of those who speak. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I am talking about Article 44, which falls under Chapter 8 of the VAT exemption, and I am asking the government two questions. I have also raised one question in the context of the question of the question of the Member State, both to the Ministry of Culture and to the Minister of Finance, because of the different interpretations of those receiving subsidies, especially within the Ministry of Culture, and the taxpayers for the payment of VAT, because there are two interpretations of who it is, whether it is entitled to separate VAT or not from the subsidy. This issue, because this law does not dispel those doubts that appear to exist in individuals, I repeat because there are different interpretations. Some, from tax services to ministries, answer that yes, others, yes, although subsidies are supposed to be taxed, we know. It now follows from practice that some may be forgiven if they receive a certificate of working in the public interest, while others do not, because they do not receive this certificate, and perhaps also as an act of punishment in certain cases must then settle this. The second question comes from an explanation, which has already been given at the previous meeting, Mr Secretary of State, but I am asking the Minister because it is a political question: "Is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after so long, for the first time, not to implement a book fund supported here by the former opposition with very open hands, or bad practice in the taxation of books, ready to launch a proposal in the European institutions that an increasingly unreliable directive imposing taxes on books is apparently being amended?" Since we are members of the European Community, we know that there are many initiatives at European level, that VAT rules and exceptions change. Recently, we have encountered a series of such initiatives coming from EU countries that were very different: from the fact that hairdressers and hairdressers would not pay VAT in certain countries in tourism, etc., to the fact that certain countries have very far abused in order to exempt VAT from investing in monuments or monuments. What has Slovenia responded to these initiatives from many countries? She said, no, we join those countries that do not support these initiatives because it is obviously not in Slovenia's interest to have exemptions for investing in and rebuilding sites. Even though our castles are precisely due to the fact that they are too expensive to rebuild, so to speak in bulk, the state of Slovenia has said 'no, we are not interested', in short, it has not defended those countries which would also support our interest. Now I ask Minister Bajuk, perhaps somewhere in the corridors, are you ready, is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ready to support the initiative, which is demonstrated by thousands of signatures of legal or natural persons, to correct the VAT separation of a book at European level? I am asking this because it is not just a few countries that have this exemption and which have avoided this directive, which you today, Mr Shircelj, have quoted again, if we cannot apply an exception here, because we came forward when they were already closed. England, Norway, Ireland, Poland and some other countries, while Koreans do well, the Thais do not pay VAT, but European countries do not pay. This is the case with countries that have so-called globalisation language in their exploitation. Noam Chomsky said it needed to be changed. There is strong support at European level. At that time, however, Slovenia, as has been said, complied with the rules of the Directive, has abolished itself for such or other reasons. But that's why she set up a book fund, which we've heard is not working and can't be implemented, because we don't even have any calculations on how we could examine this VAT, what it's derived from it, so that it could then go back to the book. I repeat the following questions: Are the undertakings for subsidies committed or are the subsidies bound by payment? Whether the State of Slovenia could initiate, at European level, in accordance with the Conventions, including the last Unesco Convention, that countries with a language threatened by their smallness, because of the fear of the disappearance of this one, are also willing to initiate, in the European dialogue, amendments to this Directive or to apply exceptions at a broader level than the strong countries, including England, Norway, Ireland and Poland, apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Now the Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to answer a few questions or, I will say, some of the statements that have been made here. First, with regard to the enforcement of European legislation in Slovenia, I would say the following. When we joined the EU, we also adopted EU law, the so-called primary law, which is reflected in the regulations. For example, we have a regulation on the Customs Code and it is established in Slovenia, a regulation directly. In addition, there are directives that are indirectly established in Slovenia's legal space, which means, in other words, that these Directives have mandatory provisions to be adopted by the State and also have those provisions that the State may adopt. From this point of view, we must follow the rules in the field of indirect taxation within the European Union, and here, we certainly include value added tax, excise duty, and, as I have already mentioned, here we also have a customs code. This is European law, and we really need to take account of it when we join the European Union. With regard to the data on the books that have been asked as a question of a question of a Member; this answer is already in the signature and we will also send this question to Mr Jožef Školč in accordance with the rules the Government has to answer. At this point, however, I can say that in the final consumption of the added value tax on books for 2004 there are about 1 billion and 83 million in 2005 - 1 billion 122 million if we are talking exclusively about books. If we are talking about books, including periodicals and other printed material, as well as reproduction, and we include here not only those in final consumption, but also the country, the different institutions buying this, then this amount in 2004, we estimate, at 3 billion 432 million and in 2005 - 3 billion 520 million, so from this point of view these estimates are. Why the ratings? Because these data are derived from statistics. In fact, in the framework of the value added tax law, we do not separate in the calculation a specific tax account specifically for books and tax accounts for other goods or other services, so that from this point of view these are estimates, which are likely to indicate something. With regard to the various interpretations, of course, we cannot have a definitive answer here, because there are probably also those who receive these subsidies, who receive different subsidies and who are probably in different situations. In principle, subsidies are not taxed, but we are talking about so-called real subsidies or those subsidies, in substance, which do not have a counterclaim, which means that no services have been provided for this money. On which services are discussed within the European Union to tax at a reduced rate, we are talking, according to our data, about a reduced rate, not about exemptions. Even when we were talking about hairdressing services, etc., we were talking about a reduced rate rather than an exemption. Here, Slovenia, I think, has approached mainly those activities that will allow investment in older buildings and cultural monuments to continue to be taxed at a lower rate. Here I am talking about that already today the taxation of construction services related to housing and housing are taxed at a lower rate - and here Slovenia has retained the possibility of doing so by 31.12.2007. It extended this application further, but also, of course, made the application for a lower level. Here we are talking only about a lower rate, and Slovenia will also consider what are the options for a lower rate or an exemption or zero rate within the European Union within the framework of the whole process, which means that we can examine what these options are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull wanted to have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I thank you for this information or for the two data related to 2004 and 2005. But I have to say that I'm running extremely far away, that you can't tell how much real tax is on sold books, and that there's such a difference between 1 billion 83 billion and 3 billion 400. As far as I can understand, it would be possible to give a much more uniform answer to the amount of VAT collected from the books collected and, Mr Shircelj, I am asking you this question in this discussion, and the answer I normally expect and we will see, we will be able to talk about it. It is not possible to provide two such different data because VAT is always accounted for in the transport of VAT.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Since the replica is not possible, of course, I am reopening the debate because there is still time, so please sign in. Probably a secretary of state with a hand, thank you. Thank you very much. First of all, Mrs. Shirtz has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Firstly, of course, I myself have been thinking of a lower level, referring to a reduced level in the previous debate, when I spoke about Slovenia's failure to support initiatives for a reduced level of investment in, say, the restoration of protected sites in the European Union. At the same time, we have just heard the Secretary of State and I assume that this is the position of the Minister to take seriously the possibility of considering an initiative to go to the European Union and, of course, to lobby together with those countries that are in a situation similar to Slovenia and to try to implement the exemption rate in accordance with all the principles that Europe advocates on globalisation and the impact of those effects that a small nation has within globalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Pache's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Your Honor! I will refer to the Secretary of State's reply, basically I must say, I am glad that you recognise that there is no fiscal union within Europe. However, I am not happy that you accept this difference between EU members, where someone can exercise rights or ratings on the basis of taxes, but someone else can't. And those who cannot, in this case the Republic of Slovenia, accepts this. In my opinion, in no way should I accept this and build on this kind of negative policy for our country. I'd like to point out two short things. Firstly, for all those Members and Members who did not accompany the working body meeting, the amendment referred to by Comrade Swickl or the amendment to the second paragraph of Article 45 was already on the working body. There, all of you, without exception, your representatives who represent in this working body, namely SDS, NSI, DeSUS and SLS, opposed this option, i.e. the destruction of the VAT increase, just like Mr Šircelj. So, unfortunately, the National Assembly, in the form it already has, has been defined. Finally, let me once again leave this city, even though it has just left us, for the second time I call on Minister Bajuk to answer the question after he has withdrawn from the area of public finances. And secondly, I am giving the same supplement that, of course, this would be a very bad substitute for raising value added tax, but only through this answer would we know something about the credibility of public finances and those who manage these public finances within our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I will not support the amendment. I would like to say that, although there is no common fiscal union in this EU, there are certainly certain rules in force. And given that some countries have chosen an exception before joining the EU, as has been said, no new member since 2004. However, I am also sure that in the future it may happen that Slovenia will also choose a certain exception, on this particular subject that we are discussing today. However, I am firmly convinced that this matter is not so simple. In the final stage, at least that is how I explain it, it is all connected to some final price or it can also come to certain dumped prices because VAT is always calculated at the final stage of the sales price or at the final price or service. From this point of view, I see that it is not as simple as some of you explain that for certain things, when we have discussed books, one of the EU members can obtain a member, and one of the EU members can either have an exception to the VAT bill. Even with the money that goes to the state cash register, but someone has to pay for it. So it's all been calculated in price. I would also like to point out that, after these two years of operation of the new government, I am most pleased that no black hunches or black predictions have come true, but my colleague, Commissioner Squill, have not come true. However, if many or most of the government's positive forecasts were to come true, you could give 10, 20 examples of what has been heard in the past both by the committees and by a fellow Member in the National Assembly. I would ask him if, at least today, he believes that the exchange rate will be a tolar: the euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr. Mikolitch, this is past the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	239,640, that's all I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Now he's got a mag. He rehearsed the right to a replica. Please. Let's at least smell a replica under Article 44, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Of course, first of all, let me ask the government about Article 44 what I have already asked, but there was no answer. So far, Article 44 states that it is an investment fund operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	But you have a replica of Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	I'll be right there. Just because you wanted me to talk about Article 44, I will also talk about him not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Thus, the government has not replied whether the diction of the provision of investment funds rather than the provision of investment funds is clearer than we suggest. As far as Mr. Mikolitch is concerned. The key black forecast that has been realised is that the effective taxation of the economy has doubled during the time of the Prime Minister Janez Janša's mandate. The economy will pay $228 billion in tax this year and 124 in 2004. That's 100% more. This, Mr Mikolić, is a key black forecast that has been realized. This would have to be used to reduce the tax on paid wages, but you did not do it, but, of course, in your own words - you are playing with expenses. Therefore, it will be very interesting to hear how Minister Bajuk will realise the black forecast he himself announced a few minutes ago that he does not need 50 billion value added tax because he will reduce spending by 50 billion in 2008. That's what the minister said. The government will be saving. I expect a savings programme from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to enter into force on 1 January 2008. I doubt they'll cancel the Presidency meetings, but I think we're going to see a lot of protocol events. Of course, this will mean that it will obviously be necessary to save somewhere else on things that hurt. I think the government's main savings will be to give less money to the municipalities. However, if the Minister does not realize this, as he has foretold here, it will be quite a mere duplicity, as we have seen it this week, very much. The Prime Minister speaks one way, the Minister of Finance says the other way around, is the plan. So that Mr Mikolić, without panic, the economy is twice as taxed as it was at the time of the previous government's mandate. This is bad for the economy. Therefore, the macroeconomic analysis office is the only part of the government as independent as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Ending, ending; forecasting 20% lower economic growth in 2008 by state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'd like to give you a few more answers. With regard to data on books. The ratio between how much tax is levied on data actually based on statistics, as I said, in final consumption and tax, which is actually collected not only from books, but also from periodicals, from other printed materials, reproduction, etc. In short, the carriers here have a ratio of 1 to 3. And here in the second group are also government authorities that buy and also other public services that buy books or periodicals. So, for once, there's data like that. In any case, the data may be further studied as far as possible. With regard to the amendment to Article 44, and in what fact is the difference between the word of services being added to this provision. The difference is that these services can also be provided by external collaborators and or by external institutions, external taxpayers and not only those providing investment funds from this perspective. This means, of course, that certain services related to the operation of investment funds would be untaxed or exempt, although they would be provided here by persons who do not actually carry out the investment fund. This amendment is therefore not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 44? Then I'll reopen the application. Please sign up. Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! With regard to the amendment to Article 44 proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Liberal Democracy, I would like to say that there have been so many arguments by the government and also by the coalition Members that it is clear that the coalition, even personally, will not support this article. As regards the higher tax revenues raised by the honourable fellow Member, they are not the result of higher tax burdens, but of a better part of the economy. This is the point, and this is not true at all, and this is lying to the Slovenian public, who are now following us, that the Slovenian government, this government, that has increased the tax burden of the Slovenian economy and that about 60 billion more tax revenues have been generated on this account. This is misleading the Slovenian public, as is misleading the Slovenian public if we only partially or partially delete the second paragraph of Article 145. Allow me to read it in full: "With the law on the implementation of the budget, the VAT rate under this law can be increased or reduced by up to 15%." The reduction was not discussed by the honourable fellow Member, Mr Cwickl. It is necessary to speak of the dictatorship of this paragraph, as it is written. And please don't manipulate the Slovenian public who told you so many times, no thanks. And I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. My friend Squeakle has a replica. But I really ask again, let us concentrate on Article 44 and the amendment, because this debate has in fact turned into a general discussion again, and we have already had a general discussion, as you know. Please, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	I said it was an increase, because we're going to suggest the possibility of an increase being removed from the law. However, the fact that the government can reduce VAT will be left to it. But, Mr Bajuk, Mr Janša did not talk about reducing VAT. And secondly, Mr. Horvath, of course, I have to replicate. I apologize, but the increase in economic taxation in 2006 is due to the abolition of investment aids for equipment, resulting, of course, in some additional expansion of the tax base, which led to an increase in effective taxation. That's what the numbers show. This is partly due to better results. However, not so that the profits would be higher by 100% and therefore would of course be a 100% tax more. No, no, no. Of course, you cannot confirm this and prove it with any information. That is why I think, of course, Mr Horvat here is deceiving. The economy will pay 100% more tax than it did in 2004. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. And believe it or not, you have the word mags again. Squeak, this time as a debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	My question to the Minister is only one. Just one. Is it true what he says, or is what the Prime Minister says he is planning or not planning, or is there a budget plan here in the National Assembly with 21.9%? Mr. Bajuk says that President Janša says no.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Amendment, that's right. I always do. My word to Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to talk about the amendment first. We probably don't understand exactly what value added tax means. This does not mean that this product will automatically be cheap if we abolish value added tax on a group of products. The value added tax - it is said - is added to everyone in the line and in the chain. What has been charged before is deducted from each of the following. So if we're talking about a paper or a book, it has to be, then it's logically forgiven the whole process, which we don't even know where the whole paper is, and all this stuff, because otherwise, if it doesn't have an entry tax or an exit tax, then this thing is in the elements when a new value is added, something knows. Otherwise, it's only always added, it's a value added tax. It is always added to the work that one article in the chain represents. So it is necessary to understand this and it is logical that we cannot, despite the fact that, if it were made sense, it would be useful for many people not to have this tax. Only this would not mean or be feasible because the value added tax procedure is a chain-based system transferred from each to the next in the chain. One manufacturer purchases goods, pays VAT, sells these products forward and, of course, the difference from wages, then he only buys his share of VAT. First, the part of VAT that he paid for the material and, of course, pays for the final part, it is said that VAT is always charged only at the stage where it happens. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I don't know, there's so much of this debate, whether it's going to increase or not. I think it's actually completely pointless to speculate on what and what would have happened. I think even or my personal opinion is that a more fair way of taxing or collecting state public VAT revenues is possible than income personal taxation. It might be wise to suspend or grant income relief for these small personal benefits up to a higher grade and increase VAT. VAT is paid by everyone who has money to buy something and pay this VAT. It's lower in food, these things. There's a case here. For food, the whole chain is lower, even at the entrance to processing. Then it's logical that she could be like that. I don't see any tragedy or anything. I think that we will have to have VAT at a level comparable to our own countries and also the structure of the public-financial revenues that we want to compare ourselves with. I don't know why there's so much discussion here. I would not say how this thing has increased, but I am proud to say now that I am very surprised as an economist and I am glad that these amounts are increasing significantly at the same rates. I say that the revenue from the profits of legal persons in 2000 was only 51 billion. And then this means that the actual economy has ruled in such a way that it did not generate exactly any profits, or that these profits have been flowing in the previous period into certain other channels and then no contributions or taxes have been collected. That's a positive sign. I would therefore like to commend that, at the same rate, the contributions or revenues are higher. Exceptions are those reservations or accounting standards, which is again the question of why they were such. I don't think it was normal for everyone to have everything in certain reserves and not pay any taxes. Above all, I am also talking here about banks and all things that could have avoided tax in a way at a certain rate. This dilemma I would quickly, not point out, but I am very proud that such results are being achieved, despite the fact that no one expected such a major transition, as we planned 164 billion revenues in the 2006 plan. Now we are planning 228, and then very radically back again, and practically without the 2007 and 2008 sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	And Mr. Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Unfortunately, I feel like we're in some Parliament from the past when we were going south. Indeed, in this House we are discussing how to avoid certain rules that are in force in the community to which we have joined. We want to find some covers to get some exceptions. Yes, we had exceptions, we had an opportunity to achieve them when we were talking about joining the EU, and in many areas we didn't even succeed, we didn't even demand them, and we would have been justified. I'm sure we could get them, too. I have a feeling around this debate that someone with publishers is manipulating and deceiving them and is therefore exasperating them to collect and seek signatures on this rather than to turn to the right instance where they would get a relevant response. And here's the government, not some union. Gradual withdrawal of equipment allowances. Please, who accepted this withdrawal? And that is the result of a better business in the Slovenian industry. This is also the result of this, this abolition, but let's see, for those companies where some directors were actually replaced, for which they were also crying, and today we find that these same companies have a better business outcome. What were they doing? They hid business results, made non-profit investments, paid for certain associations and in short, and in any way achieved lower business results by manipulating them. Clearly why, to pay less taxes. Today I think it is in these companies, and I will just mention Mercator, Work and Krka, another leadership that behaves differently if I can say anything more honestly and have a better business result and the result of a better business result is also more tax on profits. I mean, the percentage hasn't changed, but it is true that this relief, which was accepted in one of the previous options, makes this difference. The result is here. And I see no reason why we should be ashamed of it and be glad to do the right thing, to make more profits and from this clearly more tax. As regards this constant repetition of the VAT increase. I have witnessed here many times how we will increase VAT for 2007, how we will increase by 2008. None of these predictions have come true, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Apparently, time is the only one who chooses to debate, and he's always right. But since I see a few more raised arms, I'm reopening my application. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	It was necessary to call on this sacred forgiveness. What does this government have to do with Krka and with better results do I care? Krka has been a respected, good and better company for decades, except that the president of the current government or then the biggest opposition party wanted to discredit the former director who was there for 22 years, who, according to you, was hiding the results and did not deserve this government to be replaced by a director, but a planned staff policy, unlike other companies, where you forcibly replaced directors for no reason and so on. This, of course, is mixing and really misleading. In these rooms was an attempt to discredit former leadership, which is planned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Mr. Anderlich, I must warn you too, paragraph 44.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Here was a talk about this and it is necessary to explain for the sake of the truth, because of the Slovenian public, that gentlemen from the ruling party will not simply deceive here. I don't know what the purpose is, but this authority has more merit in Krka, that the President of the Supervisory Board has insidiously purchased shares, made use of this account, a member of this party, but not that the results have improved because they no longer hide results like they did in the past when there was another leadership. This was, of course, necessary in the interest of the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Versnik has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Yeah, I'd like to explain for myself, I didn't say anyone had replaced anything. A new leadership has arrived. That's another thing, and I'm still saying that. But to change the leadership or not to know what. It's a second lead. That's inevitable. [[?]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I suggest that this debate continues outside this Chamber. It's getting too hot. But Mr. Testen has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Look, I will say one sentence about the amendment, namely that I will not support this amendment, but I will continue the rest as I have done so far in those topics that have just been discussed, in the form of a general debate. When we talk about the VAT law, I think that this is just a legal basis for a possible VAT change and you are talking today that VAT will change or will not change. I don't think it's right. In our Group of Members, we have already said many times that we are in favour of those positions, that all other options must be used, and that even for 2008, which is much to be discussed today, we are in favour of such a position that we first take advantage of all the options that will be necessary in the field of excise duties, as well as other tax revenues. And only then will it possibly be considered if it is necessary to change the value added tax. As far as effective taxation is concerned, of which Mr Squeakl spoke much. This effective taxation is an exclusive consequence of the legislation adopted in 2004. This government has only reduced taxes in all the amendments to tax laws so far. She was just lowering taxes. You will find that out all those who have the opportunity to see and see this legislation. And even on the occasion of this tax reform, taxes are falling. That is why we believe that this will certainly be known in the 2007 budget rebalancing and will be known in the 2008 budget. So by talking about tax hikes and tax rates, I think it's extremely incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mag. I don't know if you'll make it in four seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	It's a replica. Effective taxation is due to a law you haven't changed. Mercator is managed by a member of the previous administration or a smaller team. Work, economic results are dropping. But don't play with Krko, Mr. Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr. Pajk for letting him go earlier, and he has a word if that's what the time allows. There's still something small left, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I notice they have one double criterion. When it comes to making money out of the budget, they advocate that this is absolutely necessary when it is necessary to put it in the budget but not in the budget. Oh, no. And I believe the minister has a good team, that he knew how to figure out how to get that money.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	She just did her thing. I think the Secretary of State has also signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would just like to emphasise the following, which is already in all the sources of reform and also in tax reform. In 2006, when this tax reform is being prepared for 2007, a reduction in tax burdens is planned. This is also evident from the estimates relating to the growth of public consumption as a percentage of gross social product. It is planned that this will fall by almost 2 percentage points over the next two years, which, of course, is the result of saving on one side, and on the other, lower burdens on both businesses and individuals - in companies, I mean the tax on paid salaries, reduced rates of corporate income tax and ultimately lower rates of income. At the same time, this tax reform programme is also linked to saving, which has already been discussed, as is also reflected in these indicators and in the increased competitiveness of the economy and higher economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application because I see a few more desirable hands. You can sign up, the one who still has time, of course. So the first one has the word, Mr. Pache. And I predict it with the hope that the debate will take place around article 44 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the debate will take place around the value added tax law. I know that you know, and I hope that most Members, that the debate on the tax rise cannot be harmful, and that the debate on the possible tax rise cannot be harmful. The fact is that taxes are an urgent evil that needs to be minimised. So much so that we leave available resources available to natural or legal persons. Therefore, I cannot understand at any time the debate of those who, of course, strongly appeal to the President, that at this moment it is only necessary to talk about books. Ladies and gentlemen, you probably know, despite the differences between the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister on what has been written down, that you have all reviewed the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia before us. On Monday's reply, the Prime Minister stated to the Member State's question, namely, on the question of the 2008 value added tax rise, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not written any act confirming this. We all have access to the tape. All of us can see exactly what anyone in this room has said. And the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not prepared any such act. Regulation on the budget, which is currently in the procedure of the National Assembly. You all have your desks. I believe, however, that, according to my assessment, 70 centimetres of material is at the level of the draft budget for 2007 and 2008 and it clearly shows that the Finance Minister foresees, on the basis of value added tax, that he will obtain more funding in 2008. I believe that my debate with many people is probably repugnant. I believe that the debate of my colleague, Brick, in many ways, even in this house, is therefore unpleasant in the National Assembly. That's what you're up for, to limit the debate. However, we are talking about the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase both the lower value added tax rate and, of course, the higher rate. But, please, from duty to those who are too financially or taxed, let us, however, take this debate in this direction, so that we all know what awaits us in 2008, if the desire of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister is realized, that is, after the value-added tax has been lifted. So, the desire to increase the tax burdens of Slovenk and Slovenes. I never have a habit or I think that I have never read a letter in my entire parliamentary activity before. I'm getting them as likely as all of you. But a very interesting letter that may open up to me another horizon, a horizon to come to your view of thought or your dimension, czech, what then, if taxes increase. From this title, although the letter is not intended for a positive opinion, allow me to quote a short part of the tax legislation on value added taxes. It's been addressed to me and my colleague. "Despite your thundering against government tax reform, I fully support this." Of course, this is the right of every citizen, it says. But it goes on to be very interesting: "Well, what if I have to pay a few more taxes, because I'm aware that the government has to get the money." Here. In the Republic of Slovenia there are probably quite a few people based on past local elections, there are many who agree to pay, - once again I will use the same term "multi-tax figurines". But I would like to point out that it is not just those who are happy to pay higher taxes. According to my assessment, a large number of Slovenes and Slovenians do not want to do this, especially if they know how this money, which is collected by the government of Mr Janez Janša and by the finance minister Dr. Bayuk, is spent through taxes, and how this money is spent on the expenditure side. And allow us when we're on the income and expenditure side. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, - and today, I think for the fourth time - planned to increase the revenue side in the tax revenue addresses, more specifically in title 704 Domestic taxes on goods and services with indexation 109. More specifically, value added tax with indexation 111.9. And if we have written this down, or if the Minister of Finance has prepared this proposal for more on the revenue side, this surplus is, of course, an increased tax in 2008 also defined as expenditure from the budget, i.e. the expenditure side for 2008. So, I want to tell you that, despite Mr Bayuk's words, that this only allows for an option, this option is not only misleading to taxpayers, but also to those budget users on the expenditure side who have received more money due to this increase. And so even those who do not do so will, of course, be deprived. Allow me to conclude, Mr Bajuk, for the third time, I call on you to answer the very specific question raised earlier. And not only am I calling, please respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. And Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	First of all, Mr President, I do not think it is right to hold a meeting. You allow discussion of everything that is not written in the amendment. Here, too, Mr Pečet, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, given that one of the most stringent leaders has seen the rules of procedure being easily abused. You're abusing the rules of procedure yourself. You just did that in the previous debate. Your debate went absolutely beyond the context of the amendment that is being discussed today. So, so procedural. With regard to the content of the amendment alone, the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Mr. Kokalj, you have just abused the rules of procedure. I keep reminding you that the debate is on Article 44, on the amendment. If none of the Members on your part or on the other hand or on the government holds this, then we have only two options: whether I interrupt the session or take the words away from the people or continue as I continue. And I've decided on a more democratic option. Last but not least, and deep for the liberals, so in doubt let there be a more free debate in Parliament, because we are in Parliament. So much for a call. Now please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	It's interesting that you just took a word from me that warned me of the problem. To the content of the amendment. I don't even know if this amendment has been presented to the public. On what does the proposer propose. In spite of the Liberal Democracy, the value added tax would be exempt. Insurance and reinsurance transactions, rental or rental of real estate, financial transactions, lending or cash loans, issuance of credit guarantees, transactions including transfer. Transactions including transmission in respect of currency banknotes and coins, transactions including provision of services for the provision of investment funds, gambling, supply of gold to the bank, etc. Where are these arguments? On the one hand, we are constantly listening to the fact that more or more are left to the rich through this reform and the poor take, and on the other hand this amendment is written exactly as you say it is written. Thus, if the tax is reduced or forgiven, the prices of these services will be even higher. These are actually proposals for those institutions and institutions that manage large capital and have large profits. I think that this amendment is in exactly the opposite of what the Liberal Democracy has always made clear to the President or the Finance Minister in relation to this tax reform. I think it's very unfair and it's a very obvious deception to the public. Secondly, state the contents of the amendment and present it to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Pece has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you. Allow me, Mr President, at least on my part all congratulations on today's leadership. The fact is that we are talking about one of the most important issues for citizens and citizens. And if it is not necessary to discuss the value added tax law on the intention of the government, which it has given and drafted to the draft budget for 2008, forgive me, then it is better that we have correspondence meetings where everything proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be confirmed. And before that, my colleague Kokalj, in my opinion, made some claims suggesting that he neither knew the law nor the amendment nor the amendments tabled and dealt with on the home labour body. I personally appreciate that you've made it clear to me that I'm in violation of the rules of procedure. Why? For this reason, I would like to draw attention to the content envisaged by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the value added tax law. We can also come from your position, the so-called government position, and I will quote here that the VAT law is just a legal basis and that all the rest of the debate is incorrect. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not say a few days ago that this legal basis would be realized in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given the most important public financial act of its own and it shows that you are planning or planning to increase the value added tax revenues. Well, since I hope I don't need to hear from you again, I'll say that. It's also been said on my account that the minister has a good team and he'll be able to find some money. On your part, it was said. That's what you said. But, look, that's exactly what he's holding, but the danger is that he's keeping it at the expense of finding this extra money through his new taxes. Bad economists do this, bad politicians do it, because the easiest thing is to raise or introduce a new tax. And if that's a good team for you, it's a bad team for me personally. In my opinion, no one, not in this National Assembly or within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should consider raising taxes as a priority for their work. While accepting and in conjunction with Article 44, that Slovenia is in a poor position compared to the other members of the European Union, for example, Britain has the right to zero and Slovenia cannot. There's something wrong here. This is the wrong world. We have a negative situation where we could have it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees. He says yes, he does. Where our citizens and citizens are burdened, you ban the debate, you deceive, the words of the Minister of Finance, now differ from the words of the Prime Minister. All of us have before us a draft budget, from which it is clear what is in the plan. I personally - and leave this right to me - I object. I have never supported a single tax raise in all my political career because I know the structure of the budget. Because tax revenues under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are over 90% tense and are well below 10% of the so-called tax revenue. Gentlemen, I've been blabbing about this thing for years. And I'm not going to change my mind because you want it not to be said out loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, let me say the following. It is very difficult for individual articles and amendments to be torn out of the whole and treated in some kind of vacuum. That is why I allow for a broader debate. It's like we're talking about roots and we wouldn't allow a debate, for example, about a rabbit that's being eaten by roots. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Don't you? You're giving up. Then I'll reopen the debate, seven. Check-in is on. Mr. Kokalj, then Minister or Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I have to make amends in light of my previous debate, sometimes a man is too quick. Actually, the amendment he's talking about. [[...]] [[warning sign for end - incomprehensible]] are the services provided by the investment funds, but this amendment has been introduced in the spirit I spoke about earlier. As Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, however, I must say that the Committee has already discussed these exemptions on value added tax at least twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Time's up. I also ask the Minister or Secretary of State if you wish to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When preparing the budget, it is always based on the legislation in force, I repeat, the legislation in force and the forecasts of how things will turn in the economy and in society as a whole. It is therefore always based on some forecast and existing legislation. This budget and everything that has been debated again today on VAT. I expect that it will be repeated once the debate on the budget is over, and in some ways it denies that fact. It always is. The 2006 budget also provided and found its legal basis for the conclusion of the proposal, as regards the 2007 proposal in the current VAT law proposed by the previous government and adopted by this National Assembly in its previous composition. This is the possibility that in the law on the implementation of the budget, the government can propose to the National Assembly up to 15% of the VAT rate difference. If I were to propose something different, then I should change the VAT law itself. That's the difference. The fact is, even though we were predicting why we were just assuming that. Because we proposed and also started implementing. This national assembly agreed. Step-by-step elimination of taxes on paid salaries. The gradual abolition of the tax on paid salaries is a very difficult task for the Slovenian budget. Why? Because a very large amount of funds have accumulated through this and we have taken some kind of approach procedure. 20% already went this year. This is a major economic burden. You don't want to talk about it anymore. And in 2007 there will be an additional 20%. All of this is hidden, it will be covered on the basis of what we have already committed ourselves to and even fulfilled. And this is some consistent respect for the parameters of the Stability and Growth Pact, but we need to ensure that we not only enter the euro area, but we can also stay there. The fact is that we have not raised or proposed an increase in VAT in 2007, although it was just as prepared this year, just as we are proposing for 2008. Why can't we do this differently? In fact, things are changing profoundly in Slovenia, whether certain representatives or honourable Members do not want to accept or acknowledge this. The fact is that legislation is changing. It changes and proposals are on the table and will be discussed in this National Assembly. And it is not some fantasy of the Minister of Finance, but it is in the normative programme of the government and also in the work and envisaged part of this National Assembly. So the rules of the game are changing. The fact is that these changes will take place, but they are not yet recognised and legal, even though they are planned. And we cannot accept such criticism, if you do nothing on the expenditure side, when we are actually proposing certain changes and rationalisation on the expenditure side, and the National Assembly has also largely agreed. Once all this has been adopted when this is legalised, the 2008 budget will need to be reviewed. Yes, of course, it will have to be examined. How's he going to have to be examined? But the fact is, we expect a greater degree of rationalisation to bring so much savings. Together with stronger economic growth, we will be able to avoid such a change. Last year we also spoke in this National Assembly, of course, it's not just an object, it shouldn't be an object or believe it or not. The legal basis has been given, the legal basis exists, but we did not have to take advantage of this legal basis, as the effects of the changes already enacted by this National Assembly on the proposal of the Government have in fact made all this possible. We are confident that such changes as are included in this draft budget will not occur. Why? Because at the same time we are proposing amendments to the legislation. At the moment, however, we can only draw up a budget on the basis of the legislation in force. And this is the subject of this debate, which is otherwise presented in a different light. However, as regards the credibility of this government's work in the field of public finances, I would like only to point out once again certain facts, which are also now, as I have mentioned, the presentation of a memorandum for both budgets for 2007 and 2008. And there are facts that need to be accepted. The verified facts by the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which is based on the ESA 95 methodology, are said to be on the basis of the public financial situation of all Member States, it has been clear that this government has more than halved the average deficit in the previous five years and that we are on the right track and that this credibility is never. We never stood here or demanded and attributed this role to ourselves. From my mouth you have never heard of anything other than recognition of the whole of Slovenia, because it was able to organise and actually adopt certain rules during a crucial period and to abide by these rules. This is also for the social partners, including recognition of the previous government, which has wisely set up certain things. I have also stated this, not once, over and over again and, of course, the consistent implementation of all this by this government. This share must be acknowledged, however, if a person is credible and fair. It is true, however, that the deficit has actually halved during this period, as Europe measures it and as measured by the deficit everywhere, and not just budgets, all four cash registers and everything else that falls under the concept of a wider country. We've halved this in this period. These are historical facts. This cannot be done on a flat-rate basis and say that we are on the wrong track because it is obvious that anyone who is objectively prepared to watch this comes to a completely different conclusion than certain statements that we have heard in this Chamber today. As far as VAT is concerned, once again, there is no proposal for a change in this law. There will be no change in 2007. In 2008, however, I am convinced that on the basis of everything that the government is doing, because it has already done, what is currently being prepared and will be considered by this National Assembly, we will also be able to achieve this together, that VAT will not be increased in 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. We'll reopen the application. Please sign up. Mr. Pache, then Mr. Minister. Mr. Pache, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you had a very nice speech and an answer. In part of your answer, of course, you were talking about the country. Allow me to fill you in here in good faith. We're human beings. I once heard, "I'm home, here's my home." I agree with that. And our task, both mine and all Members of Parliament, is to make this house a pleasant place to stay. And a pleasant home can't be with a high, high rent. And if I go to the state level, the question is whether a pleasant country can be the one that so heavily taxes its citizens and citizens. Below you said that you are looking objectively only to you and that you are looking objectively only to those Members who support you. But for God's sake, Mr. Secretary, you're talking one thing, the other you wrote. I will not quote the coefficient from the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia for a quarter of the time, I promise. Because you know what you wrote. I can promise you all my help today, and I believe that even a large part of the Members would not have come to the realization of your plan after the VAT rise of both rates in 2008. I truly deeply believe that this is the worst thing you can do as a finance minister. It was said that you never heard it from your mouth. Since we do not want to give a concrete answer, then we have no choice but to wait in ignorance or in disbelief for 2008. However, my assessment is slightly different from yours that despite the negative measures that a government should ever take, but I could see that as few as possible, the government and people are so responsible for these negative measures, such as the tax hike, also prepares. And when you say that the option of better economic growth would be, you know, in this case, I am almost tired of such answers because I know what you are doing to increase economic growth. Today, economic growth in Slovenia is very favourable, but economic growth is not taking place hand in hand at the same moment with investments, but follows investments. In some industries this is in a year, in some, it is five years, in some 10 years. And until this year, the legislative branch of government, as well as of course the executive branch of government, has encouraged investment in fiscal policy. This year, on your proposal, investment promotion was destroyed or investment promotion was no longer promoted. On the basis of what, then, we can expect growth or economic growth. The main element or very important element of economic growth has been eliminated on your proposal this year. And when it is said that things change in Slovenia, of course they change. Some of the changes from us require the outside world, some of the changes from us require neighbours, and the fact is that we create most of these changes ourselves and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sends this creation memo or work to the National Assembly. And the fact is that the National Assembly regrets in terms of power, as it is, all of this is accepted. But as a member of the National Assembly, allow me to point out the irregularities that you will make in my opinion. You wrote down that you would do these irregularities in the budget law. You can't get out of this. Even if it was a kick or even if it was a mere misplanning of funds or a higher budget, you also had the opportunity to correct it. Last but not least, days ago, a mother's working body was held to deal with the amendments. I have also tabled an amendment directly from the value added tax area, in the area of the range that allows you to raise it, but none of the Members of the ruling majority, nor has the Secretary of State of this amendment supported it. But even though you're saying now that it's not necessary, you've still left this optional business within the framework of the most important public financial act. And when you talk about the formation of the value added tax law, yes, there were three mandates back, and I think it was, not 1999 as it was said today, but 1998. That's when the then government, that's three mandates back. There can't always be an answer for something bad, but we inherited it, which was a good answer for the first half of the year. Gentlemen, you are in the middle of your journey. You are out of line. You are in the second part of your journey. And we still hear the same answer. This either happened in the Middle Ages or it happened before the year 2000 or before the world war or three months ago. And let me just do it again and then I'll really stop. The government sent a value added tax law to Parliament this week. The current government, the then opposition, opposed this law with the same arguments that I am now opposed to, with the same act that I am opposed to today, and this act is called an amendment. Amendment to the proposal for a value added tax law. Just one difference, excuse me, two. Article 65 was then referred to, since the value added tax law was otherwise restructured, it is today referred to Article 145 to the same content. And the other important difference is, you forgot what you were defending, and I didn't. That's the only difference. You have today changed your position and, of course, you are building a public financial policy in this manoeuvre area, this is that you expect more tax funding. If it were for concessions, which you do not wish, to adopt a statutory law or for the division of public companies of companies, Mr Bayuk, believe me, we would have all my praise, all my support. But you can't have it then, but whether you're telling me that I'm unobjective or anything else, or like that citizen who even wrote his full name and address, you don't want to know what he wrote about me and my colleague Squeak because we were all human beings because we're fighting for low taxes. Mr Bajuk, please don't lift or increase the tax burden on our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that we are discussing some of the VAT amendments, but because such proposals have been heard and such words have been made, I have to speak again. In my presentation of the 2007 and 2008 Memorandum of Budget, I stressed, among other things, what you can also check in all the materials, that, in line with the reforms announced, the government is proposing a reduction in taxes for citizens and citizens and for businesses. And here's a key sentence, a percentage of GDP taxes, that's how it's measured, otherwise it's pointless to think. If you want to know what the burden is, you always have to compare what this share of GDP is. The percentage of taxes per percentage of GDP will be lower by 1.1% in 2007 and by 0.5% of GDP in 2008. So, at the same time, total expenditure is being reduced. Consolidated public financial expenditure, i.e. all four cash registers involving expenditure also financed by European funds, will on average fall by 0.8 GDP per year over the next two years, depending on the estimated level of 2006. This means that public spending will fall by 1.6% over the next two years. During the last four-year term, consolidated public financial expenditure without payment of EU budget funds could be comparable, reached an average of 43.6%, i.e. 44% of GDP per year, then fell to 43.6%, then again to 44%, then again to 43.6%, i.e. on average 43.8%. In the draft budgets you have ahead of you, they are planning to reduce the budgets of all these four cash registers to 41.9%, which is 1.9% lower than the average previous period. So the tax burden is lowering. Certain objectives that are important for our future development are foreseen and are also earmarked for this. It is difficult to find such a position or a presentation that could deny these facts. The fact is, this government has put public finances in the right direction during this period, and there is still a lot to be achieved, but again I invite you to review the report that the European Commission made public yesterday. [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] According to the ESA 95 methodology, we have actually more than halved the deficit in the previous five years, which went from 3.9 to 4.3. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Time's up, Mr. Secretary. Please, Mr. Squeakle. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Mr President, my procedural proposal is very simple, but I ask that you allow me to explain it. I come from what the Minister of Finance just said, and it's true. Compared to 2006, the tax burden is reduced from 39.9% to 38.8%; a decrease of 1.1%.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Mr. Squeakle, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Allow me, Mr President, but Mr Minister compares 2006 to 2008. It has to be compared with 2004. In 2004, however, the tax burden was 39 and it increased first, Minister, to 39.9 and now you say you will reduce it. And, Mr. President, I'm just asking that you allow the Minister to compare [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Please state to the end what a procedural proposal is. Don't abuse the rules of procedure, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	My procedural proposal is to explain to the Slovenian public a comparison with the last year of the previous government, not to compare it with the current situation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	That's not procedural. Read the article in the Rules of Procedure about the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	See, my procedural proposal, Mr President, is to enable the Slovenian public to learn comprehensive information [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	That's not it. Mr. Squeakle, I take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	That's why I think it's right for me to say that the minister said wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Mr. Squeakle, you have no further words. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	The burden has increased, it is now shrinking, but only in the second half of the mandate of the government of Janša, but in the first half of the mandate it has increased.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Mr. Squeakle, you have gravely violated the rules of procedure. I'll also say that I was just marked as a spider by the minister. Mr Minister, in this House, you will not insult any Member, no Member or Chairman. If that happens again, I'll have you removed from this hall. That's it. I'm closing the debate. We continue to discuss Article 148a and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.25 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a real estate tax (PAA 1069/IV). We have 10 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the Minister for Additional Reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new real estate tax law regulates in a comprehensive manner the taxation of real estate and certain real estate rights located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill will replace the current real estate tax law and further harmonise the property taxation system with the value added tax and the real estate turnover tax. Compared to the draft law that the National Assembly considered at first reading, the provision of Article 8 of the draft law, which now includes an explicit statement on the definition of the tax base for financial leases, should be highlighted in particular, allowing the costs of financial lease financing to be excluded from the tax base, of course, if the contract is also separate. With regard to the new arrangements for financial leases, it is clear once again that the new arrangement under which the tax is charged at the time of the conclusion of the contract on financial leases equates the way in which this turnover is taxed with the real estate tax with the taxation of the same transactions under the value added tax law. The proposal also means equal tax treatment of all forms of acquisition of economic and property rights on immovable property. Your Honor! In accordance with what has been said and bearing in mind that no amendment has been tabled to the proposal for an amended law, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported and that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the State, this State Assembly will carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, so I ask President Bojan Starman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its meeting on 12.10.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also held a second reading of the proposal for a real estate tax law, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ordinary legislative procedure on 15.9.2006. Representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the meeting. The law governs the taxation of immovable property which is not taxed with value added tax. The law also seeks to cover all those remunerated transactions which are subject to immovable property which have not been subject to property tax since then. We have adopted amendments to Articles 1, 5, 8 and 16 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The amendments are incorporated into the amended proposal for a real estate tax law, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the second defence bill for inheritance tax and gifts, EPA 1066-IV. We have an hour and 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for an inheritance tax law and gifts will compensate for the so-called same tax under the Citizens' Tax Act. The law needs to be updated in such a way that it adapts to the increasing emergence of new forms of property, bonds and real estate relations, which are of a nature of inheritance or donation and which are not specified or specified by the existing law. After the first consideration of the draft law, he did not experience any significant substantive news. Again, we would like to highlight the novelty of the bill regarding taxpayers for inheritance tax and gifts. The new tax will also be paid by certain individuals of private law who will receive gifts or inheritances. Therefore, taxpayers are not all legal persons of private law, but only those specifically defined in Article 3 are companies, foundations, funds, institutions, private institutions and economic interest associations. If an inheritance or gift is received by another legal person, such as a political party, an undertaking or similar, that person shall not be liable to inheritance taxes and gifts and taxes, nor shall he, of course, pay them. However, apart from this, it is necessary to deal with certain private legal persons who, by general definition, would be liable to pay inheritance tax and gifts, and, in view of their operation, it is appropriate for them to be exempt for general advantage. These persons are explicitly defined in Articles 9 and 11 of the bill. With regard to this Article, the Government considers that the proposed scope of the exemptions is appropriate and therefore does not support further enlargement of this scope. For the smooth functioning of this system, it is important that the scope of the exemptions in Article 9 is consistent with the scope of the exemptions in Article 11 of the draft law. Your Honor! In line with what I have said, I propose to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported by law. At the same time, I propose that the national assembly, if the conditions laid down in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met, carry out a third examination of the draft law already at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. This bill has also been addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and again I give the floor to Mr Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The 21st urgent meeting, held on 12.10.2006, as is apparent, was quite extensive. Among other things, we have considered the proposal for a law on inheritance tax and gifts. The legislative and legal service and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the meeting in addition to the candidates. The draft law was supplemented by written opinions and proposals: the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy of 10.10.2006, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia of 29.9.2006 and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia of 10.10.2006. The inheritance tax and the income of the congregations. The system in the law is designed to allow easy collection of inheritance tax and gifts, taking into account the economic power of the debtor. The Committee adopted, at its meeting, amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 19 and 23 and incorporated them into the amended draft law, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. As the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law in this case, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24.10.2006. Here too, I wish, and I ask that the debate take place within the framework of the open article and the amendments, that what has happened in the preceding paragraphs will not happen. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any hands up, so I don't even see Pardon. [[...]] Then I'd like you to formally apply. Thank you very much. Mr. Versnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Members of the coalition have tabled an amendment to Article 2, in which the value of the movement, which is less than EUR 5,000, is not subject to taxation. Of course, this is a group, not every single object. Anything less than EUR 5,000 is not taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	I would ask the government what the government's position on this amendment is and what the government expects as a result of the adoption of this amendment, given that it has been accepted by the ruling coalition. The question is, of course, whether 5,000 euros is the right limit or not. But still, I'm asking the government to explain its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	I will reopen the application to formalise the procedure, because at this stage no government representative has come forward, and now it has. So all he has to say is the Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In view of the basic proposal for a law, this is not a novelty, which means that already in the basic bill the amount of EUR 5,000 has been released, which means that there is no innovation here. However, it is a clearer definition and with a clearer definition, taxpayers gain greater legal certainty in the tax process, gain greater transparency and therefore the government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports, I conclude the debate and open Article 5 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any hands up. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm going to open the application, and please sign in. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The introduction of Article 9 and the debate on it to me is an excuse, perhaps even to the government, a typical case where the government is not prepared in the home labour body to clear up each thing in order to find out together what is right and what is, I would say, half the truth. We have always proposed to the government in three laws, i.e. the Income Act, the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Heritage and Gifts, equalising the entities having these rights, if they obtain that this is exempt from taxation; or that it very precisely explains where and why the differences are to be understood. Why, if, as an individual, as a natural person, I give something to someone, I have this right to reduce my tax, in another case, if I do it as a legal person, I do not have this right, and in the third case, if it is an inheritance and a gift, it is considered an exemption or not an exemption, as a non-payment of the tax on the recipient. We have not received these answers, and the result is this amendment. And we have in this amendment, as the first question, why say scientific, is it possible to compare them with the research that is written here? Maybe, maybe not. In different ways, this term is used and we want a clear answer, because otherwise we do not see why research institutions can be donated or donated or inherited without paying the tax, in the first order, for someone else not. We don't understand what happens to people with disabilities, whether they're medical or not. According to the classification, they are special and we do not understand why someone who is involved in a medical activity can be donated and inherited without paying the tax; not to someone who is a disabled organization. We don't understand why sports are explicitly excluded. We would really ask for the government's response, precisely where the reasons are, whether it means or not, because we do not see what was written in the Income Act or in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and for other purposes. And the government said that whatever anyone wants will be included in this part. The second part of the issue involved is the issue of donating to political parties or donating. Gifts or inheritances to political parties and unions, yes. This is the first time that Mr State Secretary, or for the first time that I have heard, I apologize, has ever said that this is related to, I think, the second paragraph of Article 3 and understanding what are or are not those civil rights persons who are taxable. If I've been too careful, I'd like another explanation. I think the political parties were mentioned, the unions weren't. If I heard you wrong, I apologize and let it happen again. The second question that comes to me in this regard is whether and why, after all, the religious community is involved in the second paragraph of Article 9 or in the pursuit of religious purposes, because I think that they too are clearly written in Article 3, paragraph 2, so that they are not covered by it. Because I don't know why private legal persons would be treated as private law, there are companies, foundations, funds, institutions, private institutions and economic interest associations under this law, and this formulation is regarded by the government as an argument or an argument that we don't need to write political organisations and trade unions in particular, since they are not here. What about religious communities? Let me repeat this because here, for the first time in the law on inheritances and gifts, a gift for religious purposes appears, and we all know that we are sensitive to this issue and we would like it to be at least properly arranged, but not that it is arranged in an inconsequential and unclear way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'd give Mr. Gulic a word and then you, Secretary of State. Please, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Dear President! I think this is better because the Secretary of State will answer to me. I think that some question will be repeated by Mr Potrč, but this is the 9th Article, that it has actually been designed in such a way that he has somehow swindled these religious activities into liberation, is, therefore, set for that element which will receive this tax gift. A tax gift means financing the state, which means that the State finances religious communities or their religious activities, not humanitarian ones. The humanitarian activities are written separately, and the charity activity certainly remains within this. But it is also evident from the introduction to marriage that religious activities have been so mischievous. Actually, there's nothing to talk about there. It is so cleverly written that this law essentially gives some first assessment of the situation, then the reasons for the adoption of the law, that it has been regulated so far by the law on inheritance and gifts, on citizens' taxes, and then, in fact, nothing will change. So it's written in the introduction, and the naive person will say, well, if nothing changes, then it's just like it was, just to move from one law on the tax procedure to the law on inheritance. But later, in Article 9, we see that this exemption or tax gift applies to those who are in the first order of succession and to religious, humanitarian, health and cultural purposes, it is said, not to organisations, but even to purposes - it is "activities". Of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly distinguishes this, does not separate everything that religious organisations are doing, but also leaves education and other things, but here this is well-precedented in Article 9, blurring with other matters and thus becoming very unclear. I've already talked about it, but there was actually no answer. Of course, I expect an answer today, how and why it went in. After all, the tax means a burden for someone who gets something. But this burden is probably questionable when it is inherited by someone who has nothing but a rich organization, such as those who engage in religious activities. Therefore, I find it completely pointless to continue to finance them. In this week, for the second time, we are actually considering another law, where something is given to them, it is said to be another tentacles, a state that only opens up to religious organisations and, of course, puts you in a very, very privileged position. I don't think that's right. It puts itself in a privileged position even only chosen among these, but well, the law doesn't talk about it, the reality speaks about it. Therefore, I still argue that the Liberal Democracy cannot support such a law precisely because of this article, not only because of the content, but also because, in fact, there is always something else that works differently when a good law is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! In this reply and in this explanation, I would like to point out that we are talking about activities in the second paragraph or in the second paragraph or in the second paragraph of Article 9. We are talking about activities that are religious, humanitarian, charitable, health, social security, educational, research and or cultural. Then he continues to carry out activities, protection and rescue here. From this point of view, we are talking about more than one activity, and here it was not the intention nor the desire to hide anything, everything is actually transparent. Religious activities are also included in Article 9 on the basis of an international comparison, and, last but not least, in similar laws in other countries, these activities, I am still talking about activities that are exempt. Of course, if we are talking about what this article actually includes and whose entities include or do not include the whole law, then it is necessary to say here that, on the basis of Article 3, as mentioned above, there are no entities involved in the whole law, such as political organisations, trade unions; finally, we are also talking about religious communities, these are entities that are not civil persons, which have not been taxed so far. This is said by the current solution, according to the citizens' tax law, this tax is paid exclusively by a natural person and no civil person pays for it. From this point of view, it is necessary to effectively separate persons who carry out certain activities. These persons can be organised on the basis of other laws, it can be a social law, it can be a foundation law, in short, any other law that actually determines how, in what organisational form, certain persons who carry out these activities are organised. So, of course, from this point of view, it can be a society or a foundation that performs religious activities or does charitable activities or performs social protection, cultural activities, these activities are equivalent here and are in line with Article 11 of the Law, because this is the relationship between these two articles. This is also why we cannot simply say that we do not have disability activities, we have disability organisations that can carry out humanitarian activities, social security activities, humanitarian activities, charity activities, etc. In short, today we do not have a disability activity, or at least I do not know a disability activity, which is, of course, why these organisations are organised as disabled organisations, and if they carry out certain activities, they are also exempt, so those listed here. Here, of course, this raises a question and here, for example, is a similar scientific research, scientific or research text, which of course includes the existing text. On the other hand, there are, of course, differences in whether we are talking about donations or some laws have different entities, that is indeed true. Of course, something has to be said here. I explained it yesterday. This is the purpose, independent entrepreneurs, legal persons, for which they are intended for grants are equal, meaning that there are no differences, of course also from the point of view of carrying out their activities, and this is a profitable activity, and the purpose of why they give activity. While separate here for natural persons in individual activities. And we believe that further enlargement of this Article, the real government considers that no further extension of this Article with other activities is necessary here. While some of the proposed in Article 9 are already involved in these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you, too. We will reopen the debate. Please sign up. Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State should and would also like to acknowledge the efforts to clarify things, and some things can also be explained and accepted. But let's say from my questions, there's still this: what about sports? And I see no reason, zaka, for example, because probably sport is an activity, why organizations engaged in sports activities could not be included in this circle as recipients of gifts and legacy shares and untaxed. Another time. Since it was not understandable to me or, despite the efforts made, the Secretary of State failed to explain this to the Secretary of State and the question of the religious communities is. I must say that in a way I have understood him very much among the lines that, in fact, religious communities are already excluded from the second paragraph of Article 3. So it was completely added in the end. If so, then why are they written as an activity in Article 9, paragraph 2, or in Article 9, paragraph 2, because they are the only ones written twice? Yeah, I don't know how else to understand, but this way it was explained to me when I specifically asked that question, and in this part, I just don't think it's accurate. As far as international comparisons are concerned, I would like to say the following. Look, I try not to have fundamental concerns when it comes to religious communities, and I don't have them. But of course, what Mr Gulič said, and what Mr Pece said, I mean, yesterday, there is some truth to it. We introduce into many laws, including the law on religious freedom, different categories, ways and possibilities of financing. And if the principle that you are advocating here is adopted, should each individual as a citizen or as an entrepreneur decide whether or not to devote more or less an important part of his income to charity, humanitarian, health and similar activities, including religious, yes, why not, it is right. But then we also need to properly regulate the funding system elsewhere, the tax collection system, the tax recording system and so on. But we have relatively vague solutions in this area or suddenly solutions that accumulate rights, which is not a good thing. And here it is very difficult, the government that is proposing this at the same time, and the coalition that at the same time approves this, always explains one piece, and we say, at this point it is quite correct. Yeah, that's right at this point. But if you're looking at the whole thing, you can see the purpose clearly, and then the question is whether it's still right or whether there's only a clear purpose behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday in another law, today in this, tomorrow again in one third, we are always on the same subject, relief, tax, such and different rights of the church. I understand that, respected colleagues and colleagues, accounts are large from the past, that the Vatican has financed a lot, including a magazine, a movement in socialism, that we are today in the form we are. But not so obvious to return that money back to where it came from. It's over. By doing this, you lose your own credibility. I just want to tell you something. In the West, paying taxes is an expression of honesty, respect for the state, and no one talks about how much he's earned, everyone talks about how much tax someone's paid. And it's blasphemous not to pay taxes. I do not see a person within Slovenia who could be forgiven, except those who are truly on the brink of poverty, who do not even have a basic survival. I'd forgive you, too. Not the ones with the big ones, yeah, where are we, who are you working for? In the interest of the Slovenian state, we should take care of Slovenia and Slovenia. You give priority to the Roman Catholic Church. Without shame in my daily life here in the National Assembly, I experience this. I would ask the representatives of the government to be reasonable, every day you bomb us with these privileges. What is the real pressure of the Roman Catholic Church on your government? What really has such a big impact on your work? Let's get this over with. It will not take a day for us not to have the relief agenda in this national assembly. And you've already returned everything that could be returned, what's been paid ten times, you sell it, you give it, you forgive it. I don't think you work in the interest of Slovenia. I really don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. And the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Of course, I want to be as precise as possible in my answers, which is why I will explain. Some are religious communities and these are not already taxable persons in accordance with Article 3 of the Law. Others include organisations, foundations, societies, etc. dealing with religious activities, and these are subject to exemption, which means that we have at least two entities here: religious communities that are outside the law, as I mentioned, and, secondly, religious activities, are forgiven here if an inheritance or gift is used for these purposes. From this point of view, I want to be clear here. The second thing I would like to say is that, in the framework, we are talking about non-governmental organisations here, and like the payment of taxes of value in other countries, in some countries, in others, in others, the principle of non-governmental organisations being financed by tax exemptions, or by not actually paying taxes, is that in the West. Here the government has decided to propose in this article a narrower definition to the National Assembly, a narrower definition than in the proposed amendment, and also considers that this is actually the right one. That is why we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I can still see the hands up, so I'm reopening the application. Please. Thank you very much. My colleague Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, allow me to begin with one observation, when you said that a representative or another minister of this government named you, as he called you by this, I mean, a bad light flew to the whole or all of us, Members of the National Assembly, because when you sit up there, you are the first of us and you represent us all. Therefore, first of all, thank you for speaking out loud about what has been said to you, and I myself feel called in this regard. As far as taxes are concerned, I have to say. In the implementation of the Secretary of State, it was mentioned that taxes are of value. Taxes are the duty, the duty of every citizen to settle them, and this duty must be adapted to people. It's not to represent it as a value, it's a duty we have to do. I myself will support the proposed amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, despite the fact that it is expanding the beneficiaries. I think he's spreading them into, I'll say, the right direction, and that's why I'm going to support him. I will also support it for another reason, perhaps a little selfish, so that the article remains open and can be amended in the third reading. The article, as proposed in the law, also mentions, and you yourself have mentioned this, exemption from the tax of religious communities, which will be in my eyes. Yesterday we gave them 0.5% of their income, so another tax was introduced, today we justify them paying the tax even though it is the richest economic operator in this country. Mr Secretary of State, in your implementation, you have mentioned that after article 3 the religious community or the church is exempt from tax, and here we have now gone on activities, activities dealing with enlargement, the renewal of a religious activity. You know, yesterday, when we discussed this and today, there is no activity in this country, whether it is fire, catering, sports, cultural, you tell an activity that the Church in the Republic of Slovenia would not be engaged in, does not exist, does not exist, but we go to construction, to place ceramics or whatever, it is not. The church has been present everywhere in this country since the moment the government of the Janša government takes place, so it is and do not hide behind words, speak frankly. We have taxed a whole bunch of people and citizens, today we tell them that it is a value to be able to pay a tax, because if they do not, they will be punished even though it is a value or because of your belief that they can pay a tax. While one institution in this country can only talk about one, you will claim that there are more religious communities, but we know which is the strongest and which, if the country could collect taxes, would make the most of the benefits on the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - and we constantly magnify either by 0.5% of the income or by exempting taxes. Let me tell you or answer one very specific question, the bishop's karitas throws a charity concert, does a charity renovation of a building, is a exempt tax, it is a religious activity, will pray a little before the concert, say a little bit about the glorification of the Lord himself, and this is already a religious activity. Let me know if there's a tax exemption or not? And whether I'm exempt from the tax, or not me, or any society that does the same thing, it'll forget from the front that it's a religious society or a charity, then society will do a sports event to finance or survive itself. And it can go, I'll make an example, for the fire company, because we know that we've also passed a company law, and on which part of its activities this fire company will pay the tax, and please be very specific? If the four volunteer firefighters - and I have to say that I am very proud of them, I think not only me, but the entire Slovenian National Party Group - are they going to bake their own shoes and sell them, are they going to be taxed or not? If you pray in front of the shoe, of course, there will be no tax. Therefore, I ask you, not with good faith, by evasively avoiding the expansion of activities as proposed by the Social Democratic Party, and thereby rejecting the adoption of this amendment, by misleading both the Slovenian public and those Members; I see that you cannot do yours because they are absolutely insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Zagorac, also for the words of support. If we do not fight for the reputation of our institution ourselves, no one will help us and then we must not be surprised to be as low as we are in the public eye. So thank you very much again. But Mr. Potch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. In pieces, I would say, we are making up a mosaic and the answer of the Secretary of State has been added to me by this mosaic. In fact, it is clear that the government has been defined to define inheritance tax exemptions and gifts as a possibility narrower than in some other cases. Thank you for that answer. But I want to find out that this means that it explicitly excluded the purpose of sport, which I think is bad, and I hope that there will ever be an opportunity to complement it. I would still hope that this is more of a case than a conscious definition, if it is conscious, really not good and I see no reason. And the big question is what is here with ecology; if this one is also excluded, I don't think it's good, because in some other cases it's involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for the morning session. Aleš Gulič, a fellow Member of Parliament, is on the list for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I do not have much time left, but I will once again point to the inconsistencies and suspicions of the unconstitutionality of this Article 9 as it is or as it would have been. In fact, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the reference to it in other countries still apply in Slovenia [[End warning sign]] religious activity can be financed or given tax gifts, then it is entirely irrelevant, since other constitutions of those countries listed there as samples do not have this. Of course it is. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Comrade Gulic, your time is up, so your microphone is automatically turned off. [[Back-up advertising.]] There is nothing, a better organisation within the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will have to be maintained. Thank you. A representative of the government also took part in the debate on Article 9. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I would like to answer Mr Zagorec's specific question, whether this tax will also be paid in order to organise a sports event organised by the religious community, and secondly, whether this tax will be paid when it comes to laying tiles. In both cases, it will not be paid, it is not an inheritance or a gift. Since this is not subject to taxation, this tax cannot be paid anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Of course, you have made it a little easier, it can also be an inheritance or a gift, someone can leave or give a gift - a matter that you said would not be taxed - either a religious community or an individual. But you didn't answer my second question when I mentioned society when I was talking about discrimination against societies. The Sveti Peter Sports Society, if it has a mass before a sports event, will be exempt from the tax because it extends the religious community, while now I will think again, the Partizan Sports Society from Maribor, because it will not have a mass before the football game, will pay the tax if it organises it. Will it or will it not, or will both societies be treated equally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you. I'm not going to let a replica on the replica, but I'm going to open another round of debaters. My friend Pojbič, you probably know the rules so well that there are no replicas on the replica. I'm sorry, I would be in violation of the rules of procedure and allow as long as I'm in charge of the meeting, that the Rules of Procedure should be interpreted as well. Thank you. As a matter of fact, I'm going to reopen the application procedure. All Members and representatives of the government, if you still have time available, please report. Thank you. The first one has the word of his colleague, Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thanks again for saying that. Although I am sorry that the government representative has no opportunity to respond before I get the floor in this new round as a debate. I know this would be a violation of the rules of procedure. Of course, the gestures of individual Members are also interesting if they have something to say. It is very interesting, except that they are waving at the vice-president to apply themselves, but I am very sorry if the experts have not prepared the debates for you. I would like to stress and ask again and really hope for the answer. I gave you a comparison of two societies. We've changed the company law. You know that, too. Let me tell you how taxing one society or another will help me not to repeat my names again, which would be very strange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite a representative of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Once again, I answer that question. In both cases, it is not an inheritance and a gift. In organizing a football game, it's not an inheritance or a gift. As a result, the whole event in this law that we are considering today does not fall at all. So maybe this isn't the best case. There are other things about inheritances and gifts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I know it'll be easier for you to put your words in my mouth. If I lay them down for you, I hope you know how to answer me one more time. If one such company receives a gift, a sports event, they will be taxed both, no one will be taxed or only one company or other society will be taxed? And another question you'll find easier to refer to. If my cousin, who I'm very attached to, leaves something, will I pay the tax or not? Actually, it's about me, or if she gives it to me, I'll tell the lighthouse in Malek or St. Peter, as you call him, at Maribor, will this church pay taxes or will it not? I don't think I can be more concrete than that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you. The Minister will be able to sign up for an answer, and I'm opening a new round of applications. Please. Thank you. Now I'm asking the government representative if he wants to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	I'd answer that. Here, of course, is the question of what purpose this gift will actually be intended or whether this gift will be intended for one of the activities cited by the law. That's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you. A colleague of Zagorac also reported on the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you, one last time for your word. I believe it's meant to be an activity. At the outset, in my debate, I said that there was simply no activity that the church would not be involved in. So I consider your answer that in this case I will be taxed when I receive this gift, but not the church, because I am not registered for all activities, but for the work I am doing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	Is there any other desire for a debate? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today within the framework of the vote point, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 20.25 hours. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on the water-floating tax. In doing so, I inform you that we have an estimated 1 hour and 30 minutes for a joint debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a water vessel tax law replaces the applicable taxation of craft. The law consists of a modern way of taxing vessels, a new way of determining the amount and calculation of the tax liability for each vessel and defining the tax procedure more precisely. After first reading, the draft law did not see any substantive changes, and a broader definition of the subject matter of taxation is an important novelty of the new bill. The tax is newly prescribed for vessels that are more than 5 metres long. The tax obligation is more precisely defined and takes into account the individual characteristics of the vessel. The amount of the obligation shall be calculated according to the classification of the vessel in one of the three classes, within this class the amount of the obligation to add the fixed part and the two variable parts calculated according to the length of the rules and according to the propulsion with which the vessel is equipped. The law is slightly expanding the circle of conspirators. In addition to natural persons, it includes other persons if they have the vessel as an investment form or if the vessel is used simultaneously for the purpose of carrying out the activity and for private purposes. It points out once again that vessels which are used to carry out a registered activity are not subject to taxation under this law in so far as other activities, such as manufacturing activities, are concerned. In accordance with the above-mentioned proposal, the National Assembly should support the proposal for a law, including the proposed amendment. I also propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thanks again for saying that. Your Honor! The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy has also considered the proposal for a bill on taxation on watercraft. We have received comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 17, 18 and 20, and as additional material we have received a written proposal from the Chamber of Agriculture and within the time limit of the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club to Article 8 and of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 1 to 40. At its own meeting in the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the legislative and legal service stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed her comments and her opinion, with the exception of the comment to the 15th indent of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the proposed law. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 18, 20. On this basis, a complementary draft law, which is being transmitted, has been prepared and we propose that such a national assembly should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you, Comrade Starman. Since the assembly held its first hearing on the draft law at its 21st extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24.10. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. None of the Members present have applied, nor have the Governments, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or no later than 20 and 25 minutes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's a second defensively proposed law on marine fishing. We've got 33 minutes scheduled for the point. The bill has also been tabled this time for consideration by the assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I give the floor to further explain to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which I also warmly welcome at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Maritime Fisheries Act is a harmonisation of national rules with the European acquis and will, together with the sub-legislative acts, be the basis for the implementation of the EU's common fisheries policy. The aim of the law is to regulate areas of fisheries in areas where Community rules provide for more detailed arrangements at national level. In particular, the law governs the area of fisheries management covering: the establishment of fishing areas for fish farming, the rules for the sustainable use of fish, the tasks relating to the conservation of the favourable condition of fish and the achievement of a good ecological condition, the authorisation of economic and non-economic fisheries, and the issuance of permits for free fishing, the management of regulated records, lists and reporting, the places of sale and landing of fish, the public services of fisheries, the financing of fisheries, the status and insurance of fishermen, natural persons, control and other maritime fisheries related issues. The law introduces some important changes that will enable the sector to develop. It is appropriate to point out here the re-regulation of the more favourable status for marine fishermen, to which fishing is the only and main activity. In accordance with pension and disability legislation, fishermen will be able to pay a reduction in the rate of social contributions, which will also enable the survival of socially weaker fishermen. Fishermen who benefit from this option must be registered in the register and in accordance with the rules on pension, disability and health insurance equivalent to farmers. The law also fully regulates sports and recreational fishing at sea. The solution is introduced by granting licences for non-economic fisheries which will be transferred by public authority to an authorised organisation. This provision removes major administrative obstacles, as the Ministry has issued approximately 900 licences per year to non-economic fishermen under the current law. The law also regulates public services and lays down the powers for the effective implementation of the common fisheries policy and the tasks assigned by the Ministry on the basis of public authority. I suggest that the law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Maria Lukačič. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the member of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 16th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal of the Law on Maritime Fisheries submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Legal and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the draft law, members of the Committee adopted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture and Food. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food presented in an additional introductory explanation a proposal for a law on marine fisheries, which brings national rules into line with the European acquis, and together with sub-legislative rules, will form the basis for the implementation of the European Union's common fisheries policy. The aim of the law is to regulate the area of fisheries in areas where Community rules provide for more detailed regulation at national level. The Act mainly regulates the areas of fisheries management covering the definition of fishing areas for fish farming, lays down the rules for the sustainable use of fish, the tasks relating to the conservation of the favourable condition of fish and the achievement of good ecological status, the granting of authorisations for economic and non-economic fisheries, and the issuing of permits for free fishing, the cultivation and collection of marine organisms, the keeping of records, lists and reporting, the places of sale and landing of fish, the public fisheries service, the financing of fisheries, the status and insurance of fishermen, natural persons, the control and other maritime fisheries related issues. The law also introduces some important changes, such as a favourable status regime for marine fishermen, whose fishing is the only and main activity. In accordance with pension and disability legislation, fishermen will be able to pay reduced rates of social contributions, which will also enable the survival of socially weaker fishermen. The law also fully regulates sports and recreational fishing at sea. The solution is introduced by granting licences for non-economic fisheries which will be transferred by public authority to an authorised organisation. The law also regulates public services and lays down the power to implement the common fisheries policy effectively and the tasks assigned to them by the Ministry on the basis of public authority. The following members of the Committee adopted 19 amendments to the law, mainly on the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service. Finally, they confirmed all the articles and adopted the decision that the law was appropriate for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure and the practice so far, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members follows. My colleague Srečko Friend will introduce us to the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is extremely urgent that the state regulates the social status of marine fishermen, as they warn us of this from their independence onward. However, it is too late and also somewhat poorly arranged. I'll tell you why. This bill actually offers lower contributions to professional fishermen. That's right. We must therefore also support this proposal, but it should be noted that the law itself does not offer a comprehensive solution to this problem. For example, the solution that a tourist vessel, which also offers fish picnics and is long, say, 15 meters, has as many as three bathrooms, for women, men and staff, is, of course, unacceptable for these fishermen, who have this as a complementary activity during tourism. We know that in this area they can expect a significant loss of family income. It is also essential to remove all bureaucratic obstacles that make entrepreneurship development difficult for fishermen and do not provide them with sufficient assistance in obtaining the investment funds offered by Europe. Nor has the state done almost nothing to draw on all the resources provided by the cohesion funds of the European Community in this area. However, the draft Maritime Fisheries Act does not solve the second major issue, which is the jurisdiction over fishing reserves. Of course, the fact that the government itself, i.e. the foreign ministry, has done nothing to ensure that the specific contract prescribed by the fishing section of SOPS, which has not yet been concluded by Slovenia and Croatia, is essentially legally valid. This is why we are witnessing confusion and injustice at sea, especially for some parts of the Slovenian coast on which Croatians are hunting, including by means of so-called prohibited fishing methods, using lamps, for example. We don't talk about how our fishermen are insured when they come up with the so-called imaginary borderline of Croats. They have no legal, moral, or actual protection whatsoever. This proposal of the Maritime Fisheries Act is some progress. We can't deny it. It is a step forward, but very careless work done in this area. I would not boast much in this regard, because if we really wanted to offer the integrity of the solution in this area, we would have drawn up a different law, which would also be supported by an agreement, which should also apply bilaterally, because we know that there are a lot of agreements signed between Slovenia and Croatia and none of them have been respected, and our diplomacy has done nothing. We would like to see laws coming to the National Assembly, which would have weight even after the adoption and which the Slovenian government would in fact ensure that they are respected. I believe that this law, once adopted, will not be respected and will not offer to fishermen or to fishermen what is written here today within the framework of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Stana Pajk will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u157	Your Honor! The law now in force is from 2002. At that time, legislation had to be amended to allow Slovenia to enter the European Union. In 2002, the 1976 legislation was amended when there were completely different situations in this area. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the EU's acquis has entered into force since Slovenia has not negotiated a transitional period. There are reasons for changing the law now in force and for incorporating a European legal order in this area. After the independence of Slovenia, Slovenian sea fishing reduced catches from an average of 6000 tonnes to 1700 tonnes of fish annually. Fishing vessels are obsolete and smaller dimensions suitable for coastal fishing. The average share of GDP is 0.016%, which is small, but we cannot only estimate marine fisheries according to GDP, but we must also look at it from a traditional perspective. Maritime fisheries must also be seen from a social point of view and in connection with tourism. The financial situation of marine fishermen deteriorated significantly with the entry into force of the law in 2002, as the status of the fish-farmer was abolished at that time, and sea fishermen were then equal to entrepreneurs in other economic activities after paying social contributions. This is being rectified in this law and in accordance with pension and disability legislation and will allow new fishermen to pay reduced social contributions, allowing the economically weakest marine fishermen to survive. The proposal provides for the transfer of a greater share of tasks to the Slovenian Fisheries Institute, which will take over data collection, reporting and control of implementation. The law also regulates sport and recreational fishing at sea, so that the allocation of sport permits is transferred to the authorised organisation, the areas of fisheries management, the establishment of fish farming areas, the establishment of rules for the sustainable use of fish and the preservation of the good condition of fish and the ecological situation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is good, and we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you. My colleague, Aurelio Juri, will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will also commend the Social Democrats for this law, which finally regulates something that all governments so far and all ministries have been unable to resolve, in particular the issue of the status of fishermen, despite warnings from the Coasts by fishermen. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Nevertheless, we call on the government not to give up on the situation of these people who have, in whatever way we regulate their status and their rights by law, a limited source of survival, either because the sea is small or because the source is, therefore, a fishing fund is limited and does not depend on their skills and their knowledge, but depends on natural circumstances. So they just take and survive what nature gives. Of course, it's how much they take and how much they hunt, depending on their skills, but the source is fundamental. Therefore, this attention of the government to their situation should not be undermined. A friend of his already mentioned some other circumstances that encourage fishermen to survive or not. It is also a matter of paying attention to these circumstances to other ministries, the Ministry of the Environment, as regards, of course, the environmental aspects of the area in which fishermen live and fish, to the foreign ministry, which must finally address the issue of the undefined maritime border with Croatia and, if not, again, I call for a third-country assessment, the Ministry of Transport, which also cares that Luke has its waterways and ships, which are already obstructing fishing activities, to do so as little as possible. And to reflect on the ministry within European common policy, including fisheries policy, we will also work in Slovenia to encourage the form of cooperation with Italy and Croatia in drawing on the fish fund, so that we will also, through the forms of consortia, however, other forms of integration, cooperation and joint work, develop a policy that will regulate fishing technology, the area of fishing, the status of fishermen. We have a small northern Adriatic, a small Straza bay, within which also belongs the Slovenian sea. If there is no common, coordinated, synergistic policy with Italy and Croatia, that is, with our neighbours, who have a stronger fleet with more knowledge, including more aquators, the conditions of survival of our fishermen will also deteriorate. With the support of the law, of course, there is still the question of not giving up the Government's attention to their status and monitoring carefully what is happening and co-forming with neighbours a better fishing environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you, Comrade Yuri. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u161	The reasons for the adoption of the new Maritime Fisheries Act are, in particular, that Slovenia has not negotiated exceptions or some previous periods in this area. With Slovenia's entry into the EU, legal acts of the European Community have thus entered into force, and this has caused us to disagree between the current law on fisheries and the current acquis of the European Community. The key principles and main solutions to the new law are, in particular, that the new law regulates the area of fish management, determines fishing areas for fish farming, lays down rules for the sustainable use of fish and lays down tasks relating to the conservation of the favourable state of fish and the achievement of good ecological status. The law also introduces some innovations that will enable the development of fisheries in our country. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased to re-organise a more favourable status for marine economic fishermen, for those who are the only or main activity. Fishermen, as natural persons under the new law under pension and disability legislation, may be able to pay reduced rates of social contributions. If I say otherwise, they will be able to provide pension and disability insurance as if they were carrying out a basic agricultural activity. The law also simplifies the acquisition of fishing permits for sport and recreational fishing at sea. Licences will be issued in accordance with the proposal by an authorised organisation to be selected by the agricultural ministry at a public invitation to tender. However, the law regulates other areas, regulates public services and lays down powers for the effective implementation of the common fisheries policy, and in particular many tasks are transferred from the public authority to the fisheries office of the Republic of Slovenia, which will take over the entire data collection and reporting and control of the fisheries system. In New Slovenia we will support the proposed law. We see as the biggest gain of the law that marine fishermen will have a more favourable status, and in fact we commend the agricultural policy in this area that has offered the fishermen a hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you. And the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by colleague Josip Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u163	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-worker. The law means the harmonisation and regulation of fisheries in those parts where national legislation has to regulate or comply with European Union rules. The proposal for a law provides a legal framework which, on the basis of the regulations drawn up, will enable the implementation of a common fisheries policy within the European Union and which is to enter into force as from 1.1.2007. The law also regulates a number of innovations that we believe will allow for the continued existence and development of fisheries, both professional and non-professional or sporting in our country. It is important for us to point out, in particular, the re-regulation of the more favourable status for sea-faring fishermen, which is the only and main activity, as it newizes the status of fishermen as natural persons. In accordance with pension and disability legislation, fishermen will have the option of paying reduced rates of social contributions, which will also enable the survival of the socially weakest fishermen who are the only operators. The bill also fully regulates sport and recreational fishing at sea, which will be regulated and will allow for less competition for economic fishermen or fishermen living with fisheries. The solution is also the introduction of a non-economic fishing permit to be transferred to an authorised organisation. The law also regulates public services and lays down powers for the effective implementation of the common fisheries policy, and in particular many tasks are delegated by public authority to the Slovenian Fisheries Institute. Complements and amendments to the draft law by amendments to the home body shall take into account the comments of the legislative and legal services of the national assembly and shall also improve only the text of the law. In view of all the above, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law on marine fisheries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you, Comrade Bajc. We have also concluded with this presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and, of course, the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. I thank the Minister for her participation so far. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Supplementary Environment for Entrepreneurship. We've got 40 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I offer the floor to the Minister of Economy, who has not yet. Allow me just a moment to see if it is a mandate and if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 235. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in its third paragraph in the context of the Sub-chapter Government participation in the work of the National Assembly, I am taking note of the other Members and, of course, you say: "At a meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister or Chairman of the Government Service, as determined by the Government, may represent the Government. In the event of absence or detention, he may replace the Minister of State or the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry..." From this address, I ask you whether the Minister is present in the National Assembly. It's not. Then, of course, they can't do the presentation. We will move on to the report of the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, the Labour Authority. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Mr President of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Economy, as its parent labour, considered and supported the proposal of the law. The Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and adopted the amendments on the basis of this opinion. The amendments are included in the updated draft law you have in the report of the Committee. According to the Committee on the Economy, the new law constitutes progress in promoting the development of entrepreneurship. You have a detailed report of the Committee on the Economy in writing, and I propose that, on behalf of the Committee, you accept or accept the proposal. More precisely, the government has prepared an economy ministry and the government has adopted a broader programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship. The Committee will consider this programme at one of the first next meetings. The programme will be the basis for further legislative development and government policy direction in the area of entrepreneurship promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ferry Horvat. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Ambassador Stane Pajk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u167	Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment is a legal framework for the operation of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which can be defined in six points: the promotion of investment investments in SMEs; the promotion of the establishment of new enterprises in a particularly innovative environment; the equalisation of credit and other financial conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises with larger enterprises; the entry of the Fund into the financial market in a segment where the existing banking market does not work effectively enough; the promotion of capital investments in all stages of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises with credit funds; and the promotion of capital investments with different forms of guarantees. The proposal proposes that the Fund for the implementation of its purpose should be added in addition to existing instruments, which are direct and direct loans, guarantees for loans and various subsidies, including new instruments such as: capital investments, financial purchases, leasing and other financing carried out in relation to those instruments. This is sufficient to meet the increased demand for risky sources of funding and to ensure faster growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of new innovative companies. The draft law also regulates the procedure for the allocation of grants, credits, guarantees and other co-financing. The procedure is logically the same as that laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which applies to direct budgetary users, but not to indirect users. The proposed law is only one of a kind that pursues the objective of promoting entrepreneurship mainly in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and the environment in this area. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law because we believe it will accelerate the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the engine of economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you, Comrade Pike. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Mr Ferri Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. The draft law will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Let me say that the proposal for a law has been the subject of coordination within the framework of the development partnership. In doing so, we have expressed the view from the parliamentary group in the coordination process that the proposal, as proposed, for the creation of a venture capital fund and other instruments such as financial leasing, leasing and other implementation financing is useful. However, we have also warned the proposer and made a number of concrete proposals. We have pointed out that the proposed measures are not sufficient to provide comprehensive and effective support for the development of entrepreneurship. The proposer adopted comments and proposals in principle and ensured that the Government would draw up a comprehensive entrepreneurship promotion programme and, on this basis, also prepare and submit a new proposal for a law. The Programme of Action is ready and we expect the Economic Committee to consider it soon at one of the first next meetings. Of course, we expect the government to draw up a new law on a comprehensive system of entrepreneurship promotion on the basis of this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Member Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-known representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support amendments and additions to the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. The fact is that small and medium-sized enterprises represent the backbone of the national economy and are key factors of competitive advantage on a global scale. It is in this area that Slovenia is significantly lagging behind compared to economically successful countries. Only by providing more favourable financial resources at the start-up stage as well as at the stage of further development and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises can these differences be reduced. The government has also stated in its adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia that the promotion of entrepreneurial development and competitiveness is based on the promotion of investment and strategic projects that are development-oriented and on the development of new models of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the Action Plan for implementing the guidelines set out that in 2006 and 2007, mechanisms should be put in place to increase investment in service activities, by encouraging small enterprise initiatives, by improving access to initial and risk capital and by simplifying and reducing banking lending procedures. This is the basic purpose of the entrepreneurship fund. The proposed law supports guidelines and measures to improve access to finance resources for SMEs by laying the foundations for the development of new instruments under the existing fund in response to shortcomings and new needs, namely, those new instruments and new sources of funds are capital investments, financial leases or leasing, and other financing carried out in relation to the previously mentioned instruments. The law opens up opportunities to connect the public fund with other public law institutions, which would contribute to pooling and increasing funds and their more efficient investments. Furthermore, the procedure for allocating subsidies, credits, guarantees and other forms of co-financing is also fully regulated. The procedure shall make sense of the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall apply to direct budgetary users. The law is therefore based on the definitions and fundamental values of entrepreneurship and the recommendations of the European Union to achieve the common strategic objectives, and we will therefore support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Member Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship is in second reading. It is proposed by the Ministry of Economy. The proposed law has laid down some legal basis for keeping records, rules for the operation of funds, strengthening the innovation capacity of enterprises and providing an enabling environment for the creation and initial operation of new innovative companies, for more transparent and efficient directing of public funds, and directing resources more directly to the development priorities of each sector or group of undertakings. It therefore opens up new possibilities for further fund production and pooling investment support funds. We are convinced that this charter for small businesses, which has also been adopted by the European Council on the basis of the Lisbon Strategy, includes recommendations to small businesses to take advantage of the knowledge-based economy. By granting this Charter, countries are committed to implementing appropriate measures, such as in particular key tasks for communities and countries to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, to promote the creation of new enterprises and to ensure successful growth of existing ones, so countries need to improve the environment in which businesses are created and are also developing. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is a key task of the country, in particular to encourage an appropriate legislative framework and to develop an adapted development infrastructure and institutional organisation to provide the most accessible and effective support for entrepreneurial initiatives at all stages of development. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that in the area of capital investment and financial assistance provided, funds worked well at the level of the municipality, which successfully helped individual micro and small enterprises because they knew their needs and were in direct contact with them. We believe that when preparing the law, the proposer has taken into account the opinions and views of stakeholders in the country, so that the law will be directed as far as possible to meet the needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia. We support changes that will improve access to funding sources and encourage the further development of small, medium and large enterprises in Slovenia with new fund instruments. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the process of obtaining funds we should ensure as much simplification as possible, and it is imperative to take into account the time-consuming component that is particularly important in the development of businesses. However, in the parliamentary group, we believe that the applicants should take into account the warnings of the legal service, including the possibility of a complaint by the applicant to the Fund's contract. So far, the Fund has resolved these complaints, and the fact is that the Fund cannot be the body that would decide at the same time on the allocation of funds and at the same time on complaints. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the two-step procedure is certainly the party's right in the process and the best solution. The Ministry of the Economy should therefore find a way to entrust within the Ministry a service that would be professional enough to resolve a complaint about the decision of the Fund. The Slovenian People's Party will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you. A presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is still under way. Comrade Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship is one such law, which can hardly be opposed by the title of the law, even if we are aware of the importance of entrepreneurship, the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Slovenia and how entrepreneurship affects the development of Slovenia as such. I will not repeat this myself because my forerunners spoke when they were reading the explanation for why such a marriage was necessary. However, I would like to address the issue to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are interested in two matters in the Slovenian National Party. First of all, the tendering procedure shall be run by a three-member committee appointed by the Fund's Director. Members shall not be interested in the application applicants. It's all right and all right. However, the continuation, "except where it is impossible to take this into account due to a limited number of experts in a given field." This is one supplement that can be very strange, especially when we go to a limited number, I'll say, experts. That is why I would like to hear from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia where this is a limited number of experts and whether it can be defined more precisely, because a limited number of experts can be in every field if we look at the offer and the demand for individual experts in the Republic of Slovenia. The other thing is the fund. The government has recently set up a whole set of funds dedicated to, I will say, the development or assistance of a particular segment in our country, even though we know that funds are one of the possible ways in which financial transactions are not transparent and that aid to individual institutions is not transparent. Funds could, like the Commissions in this National Assembly, be defined as things that are being set up to conceal something or things that stop to make a person rich. Therefore, I would also like to know in advance what law will be the next to establish some fund for the development of a particular segment, which will, of course, contribute to the development of this country. At least we hope so in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no additions or amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am also concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENERGY LAW. We've got two hours and 10 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. In my opinion, she'll take the word of a mag. It's old hair. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing a law amending and supplementing the energy law, which introduces changes in some way in three key areas. This is to ensure the security of natural gas supply, to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and to change the inspection regime. As far as ensuring security of natural gas supply is concerned, the main objective of the amendment is to transpose the European Community Directive 67/2004 into the Slovenian legal order. The law imposes security of supply especially on natural gas suppliers in Slovenia and partly on system operators. In doing so, the law follows the principle of directing the directive in order to ensure, in the first place, the security of gas supply must be cared for by suppliers who can choose, of course, between the various possible measures, but all of these measures must have the same effect, so that, in the event of the circumstances cited by the standards of security of supply, they provide sufficient supply to the protected categories. The main solutions to the law in the area of ensuring security of gas supply are, in particular, the obligations of the transmission and distribution system operators to ensure the reliable functioning of this network and its appropriate capacity, the duty of major suppliers to ensure in particular the security of gas supply in the Republic of Slovenia through the diversification of their resources, the obligation of all natural gas suppliers to report on their actions to ensure reliable supply, the identification of specific customers, those to whom gas supply is in the event of circumstances that represent the gas security standards, securely guaranteed, the establishment of standards for the security of gas supply. The proposed law also lays down national emergency measures to be implemented by system operators. Although these planned measures do not allow a reliable supply of gas to specific customers, the law imposes on system operators to limit the transfer to certain categories of customers. The law authorises the Government to establish by regulation a series of restrictions on the supply of individual categories of customers or their expenditure. The proposed law requires the Agency to report these issues to the Commission of the European Community. The law also introduces new penalties for violators and introduces new provisions of the Natural Gas Supply Safety Act. In the field of energy efficiency buildings, Articles of Directive 2002/91 of the European Community on the energy efficiency of buildings relating to the verification of the technical, environmental and economic feasibility of alternative energy supply systems for new buildings with a useful floor area exceeding 1,000 square metres shall be transposed by this Act. [[End warning sign]] , the establishment of a system for the issuance of building energy cards at the time of the construction, sale or surrender of these buildings, the establishment of regular inspections of air-conditioning systems in buildings, the provision of independent experts for the certification of these buildings and the inspection of air-conditioning systems and the information of building users. [[End warning sign]] . As far as inspection is concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u178	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u179	The amendments were adopted unanimously by the Committee on the Economy, which in particular [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you. I warned you, your time is up. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u181	[[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] The secretary of state with the co-workers, with respect, there is no colleague, colleagues. [[...]] The Committee on the Economy, as its mother's working body, has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law. As the Secretary of State stated in the introduction, the aim of the law is to regulate three areas: the reliability of the supply of natural gas, the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings and the strengthening of the role of inspection. The Committee took into account the fact that the draft law follows the directives of the European Union and has also taken into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. On this basis, it has adopted amendments which are included in the amended draft law. As energy is becoming an increasingly important topic of action in the European Union as well, it is expected that we will soon meet this issue again in the national assembly as well as in the institutions of the European Union. The European Council has already decided to prepare or adopt the 'Energy Policy for Europe' document in spring 2007. The implementation of this policy will be a priority for the European Union in the coming years. And so we can see from the latest draft of the 18-month Presidency Programme of the three countries: Germany, Portugal and, of course, Slovenia, that energy will also be one of the priority themes in the Presidency of the three countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group of Members, by which colleague Bojan Rugelj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice welcome to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry, headed by Mrs Andrijana Kos. The main objective of the New Energy Law is to ensure the security of the supply of natural gas and at the same time brings to the Slovenian legal order Directive 2004/67 of the European Community. This Directive requires Member States to define in their legislation the roles and responsibilities of the various natural gas market players and to set appropriate minimum standards for security of supply to be met by these actors. In particular, the law imposes security of supply measures on suppliers of natural gas in Slovenia, and partly on system operators, and in doing so follows the principle of directing the directive of the European Community, so that suppliers who can choose between different possible measures are primarily responsible for the security of gas supply, but all these measures must have the same effect in the event of circumstances cited by the standards of security of supply, ensuring sufficient supply to protected categories of customers. However, if these measures are not sufficient, it is necessary to implement the necessary national measures, which may also, at the last stage, limit or interrupt the supply of certain categories of customers or their expenditures. The measures to be taken by suppliers are, in particular, the diversification of their purchasing resources, the provision of a secure network and its appropriate capacity and the regular reporting of its actions to ensure the security of gas supply to the relevant institutions. In addition to ensuring the security of supply of natural gas, the proposed law also introduces changes to the inspection regime, which are of a more terminological nature. In addition to Directive 2004/67 of the European Community, Directive 2002/91 of the European Community is also being implemented in the Slovenian legal order, which will make a major contribution to the equalisation of energy requirements and the uniformity of building standards in the Member States. The draft law also regulates the supplement to the network, which is part of the price for the use of electricity networks for the financing of programmes, efficient use and renewable energy sources. The draft law also eliminates the shortcomings of the energy law, which have proved to be the practice so far. A more important novelty is the introduction of so-called energy cards, which in the long term will certainly have an impact on the reduction of energy consumption for heating mainly residential buildings. The bill follows the objective of ensuring certain safe and secure energy supply for Slovenia, taking into account the most stringent environmental requirements, and we will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u185	Dear President, esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we reviewed the law on changes and additions to the energy law. We have found that the bill refers to certain directives and corrects, for example, the poorly formulated provisions of the current law. However, we have seen things that would be useful to clear up, namely, the promotion of renewable energy sources is in practice already well done through a functioning system of subsidised redemption prices and the subsidy is already being fuelled from every kilowatt hours of electricity consumed, and this new supplement is also expected to be introduced. Now it is not entirely clear whether it is a duplication or an end to the current system. We are also lacking in promoting the use of cogeneration, so-called cogeneration, or even the introduction of trigeneration, because this is not covered by renewable energy sources - of course the reason which then also leads to the fact that, in some way, the opinion of the Committee on the Environment as an interested working body would also be welcome here. One more thing I'd like to say about the energy cards. It is envisaged that all those who rent part of an existing building must submit an energy card after 1.1.2009 to the tenant. This Directive does not require this but refers to this obligation in the case of whole buildings. This now means that, under this law, every broadcaster of the smallest room in the existing block, where all the top-level owners together will not carry out an energy review, will be obliged to provide an energy review of the entire building. So this will be a very burdensome cost, which will result in black broadcasting or very high prices, because it will still have to be passed on to the tenants. And there's some other thing that could be found that tells us that things weren't really set right. It is precisely in the buildings that the problem is that Slovenia should take this into its legal order by February of this year. Preparations have already been, I think, set up in the previous government, it is said, in time, but apparently something has been complicated by the breakdown of the energy mix, as well as by the desire to control energy from one party so strong that things will then stop, and the law will be passed there by the end of the year, for example, and then there will be very little time for sub-legal acts and the delay in taking over the directive will be two years. So what we're doing right now is some kind of fire extinguishing. In short, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not oppose the proposal of the law, but we have warned of some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you. Ambassador Fari Horvat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. In doing so, we are aware that this law deals only with a few issues, but in particular the first two issues are extremely important. Safe gas supply, given that winter is coming and that it has been in Europe, fortunately not to a large extent, some bitter experience with gas supply or at least after some uncertainty, is important to deal with this issue. Secondly, even in view of the fact that it is right for heating and in general for the supply of residential buildings with energy, there are still quite a number of reserves for rational use, this issue is also very topical and it is right that the law has taken place. In doing so, we are also convinced that there are still a number of energy issues to be tackled. As far as we are concerned, the government or, above all, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment are working on this. As I said earlier on behalf of the Committee, we expect that these issues, the proposals for action and the legislative proposals will soon be met in this national assembly. As you know, there are also a number of consultations at home and also within European institutions, including the European Parliament. So far, several meetings have been held, where representatives of the National Assembly have also been actively involved with the Ministry of Economy and the environment, and this will certainly be even more intense and more frequent in the months ahead and in the years ahead. This will also be a priority and we also support this until the Slovenian EU Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u189	Hello again! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the law on changes and additions to the energy law. In fact, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment and the place of co-proposer of the change in energy law are changes in the impact of the implementation of directives in several areas. The set of amendments concerns three main areas: first, ensuring the security of natural gas supply, which is due to the implementation of the Directive or the direction of Directive 2004/67 of the European Community. Another area is to increase the energy efficiency of buildings. This area is also linked to the implementation of the directive, which falls under the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The third area concerns inspection arrangements. Slovenia is fully dependent on imports in the provision of natural gas and Council Directive 2004/67 also requires the preparation of national emergency measures for gas supply disruptions. As regards the security of natural gas supply, the law defines the obligations of suppliers. The main solutions, which constitute a higher security of supply, are the obligations of the transmission and distribution network system operators to ensure the reliable functioning of the network and its appropriate capacity. Another important package is the duty of major suppliers to ensure the reliability of supply by diversifying their resources. It is also important that all natural gas suppliers report on their security measures. The proposed law also lays down measures to be implemented by system operators, requiring only that they draw up a plan of emergency measures to be implemented if the previous measures are not sufficient, this is the right set of measures to increase the security of Slovenia's supply of natural gas and, in particular, its obligations to suppliers and system operators in this area. The very important area covered by the law is the energy efficiency of buildings. This is an area in both Slovenia and the EU that consumes around 40% of final energy, which is very important both in terms of energy efficiency itself and in terms of energy security and in particular in terms of reducing environmental impacts. In the case of new buildings with a useful floor area of more than 1000 square metres and in the case of reconstructed buildings with the same border area where the heating system is replaced, the designer will have to prepare a specific study during the production phase of the construction permit documentation, which will be the basis for the assessment, if it has the sense, in the appropriate location of the heating oil boiler, of this [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] to be replaced with a more modern one, also for connection, such as a remote heating system, a heat pump and the like. The second requirement is that the owner of the building may have to attach an energy card to the new building, to the buyer or to the tenant before the contract is concluded. This is a document demonstrating the energy efficiency of the building. The energy law also transposes the Directive's obligation to regularly review climate systems with a baseline power of more than 12 kilowatts. Of course, energy law also needs to regulate the system of authorised independent experts who will issue energy cards and carry out regular reviews of climate systems. In the field of inspections, it is important to delimit the powers of energy and market inspections. In fact, clearer rules in the field of inspection shall be laid down on the implementation of both the rules on the safe and reliable operation of energy systems and on the other hand the technical requirements for products and ensuring compliance of those products, where they are on the market. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by its colleague Kristijan Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u191	Once again, thank you very much for the chairman. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law concerns three fundamental areas, as also set out in its recital. It is therefore a matter of ensuring the security of the supply of natural gas, increasing the energy efficiency of buildings and changing the inspection regime. In addition, certain tasks resulting from legislative changes in certain other areas are introduced into the law. The law follows the directives of the European Union, in particular as a result of recent complications in the supply of Russian gas and it is necessary to ensure, in accordance with the European Directive, the security of supply of natural gas in the event of disturbances and special circumstances. Ensuring security of supply is also the main objective of addressing energy law. The law thus imposes certain obligations on distribution network operators and larger suppliers which must take care of certain measures and report them to the competent ministry or other institutions. Another area governed by the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act is, first and foremost, the implementation of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive. In this regard, however, a Member State, i.e. Slovenia, must take a number of measures. Thus, among other things, a system of building energy cards is established when building sales or broadcasting. These cards will be issued by a construction inspection. With regard to energy cards, the obligation to produce a study, alternative heating or cooling systems for larger new buildings and the obligation to inspect air-conditioning facilities, the question of red tape is of course also raised. The negotiation of such standards, even if it is in accordance with the requirements of the European Union, must be ensured that it was not [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] requirements for additional administrative restrictions or even possibilities for successful enrichment of businesses or individuals. [[...]] For example, we know such a story in car stickers. Nevertheless, we are all aware that the inefficient use of buildings generates high costs. On the other hand, there are a number of negative environmental impacts. In this regard, in particular, more intensive information is needed to inform the population about the long-term reduction in costs in the event of increased energy efficiency of buildings. Unfortunately, this is also true by reducing investment costs at the expense of less energy efficiency in particular for the construction of buildings. In this way, of course, the cost differences shift to the future and only increase the cost of the building over the long term. In addition, solutions are proposed for the sharing of energy costs in several residential buildings. The current irregular system is causing a number of problems. We expect that the new law will be able to resolve these issues more quickly, especially in a fairer way. The law also introduces a supplement to networks to finance programmes of efficient use and renewable energy sources. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the supplement does not entail an additional load of kilowatt hours of electricity, but provides an additional specific fund of funds to be used for a specified purpose. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Government Representatives. However, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the energy law has only one specific feature. When our delegation, the government's economics, flew to Russia, I don't know if everyone could have flown one plane, but today the minister is not here, but interesting, but actually it would have been nice if he were between us. The proposed law, as my predecessors have already said, introduces changes in three fundamental areas: ensuring the security of the supply of natural gas, enhancing the energy efficiency of buildings, and the change of regulation in inspection is visible. The main solutions are many, but only some would mention: the obligation of system operators to provide a transmission distribution network to ensure the secure functioning of the network is laid down in the law, which is good, because we know that accidents are still something in this area, and the obligation of all natural gas suppliers to report on their measures to ensure the security of gas supply to the energy ministry is also enshrined in the law. The establishment of standards for the security of gas supply, followed by the European Community Directive 67/EC, is also incorporated into this Act. It is interesting that these plans and measures do not allow the reliable supply of gas to specific customers, who know that they depend on gas supply, the government is competent to essentially produce the order of these supplies to priority categories of customers. Of course, a government regulation can do this when a crisis arises. This government regulation would probably be adopted by the government at its meeting in this case because it is not annexed to this law. However, we do not believe in the law that in essence the amendment introduces a supplement to the network in price for the use of electricity and natural gas networks, which is intended to finance programmes to promote efficient use of energy and to increase the use of renewable energy sources. Of course, the government has also stated in its proposal that the supplement to promote efficient use and renewable resources will not in fact be reflected in the increase in the price of kilowatt hours or supplies for another energy consumer and that the supplement will be credited to the special account of the RS Eco-Fund to be used for these investments in the field of energy efficiency. However, I would like, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, that the representatives of the government who are here with us today make it clear that the household cost will not increase, because we know that the promises of this government have already been "succeededed" and do not hold, they are written down and then they are forgotten. The Slovenian national party also objected to the fact that the Ministry of the Economy, aware that there are some open issues that cannot be resolved in this law, but that it has already been alerted, said the Minister, pointing out that new changes to the energy law have already been made and that it has not yet been adopted. This also indicates that, in fact, we have a quick return to the ad hoc draft of the law, because this is the result of a visit, and in fact the agreement that was made in the background dictated the matter. This is illogical because the changes are not already taken into account in this novel. In the Slovenian National Party, we will judge this law by our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you. I give the floor to Ambassador William Rezman to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. In our parliamentary group, we will also support this energy law as well as the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. It is notable, however, that we cannot simply overlook this, that the law is relatively new, that we have a proposal for amendments to this law, that this proposal weighs 44 articles and that we have accepted more than 40 amendments to it on the committee. But it was not enough, now we have a whole dozen amendments to this already amended law again, so it is probably justifiable to ask whether we have done this well enough, whether the solutions are really appropriate and whether there is no indication by the Minister that a new amendment of the law is already being prepared, including a forecast that we have not been sufficiently careful in amending this law. Maybe we are just following what the European Union is asking us to do, but, although with delay, we are implementing what we should have implemented a long time ago. It's a directive, then. It is irrelevant, for now, that all the principles and ambitions and all the things that the applicant seems to be able to resolve are listed in the proposal. Perhaps it is right, however, to focus primarily on two things: what is repeated all the time, namely the energy efficiency of buildings or buildings and the reliability of the supply of natural gas. Above all, because all of this together belongs to a broader complex that should be called conditional energy and has its flaws. It would certainly be difficult to say that we can be overly excited about this energy complex, especially because we have a rather modest balance between not saying a bad energy balance, that the structure in this energy balance, that is to say, the energy structure is not such that we should be over-excited, that we do not know how to treat energy cost-effective, that, at least so we estimate, a high entropy society at different ends, that the environmental suitability of energy production is also relatively poor, and that, of course, we, as Europe, are largely dependent on those who have energy surpluses. The EU, however, requires minimum standards for ensuring reliable supply, especially for those special customers who are the weakest and most easily affected, especially when there are major supply disruptions where there are potential unforeseen ones, the expected severe or excessively low temperatures or when there is an emergency demand for energy. All of this therefore also affects energy prices. And I'm sure we'll know that before that, he probably doesn't want to close his eyes. The world’s conditions are such that they indicate an increase, and we have no special influence here. The monopoly of the only primary supplier may also contribute to this. These 17 distributors cannot have a decisive impact on price reductions despite competition. However, something will also add this supplement to the network, which we support, because this is some contribution that is going in the right direction in the field of energy policy in Slovenia. We hope that in the future it will also be in such a way that [[End warning sign]] We will minimize environmental impacts, and we are therefore sorry that a proposal for one of Slovenia's major development projects has not been adopted by 2023, where we proposed an energy cluster of Drava, which has bypassed all these different segments, worth about 400 million tolars, was then broken down from the government, partly summarised and partially dispersed into some other parts, and thus integrated. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We're still going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24.10.2006. We have 11 articles open and just so many amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. None of the Members or representatives of the government signed up for the debate, so I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the following, paragraphs 15 and 11 of the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm asking you to sign up. Thanks for the applications. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u197	Just one question: I am interested in the government's position on these eleven amendments to one article alone. In particular, the explanation is that these are amendments by the ruling coalition groups, why it is necessary, in fact, to correct Article 15 with editorial amendments, if they are editorial amendments. I would ask if the government would explain it in substance, and then, of course, we can discuss it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for asking. But for your answer, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. You have the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you for the question, but I think that the proponent has to explain it, not the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u200	Let me explain again. All eleven amendments to Article 15 shall be proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I suggest you change your address, Comrade Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would not ask the government if the representatives of the proposer would explain their proposal, but because the leaders of the coalition groups do not see them, I wanted the government to explain it to us. So I'm changing the address book. Please, if the representatives of the proposer explain to us the substantive reasons for the amendments tabled, namely the 11 amendments to Article 15. Then, when this is explained, I will ask the government representative to be defined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the amendments of the ruling coalition. This I think is the minimum that the Slovenian public expects. It is an important and very long article that tells us what the methodology is, what individuals have to do on individual things and the article itself, if I am not mistaken, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven pages is a long article. Eleven amendments shall be added to the seven-page long Article. Before I am ready as a Member to support or reject this amendment, I want an argument from the motioners. If the government chooses to do so, then the government will continue to do so. Thank you very much. I changed the address book.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you for understanding. I must complement you, although we fully agree on the right of every Member, whether or not to cooperate. We can't take your request for a procedural proposal. However, I will once again open up room for debate and hope, just as you do, that one of you will talk about this large article and so many amendments. I'm opening an application procedure for discussion. We have four panellists. He will be the first to receive the word of Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, if we do not get an explanation for the 11 amendments to one article, which means that there is something very serious wrong with the article, I will simply not be able to support it, because I will consider that they were written simply because they did not have anything more smart to do at that time, given that none of the applicants have this will to come forward and explain what is going on in this article so unpleasant that it was necessary to amend it. Of course, I cannot support the idea that the government's position, what the government thinks of these 11 amendments, should be presented by one of the candidates. So I'm very interested in the government's position on the 11 amendments mentioned above. Does the government support these 11 amendments or does it not support them, why does it support them or which of these 11 does not support them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you. I give the floor to a representative of the government. Secretary of State, you signed up earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. As far as these amendments are concerned, the government accepts them because they are mostly editorial corrections and compliance with the legislative and legal services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr Rezman also joined the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I will only, by the way, although the Secretary of State has now responded to the fact that those, and I myself have not been a proponent and not a signatory to these amendments, those who wanted to read the arguments, we had this possibility, those who do not have time to read the justifications are not justified in insisting that others are explaining it to them again, could come to conclusions themselves. Those who have read have seen that it is mainly editorial corrections, that the word "issued" is replaced by "produced" to replace the "issuer" with "producer" to replace the "person" with "individual" etc. However, if there were any fundamental problem with any of these amendments, of course, those who are proposing would probably consider it necessary to further explain it. But that's not why I applied so much. I applied more to ask the government a question, because it is not clear to me and would be a welcome answer, but there is no other opportunity than to come forward with this article right now. I would like to know who will be the one in Slovenia that will ensure a stable supply of natural gas. Will it be the one who is at the primary level of the monopolies who have this option, or will it be those who, at the secondary level, 17 who distribute at the secondary level then to individual customers, whether this will be provided by both in some arrangement or by some scheme? This will probably also affect the price to be paid by the final consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased to have encouraged the government's side to explain its support for amendments that are editorial in nature. I don't think so. Let me explain. The first amendment to Article 15 says that the words "by public authority" are deleted, so the energy card - this is the content of this amendment - is no longer issued, but produced. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I suppose, knew what it had done on 18 July 2006, when it proposed in Article 2, and Article 15 relates to it, that one of the important issues is how to increase energy efficiency, including by very clearly defining what the energy efficiency of the building is, and that on this basis we also define the energy index of the building. That's what the right line says. And the government has proposed that this is a public charter with data on the energy efficiency of the building and recommendations to increase energy efficiency. The ruling coalition found that the government was here in legal error - many times it happens in Slovenia, that individuals are in legal error - and found that given the purpose of the energy card there is no need for these energy cards to be shown as public documents on the basis of public authority. This, of course, is followed by the contents of the 11 amendments to Article 15. So many people you say we haven't read. We've read it very carefully. My substantive question is to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Why did she consider the energy card to be a public document on 18 July, and now, in fact, it is not a government, but Members of the ruling coalition who do not even come to explain it are transforming the contents of this energy card into an optional paper? This is the key content of Articles 2 and 15 and the amendment to Article 15. So at least what I would like to ask the Secretary of State to withdraw the fact that it is editorial in nature. That's a long way from the newsroom. Whether something is a public document or something is not a public document, it is not an editorial. I would therefore like to ask for a substantive explanation of why the government considered the energy card to be a public document in July, and then it was two or three months, which has already changed its mind that it is not a public document. It would make sense for this to be explained to the Slovenian public what were the reasons why the government said so. Why do I ask that? Because, in the explanatory memorandum to Article 2, the government says something like this: this article amends Article 4 of the Energy Law which regulates the definition of terms, and most of the changes are due to the transposition of those Directives into the Slovenian legal order, which requires definitions of new concepts. Otherwise, shall I ask: Is the energy card defined as a public document or not within the framework of the European acquis? Since it is only in this way that one can then follow or be reasoned to follow clearly in the procedure in the National Assembly, the modified issue is that this energy card is no longer a public document. Here it is very interesting that we are then talking about even who or who is unable to issue energy cards and a report on the review of climate systems. It will be interesting to have a report on the review of climate systems in Slovenia - I suppose that is why those who already do climate will be best trained. We hear in various newspapers that there are some important Slovenian companies here, so I ask for a substantive argument, why you changed something that until yesterday was still a public document, into something that is no longer, or at the beginning when you initiated the matter, when you referred it to the procedure, you were aware and proposed a law that is minimally said, contrary to European law, if you had claimed it was a public document at the time, but now not anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you for your discussion, Comrade Squeakle. And I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Now I understand why there is no minister in this session. He just went on a trip to Russia, but today he doesn't want to come. Look, there are so many amendments to one article. This points to what I said earlier, that this law is very much ready in haste, "slappy" would say to the Slovenians, we have a nice term for it. It's irresponsible of the government to send this to the National Assembly. That is true, it is the amendments of the ruling coalition, or parties to the ruling coalitions, that alert the amendments to their own law. I also asked the government a question, and our voters, who also have to live with 100,000 and less per month, are wondering if this supplement to promote the efficient use of renewable energy to be determined by the government, with the total load of a kilowatt hour of electricity with additives essentially increasing whether this supplement will be imposed on households. I asked that question before, and no one assured me, no one gave me a clear answer. I would like to ask that we do not change, because if there is again a new incentive that will not have a significant impact on me, but someone who has a guaranteed personal income, essentially, then please say so now that we are adopting this law. I believe that this law is, in effect, necessary, but not to the detriment of those who live on the brink of possible survival. There's a lot of them. And we, who have slightly higher personal benefits, can easily forget, at least most of you forget what it's like to live with a work salary. Therefore, the distinguished representatives of the government, perhaps the Secretary of State, are preparing for a new more important job, and this is easily taken. I would ask you to answer this very clearly with assurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you, too, for your discussion. And I'm going to open a new procedure for applying to the debate. Here you go. We have four panellists. First, I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to answer some questions. As far as the supplement is concerned. Together with the law, the government has adopted a decision so that we have a government decision not to increase the total amount of allowances. And that's what we can guarantee. As far as security is concerned, this is, of course, on the final supplier. As for the incentives you asked for, for households, the analysis shows that due to the reliability of up to 1% for natural gas. As much as it concerns our work and the second part concerns the ILO, my colleague would explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. On this subject, or on the question raised by Mr Cvikl, I would say that after the government has introduced the law into the National Assembly, we have, in view of developments in other EU countries and on the basis of some comparisons, re-examined the need for this public charter as an energy card. Given that the number of issuers of these energy cards is large and given the nature of this Charter, it is appropriate that this Charter has the status of a certificate issued by legal persons authorised by the State. This is an area where up to 10 to 20,000 energy cards will be issued annually, depending on the dynamics of the issue of energy cards. This is a large number of so-called independent experts who will be employed in a large number of legal entities or individuals of independent entrepreneurs. That's why we moved from a public document to a certificate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you. We continue the debate. First of all, Member Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I assume that Mr Marko Starman, the authorised Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment and Space, has just spoken. But since Mrs State Secretary gave him the floor, I will not complicate it, because it was more important what Mr Selan said than what the rightful representative of the government could say, that is, Mr State Secretary. While I would expect the Secretary of State to summarise this content, of course it should be the audience's case. What I want to say in this matter to government representatives and representatives of the ruling coalition is that the key content is, however, that the Energy Efficiency Directive of the buildings of November 2002 should be adopted in its legal order by February of this year. We're in October 2006. It is still obvious that the government is separating the energy sector and the environment and has obvious problems because the State Secretary is unable to explain those parts that relate to the environmental component of energy efficiency, which is, of course, the most important in the matter. I would, of course, like to stress and say before the Slovenian public that, according to the law that will obviously be passed, we are in another reading today, somewhere in November, the minister has another year for sub-laws. Therefore, Slovenia's delay in taking over the Energy Efficiency Directive will be two years. I do not see how Slovenia will preside over the European Union in 2008 because it has chosen energy for one of these, but will itself be a country with one of the longest delays in implementing the Energy Efficiency Directive. However, I would like to explain more precisely than the political representative of the government why you decided that something that should be a public document and should be implemented in the public interest and should therefore also be used by the relevant institutions of the administrative authorities, because if it is a public document, it cannot be issued by anyone and should be issued in Slovenia by 700 000 because we have so much around buildings, it will not apply to all buildings, it is clear to me and I hope that it will not be for every single house, but we do have important facilities, activities is great and now because of some, if I understand, the reasons for rationality you say that it should be done by those who are authorized to do so. This is as they would say, we need to change our identity cards and have the identity cards issued by a so-called authorised private company. So we would like to emphasise - and I am pleased that we have come to a substantive debate here - you have decided to turn the public charter into a charter of private law, that this is just a confirmation. I would like to know how you will then achieve through this charter that the impact of this instrument will be to increase energy efficiency. In fact, if this was a public document and it included recommendations to increase energy efficiency, then this has a commitment. However, if this is just a simple certificate, which I do not know, someone who calculates the transition of the walls and does not know what else, then this is not a mandatory task, which, for example, would require the managers of residential buildings to increase energy efficiency and thus contribute to reducing energy loss. However, I would like the following clarification: what is the situation in individual countries of the European Union, how many countries use this as a public charter and what efforts each country makes to increase the energy efficiency of buildings - since Slovenia said that energy will be an important part of the Presidency in 2008, and this is one way to reduce the European Union's dependence on energy that we do not have.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Madam President. One step at a time, with little cooperation from the applicants, we have only found that all 11 amendments are not editorial, but also content. If something is still a public document in July, and today it is no longer, then it is not an editorial correction. Speculation about how much time someone has to read and what not to read is, given the duality of this government, and in view of such poor explanations as are written in these amendments, which they themselves call for after additional explanations, you need to understand - with such poor explanations as you write to government parties in their amendments, simply some things cannot be explained. And that's why we sometimes require further explanation, not because we wouldn't read the amendments. And, you see, we were right again - according to your belief, editorial amendments become substantive when we start talking about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u220	Of course, it is Parliament to discuss it, and this is welcome. However, it would be wise to discuss it rationally and not because of the performance. Since I was the one who initially spoke or wondered whether so many amendments were really needed or could not have been reconsidered earlier, I should say less of an amendment, because it was said that viewers should judge on this article 15 and 11 amendments, what is this article 15 and these 11 amendments. This Article 15 is an article which is five and a half pages long and which introduces a whole series of new articles. And to such an extensive, densely written article, it is not difficult to find mainly editorial amendments. And whoever reads this is clear to them. Clearly, it is not only those who abuse it or who want to embarrass a representative or a representative of the government in any way. I'm not their lawyer, I just don't think this is appropriate in Parliament. Secondly, what I think is more important is the question I would like to ask the government representatives once again, because it has been answered that the secondary supplier will be the one who will have to provide safe or stable care, that is, the question of how it will do so. Because it depends, however, on the primary supplier, on the one we have monopolies, because he is alone, how he will respond to this request. Or by purchasing additional amounts of space for supplies abroad, or perhaps this will cause us to have large discussions again on whether new gas storage terminals are needed anywhere near us, either on land or at sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you. We're opening a new application circuit. Members and representatives of the government are asked to apply for a debate if they wish to discuss it. For the government, given that I have noticed that you have no practice in our reporting system, this is with a raise of hands and for other Members on the button. Commence application. We have three names on the list for debate by Members and a representative of the government. Please. Mrs. Starina Kosem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The answer to the gentleman who asked how he would do that? Of course, it will be by entering into intermittent contracts with the greenhouses and industry. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would point out once again that they are in line with the ZPS and that they are mainly editorial. However, what is content also applies to harmonisation. However, as far as the public charter is concerned, it must be said that this is in accordance with the Directive and the legislation in force. But everything else I think we've already answered, and we wouldn't have said it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u224	I have to pick up again. See, the desire to chair the energy issue in 2008 is clearly expressed by the Republic of Slovenia and also by some who are supposed to represent the opposition's opinion, they do not know that the Minister himself wrote that he is aware that there are some open issues that cannot be resolved in this bill. That's what he wrote, listen. The Minister drew attention to the preparation of new amendments to the energy law already planned and which are also the result of amendments to the European Union directives. However, a few solutions may be added to the consideration of this bill's proposal at the meeting, which has not happened either. Please, who do you think we are here for? Perhaps what the finance minister said earlier is that we are all spiders here, formerly president, to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavlich. Does the rest of the government feel that way? What you have done is a simple victory, quickly prepared and sent to the National Assembly and nothing else. It would be wise, Prime Minister, to withdraw this from the procedure and to take up ashes and say, we will prepare something better, more comprehensive and, of course, for the general public, citizens and citizens more acceptable, which in the end will not be warm in the pocket. I don't believe today that this law will have an impact on the cost of the household, I simply don't believe you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you, for your word. Your Honor, I'm afraid that your esteemed colleague Rezman has hit the point, and everything else we're talking about is an editorial, but it's not an editorial. That's irrelevant. With regard to energy supply, this is totally irrelevant twice as much. What matters is where we supply the energy. Unfortunately, we do not have oil fields in Slovenia, we do not have gas poles, and we do not have gas tanks so that in winter we can have a gas reserve, and we will probably be able to talk about it. And that's what I think my colleague Rezman meant. Yeah, we'll talk about whether we need to build some tanks, and we'll probably all be smart, and we'll talk about how terrible that would be. Now to the essentials. The reliability of supply is, of course, monopolized in natural gas once. We only have distributors. The main supplier is Russian gas. I don't know, Gasprom. Probably, I think it is, otherwise it doesn't bother me. But since you've also talked about security, care, it's likely that if we had a two-way supply, it would probably be safer, I don't know. If it's on two sides, then it's on one side 2%, on the other side it's more. I'm there now, what I was going to say. But now we're in that debate six months ago when we talked about gas terminals, of course I don't support them to understand each other. But, gentlemen, because the Italians aren't stupid enough to go and force themselves into an accident, and they're preparing themselves, and I don't know what kind of trouble they're looking at, but they're looking at supply dispersions. That's an essential question. I don't mind the monopoly, but if we've come up with questions about various editorial matters, whether they're editorials or not, when we've made substantive problems out of editorial problems, we've been working from editorial problems to Ph.D., and of course we're also talking about these things, if it's not different, we're also insulting certain people if we don't know otherwise. But the point is somewhere else. The essence of energy supply is the suppliers and the reliability of this supply. Everything else that we're talking about here, we can make the perfect content, and we can put the perfect comma, the dots, and we can answer all the questions, whether we're going to issue a document in a green card or in a red card or in a blue card, and if we have an administrative unit stamp on it, it's all irrelevant. It's the third league. The point is, if we have the energy supply and how we will have and what is the reliability. This is now the only and only fundamental issue that has become increasingly important. And if we answer that, then it's all about whether we call this document a substantive matter or an editorial really irrelevant. Of course it is, but we can be important here, and we are also discussing and making a high policy out of it. Of course, I don't mind asking these questions, because that's why it's a Parliament. We're all probably united here. But talking about the importance of these matters, forgetting the true content, and that's what I wanted to point out. Perhaps we will recall that debate six months ago when we were talking about gas terminals again in this energy supply. But I'm sure, just like things show, we'll go back to that many more times. But what will result from this is that I would not like to discuss this, because there is not even a subject today, but it certainly does relate in any way, and without it I do not think there can be any serious debate at all. But all I wanted to say was that we got lost here in the little bit about the global problem, that's supply and reliability, the supply of energy, and maybe we forgot that, and maybe we've even forgotten about it, and maybe we've been looking at each other in an unnecessary way, and it's a Parliament and a debate. That doesn't mean that when we go out, then we don't do things better with each other, but that's the way things are. The main simple problem is the reliability of energy supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you, too. Allow me, Comrade Petan, but leave the right to every Member to decide what is important to him and what is not. We continue the debate. There's a member of Parliament, Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u228	I must say, Mr. Petan, I didn't understand anything. The main issue that we are discussing is the change to a common charter. And my question to the government is: What about the recommendations in the energy card? Do house managers have to fill them in when this is no longer a public document or not? Because this is how we reduce energy dependence.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you. Given that the wishes for the application are, I will reopen the procedure for the application to the debate. We have been notified a government representative and three Members. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you. As far as energy cards are concerned, this is only information on the energy efficiency of buildings. I would also like answers to Mr. Friend. Yes, we have already announced a recast of this law because we are following the European directives. Obviously, we will have to find that the amendment or adoption of these Directives and the amendment of legislation is a very tumultuous matter. We implemented it. There's a new one in the back. And you want-you don't want us to do this, and that's why we can't escape changing the law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you. We continue the debate on the basis of the applications. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u232	One sentence. On 18 July, the government considered that the energy card was a public document, and now you are changing that. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you for asking, sentence. The word is "Bostian Zagorac."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thanks again for saying that. Mr. President-in-Office. I am very glad that there are still the last Mohicans or devil’s lawyers in this room. But if the opposition hadn't warned, we wouldn't be talking about content. At first it was waved with a hand, czech, it's an editorial. On our initiative, we have begun to talk about the content that is so important to you. And if you hadn't answered, you wouldn't have stopped by and explained this content to us. But I think it's very important that we talk about content, even as you yourself have found out. They are important reservoirs, and they would not talk about them if they did not encourage me to discuss the content and reliability of supply. We wouldn't talk about her either. For you, it's an editorial. 11 amendments is an editorial. For us, it's content. And there's so much about security of supply. It is very important whether someone is responsible for this reliability or not. This is also an important content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you. And Paul Gantar entered into the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am also interested in this answer to this question raised by my colleague Squeakl. However, I would add that, of course, the law will not in itself contribute to the security of energy supply. If that were the case, we would, of course, adopt an even more extensive marriage and have even more reliable care. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. However, I would like to add that it is right not to mix apples and pears. The gas terminals we talked about are, of course, terminals that are supposed to turn liquefied natural gas into a gas state and use it for fuel, and here it is in the terminals that my colleague, Comrade Petan, talked about, but of course it is about oil gas, and the order of size and one and the other terminals is, if the oil gas in the Gulf of Market is about 4 billion cubic metres, then these terminals are, I think, these reservoirs are about 30,000 cubic metres, cubic meters. And of course it's an enormous difference, both in fuel, both in substrate and of course in size. However, as far as reliability is concerned, I tell you very frankly and very directly, but I am prepared to trade the full liberalisation of the gas market for stable and long-term contracts with Gasprom, suppliers from Algeria or perhaps elsewhere. What you'd say would be a monopolistic base. Liberalisation of this market will bring us reliable higher prices and greater problems. As it appears now in Europe and in us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you. Since I no longer see the desire for a debate, I also conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 20.25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE NOTARIATE LAW. We have an estimated 45 minutes for the joint debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Robert Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The reasons for the proposed changes are the experience and findings of the practice of notariat, which have shown that it is necessary to bring the objectives of legal certainty and the burden of the court into line with the Notariat Act in part and to supplement it. The proposed amendments and additions to the Notariat Act aim to achieve the following objectives. First time. By extending the competence of notaries to relieve the courts. Another time. By establishing that the revenue of notaries is public, increase public control. Third time. With provisions on electronic commerce, increase the efficiency of notary operations. And the fourth time. Amendments to the disciplinary procedure, the disciplinary authorities and their powers and the setting of deadlines for the execution of individual actions shall enable a more effective identification of the responsibilities of notaries. If we are now going to the essence of the proposed changes, the first essence, the unloading of the courts. The interiors will be able to carry out all forms of alternative dispute resolution, i.e. all those who are not or will not be detained by law by any of the state authorities. All forms of alternative dispute resolution are dictated to achieve the openness of the notariat also in order to resolve disputes outside the courts, all with a view to reducing the case for working courts and thus contributing to the resolution of judicial backlogs. The notary may also be appointed as the guardian of the legacy by a court decision. Another time. The Supreme Court will only participate in disciplinary proceedings at the third stage, but only in the event that the notary is given a disciplinary measure to terminate the performance of the notariat and to exclude the President of the Disciplinary Commission from the second stage. Then the work of notaries will be more effective due to electronic commerce, which can in principle be faster than classical and due to the duty of notaries to obtain data or evidence on official records. Furthermore, the powers of the Minister of Justice in adopting the tariff of notaries, in determining the minimum amount of insurance, in appointing notaries to the free place of notary and in disciplinary procedures will be increased, all of which will allow greater control over the operation of notaries and their authorities. Furthermore, the powers of the authorities of the Notary Chamber will change, with more options for giving opinions within 30 days and less effective decision-making, which, in the light of experience in the past, will significantly increase the responsibility of notaries and its associated legal security of the parties. And one last change. The selection procedure for candidates to be appointed to a vacant place shall be simplified. The selection procedure shall be carried out by checking the professional competence of the dossier submitted and by means of a written examination of competence or oral interview. This amendment no longer requires the application of methods of exclusion under the applicable legislation which has prolonged these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u240	Nice greetings, presidents, greetings also to representatives of the Ministry of Justice and to colleagues and fellow Members! At its 25th regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Notariat Act. In an additional introductory explanation of the articles in the context of the second reading of the proposal, the representative of the proposer, Dr Lovro Šturm, stressed that the proposal for a law was part of the Ministry of Justice's efforts to improve the work of the courts and to reduce judicial backlogs. The key reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to the Notariat Act stem from the experience and findings of the practice of notariat. By extending the powers of notaries, they want to relieve the courts. By establishing that the revenue of notaries is public, however, to a certain extent increase public control. The provisions on e-commerce aim to increase the efficiency of notary operations. However, changes in disciplinary procedures, disciplinary authorities and their competences, and the setting of deadlines for the elimination of individual acts, allow for a more effective identification of the responsibility of notaries. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly presented its opinion. The proposal examined compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, among other things, considered that the law contained a rather open definition of "alternative dispute resolution". It also noted that the extension of the competence of notaries to carry out individual forms of alternative dispute resolution was questionable in terms of its specificity. The Ministry of Justice, which explained most of the concerns raised, specifically stressed that the purpose of the proposed regulation is to ensure that notaries carry out all forms of alternative dispute resolution, at least those which are not or will not be detained by law in any of the national authorities irrespective of designation. The aim is also to achieve the contribution and openness of the notary to the resolution of disputes outside the court, to reduce the membership of the case and to contribute to the resolution of judicial backlogs. Representatives of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia also took part in the meeting and presented comments and proposals based on the introduction of the proposed report and the basic objectives of the amendment of the law itself. In the context of the hearing and the discussion on individual articles, it was proposed by the opposition Members and representatives of the Notary Chamber that the existing arrangements should not be amended, as this would, in their view, reduce the role of the Notary Chamber in the appointment of notaries to a notary post in the conclusion of the relevant insurance contracts for damage to which it is responsible to the parties and in the determination of the minimum insurance sum. On the other hand, the majority opinion, as well as the opinion of the coalition Members, was that the amendment was necessary, but in particular that it was stressed that the proposed amendments and additions to the law sought to achieve, in addition to the decommissioning of the courts and the greater efficiency of the work of the notaries, the greater responsibility of the notaries and thus the greater legal security of the parties in the process, and therefore the increased competence of the Ministry in the disciplinary responsibility procedures and the adoption of the minimum insurance sum tariff. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 22 and 26. However, it did not accept the amendments to Articles 7, 10, 19, 27 and 1. Finally, he also adopted all the remaining articles of the law together and proposes them to this assembly for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u241	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member of Dara Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Amendments to the Notariat Act are proposed for most purposes to relieve the courts and ensure greater legal certainty. This is what the proposer says and, in some cases, he does. At the LDS, however, we believe that the change of law the minister wants mainly for the purpose of subjugating the Notary Chamber. With the amendment of the law, the Notary Chamber loses all power to determine notary tariffs and to propose new notaries and assistants, which can be interpreted as centralisation of power by the Ministry or the Minister of Justice. We have proposed several amendments to the LDS Club in the course of its consideration of the draft law on the home working body, which would maintain the current arrangements for the appointment of notaries, the setting of notary tariffs and the setting of minimum insurance sums, because we believe that the powers of the Minister of Justice have been large enough so far, since the Notary Chamber has always had to obtain its consent. Moreover, if the Notary Chamber did not agree with the proposal for amendments to the Notary Tariffs, the Government itself had the last word. The amendments we have proposed have not received support, which we understand in the LDS House of Members as the desire of the Minister of Justice to take the lead in taking over the main levers for the operation of the Chamber of State and the Notariat in their entirety and in this way fully subordinates them. If we adopt the proposed arrangement, we will support the evaluation of the Notary Chamber, which is also competent under the Notariat Act to represent the interests of notaries, notary assistants and notary trainees, and to take care of the reputation, credibility and development of the Notariat. We will therefore take the responsibility of the Notary Chamber, which raises the fundamental question of why and why the Notary Chamber is needed at all. At the same time, the law still stipulates that notaries are obliged to unite in the Notary Chamber. In the Notary Chamber, which, following the proposed amendment, lacks important tools and mechanisms for effective substantive action and influence. For example, in Article 1 of the bill, the applicant also stated that the revenue of notaries was public. It is true that notariat is a public service, but notaries are not persons of public law. They're doing their job free. What's the public's interest in pay being made public? Notaries shall not be bound by the law on access to information of a public nature. The tariffs that notaries charge for a particular business are public anyway. I'm sure this is about the populism position of the ministry and the minister. It is unacceptable, however, that because of some of the exceptional cases, changes are made from the wrong starting points. The increased powers of the Minister of Justice in the appointment of the Second Level Disciplinary Commission are unacceptable to the LDS. The Second Level Disciplinary Commission is to be composed of a President and two members, with the Minister appointing the President and one member on his own. Would it not be even more simple and rational to decide on complaints against decisions of the First Level Disciplinary Commission? No, such amendments to the Notariat Act, Members of the LDS cannot be supported. We can't agree to most of the explanations that we have already heard on the parental committee, if this is a matter of public service and therefore the proposed changes in this respect are logical. The Constitution stipulates that notariat is a public service. This does not mean, of course, that it is the Ministry of Justice or government service. It is precisely from the constitutional definition that the public service "sui generis", which is also subject to adequate autonomy and independence. It is also a principle of trust by the parties. All of this, however, the proposaler looks at and degrades the notaries more and more into a public servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u244	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! The current minister cannot be denied unemployment. In the area of justice, where notariat is also included in the broader sense, it proposes constantly new amendments to the rules which it is intended to contribute to the greater efficiency of this branch of government. Will all predictions really be successful, it'll tell time. We would like it to be, as the general situation in this branch of government is not the best, and even more than objectively, it is negatively assessed by the public. That is why it is difficult to object to the Ministry's proposal many times, and even when we have strong arguments, our objections are not particularly heard. In the field of justice, many institutions, such as lawyers, notariat, the judiciary, the judiciary, the bar and notary, universities and the like, operate more organised and connected than in many other areas. And in this case, we, Members and Members, can be relatively difficult when we have joint coordinated proposals and much more difficult when the opinions of the sections differ significantly from that of the Minister. The Notary Chamber of Slovenia, in which all notaries are required by law and which is responsible for the reputation, credibility and development of the notariat, has numerous questions and comments, partly of an expert nature, and in particular of a conceptual nature, following the law. In particular, in the work where amendments and additions to the law propose extending the competence of notaries and decommissioning of courts, which should contribute to the abolition of judicial backlogs, which we all support. We believe, however, that the Ministry could show more readiness to clarify and harmonise professional questions and formulations and that there would be no distinction or confusion in this regard. Some of them were also pointed out by our legislative and legal service. What is more important is that part of the comments that point out that the Ministry's proposals make a significant change in the position of notariat, which takes little account of the fact that notariat is not only a public service, but also a free profession, which gives notaries and their chamber certain powers and a role that is not meaningfully eliminated by an ever-increasing subordination to the Minister and the executive branch of power. With regard to these issues, we believe that many of the solutions proposed are unnecessary and can also be assessed as a reflection of the administrative concerns to be subordinated to the competences of the Chamber to the Ministry and to the executive branch of the Authority. It is the elimination of the role of the Chamber in the appointment of notaries, the smaller role of the Chamber in the decision-making on notary tariffs and the public income of notaries, the reduction of their role in disciplinary proceedings and the inclusion of them. It is correct to point out in this respect that the powers of the Minister on all these matters have been established so far and that the Executive Branch of the Authority has had a significant impact on decisions taken by the Notary Chamber in some cases. For example, about the tariff, she even had the last word. We are therefore of the opinion that all the government's proposals on these issues are not sufficiently measured and that the government may also be in possession of populism and may be relieved of certain decisions without the need to put out a notary chamber. Perhaps he does not realize that the accumulation of power increases his responsibility. So whatever else is going to happen in the framework of the Notariat, the government will be responsible for this on its own. That's something we'd like to pay special attention to. This would suggest reconsidering, as it is worth stopping the overall trend of a continuous increase in the role of power in the field of justice as well. Not because such concentration necessarily leads to greater efficiency, but because it can also be disputed in terms of the principle of the division of power and the consolidation of the democratic nature of our society. Because of this proposal, we will not support the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will give a position on the delegation of Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Again a very nice greeting to Minister Sturm. The notary serves as a public service to draw up public and private documents, and we therefore expect it to provide legal certainty in the conclusion of contracts and other legal matters, as well as impartial and objective advice in this regard. Notariat is a public service in Slovenia. Notariat is divided into some less than 70 Notary cities, which are divided into county courts and population density. And precisely because a notariat is a public service, it must have some obligations, some additional obligations compared to others, such as economic services. The proposed amendments to the law go in this direction. The Ministry of Justice is also working towards reducing judicial backlogs and decommissioning of courts. Amendments to the law to notaries, on the one hand, provide additional tasks, which also benefit our citizens, as notaries will also be able to carry out all forms of alternative dispute resolution. This is simplified in terms of negotiation, mediation and arbitration, which will undoubtedly relieve the courts, facilitate the procedures, as we say to citizens and citizens, and the process itself to a certain extent of valuation, and in particular have an economic impact on time. He will also be able to carry out his duties as head of the estate and will be the executor of the will and will also verify signatures on the land permit. In view of the nature of the notariat as a public service, this has in particular been demonstrated by the practice that controls are thus improving in particular the direction of increased control by the public, through the possibility of looking at the financial operations of notaries. It is not the purpose of the law that notaries should report on their income, but that their business is transparent, since they do, as the public service is said to be. This will also make it easier to determine, for example, the appropriateness, the dispersion of notaries and notary cities, and in particular that the Government or the competent authority may also monitor the appropriateness of the level of the notary tariff, as well as the correctness of the accounting, and in this regard also necessary after the revision of the notary tariffs. The practice has also shown that there is a need to change and strengthen responsibility. The amendment of the law exacerbates compensation and disciplinary responsibility. It also provides that the minimum insurance sum will be determined by the Ministry. The disciplinary procedure shall be simplified in such a way that the Supreme Court shall decide only on complaints against decisions of the second-degree disciplinary commission by which the notary has been given the right to notariat. In Nova Slovenije we estimate that it is not true that the Notary Chamber loses all powers. The Notary Chamber will have fewer decision-making powers and its powers of opinion will be increased. Above all, this change is in the direction of ensuring greater responsibility for notaries themselves. The proposal is therefore designed in the direction of greater efficiency of notaries. However, it will certainly be necessary to complement some other articles in the future, particularly the introduction of changes that will take place to decommission the courts and, consequently, can also increase the scope of services and the competence of notaries. As we estimate that changes in the law in a positive direction, especially in relation to more up-to-date notary services, as well as to improving the safety of citizens and citizens in New Slovenia, we support the changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you. Ambassador Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The most recent amendment to the Notariat Act since the end of 2005 followed in particular the objective of increasing legal certainty. This was particularly the result of the real estate revenues that took place last year. The novelty that we are considering today, as one of the objectives, is also followed by a further increase in legal certainty. The amendment of the Notariat Act extends the powers of notaries with a view to further burdening the courts. Thus, it is only one of the many laws that we have recently adopted with the aim of reducing judicial backlogs in courts. In addition, the law increases public control over the work of notaries as it is stipulated that the revenue of notaries is public. This is a relatively sensitive provision. However, we are sure that this is more than necessary. However, notaries as persons of public confidence should not, in principle, have major problems with this provision. We believe that their work is based on legal principles. Intners will be able to perform certain new tasks in accordance with the amendment under consideration. In particular, alternative dispute resolution in notaries is important. In itself, alternative dispute resolution is more effective than judicial proceedings. However, the resolution of disputes against notaries must have added value to the trust of notaries. The proposed law further regulates the electronic commerce of notaries. Electronic commerce has become quite common today. The appropriate regulation of electronic documents is therefore necessary for notaries. This will, on the one hand, allow greater efficiency in the work of notaries, while at the same time allowing customers to make easier use of certain notary services. The proposed amendment reduces certain competences of the Notary Chamber. However, the role of the Minister or the Ministry of Justice is increasing. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed solutions, which increase the role of the Minister in particular in disciplinary procedures and tariff adoption, do not mean reducing the independence of notaries or the Notary Chamber, but rather improve the control and legal security of the parties. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act brings positive movements and we will support the law for this reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you. Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Your Honors are here! If we had a package of tax laws yesterday and today, then we now have in the next three points a package of laws that are supposed to reduce judicial backlogs or are part of the Ministry of Justice's intensive efforts to make the courts work more efficiently and to reduce judicial backlogs and burden the courts. I don't know what kind of experiment it is in this term, but no attempt seems to depend. If the former government, when it touched the resolution of the judicial deficits, spent a great deal of money on its failure, for the judicial backlogs are still growing at an enormous rate, then the government from the session is wasting time. And if we stick to the fact that time is money, then I don't see a significant difference in this area between the previous government and this government. The only common denominator for both governments is the total failure to reduce judicial backlogs. As far as the Notariat Act is concerned, I must say that this law will increase the powers of the Minister of Justice, who has already announced war on notaries at the beginning of his term. It is our belief that it is becoming a purely ordinary public servant who will serve and follow the ideology of the government. I don't know, I can't imagine how this law will reduce judicial backlogs and ensure, I'll say, greater efficiency of the courts. I think it is high time for one government to finally accept the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, and to see that the only solution is to reduce the judicial backlog of a permanent judicial mandate. And we're gonna fuck up both the money and the time. There was a lot of talk in the marriage and in all the presentations I had before me about the Notary Chamber. In so far as the government has decided, I will say, to abolish mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, I propose to consider and take a step further and do the same in the Chamber of Notaries. This may also contribute to judicial backlogs, since there are two more laws that we have changed several times. And it is likely that the law, I don't know, will help reduce the backlog of the law, in principle, as this government has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you. Ambassador Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The Notariat Act is not such a parallel less important law. At least it seems to us in the DeSUS Group that these are important things, important ambitions. The second is whether all these ambitions will really be realized or not. If we just look at whose interests, whose rights, whose status, whose position, whose social role, and so on, we will see that these are important actors themselves. I'm sure notaries and notary chambers aren't something you could swing your left hand through. Surely these are very important institutions, which very often also decide on the benefits to protect them, sometimes more, but sometimes less successful or even unsuccessful. Surely it is not possible to wave over the ambitions that what everyone would like to see in the courts is to be less overwhelmed by cases that cannot be managed in order to be more effective and to reduce judicial backlogs. Which does not mean that this is the last one, which is important, I will also mention us notary parties, who are just as important in this process. Because it's about our interests, protecting our rights, protecting the legal business in which we enter for professional counseling and so on. In short, we are dealing with some very important area in which we enter every day. And we could say that events in recent years have shown that there are no reasons to be over-satisfied with notaries in general, not with the Notary Chamber, not with the work of the courts, not with the legal certainty of us who are parties to these different proceedings. That's how the government assessed it. In the Group of Members, we believe that it assessed correctly. The Ministry, that is, like that part of the government that prepared this professionally. We'll back it up. We support the transfer of authority. The powers shall be transferred to all ends, not only in one direction. Notaries also get new powers, new business opportunities. They also gain business and also receive adequate responsibility for what they do. Alternative dispute resolution, legacy procedures, desert management. It's not so insignificant to say that this is something for notaries that would be like a fly day. So they get important powers. Why not get the authority of someone else who has the ambition to make sure that ungenerized but many bad events from the past, negative events, many abuses and mistakes do not happen again? Why not try what we are not most pleased with, adding some attempt to make things right? Whether these measures, which are proposed or whether this law will surely succeed or not, will be overestimated now. But we consider the direction to be appropriate. More legal certainty for all of us who are parties is unlikely to harm. Probably not much more control. The Ministry doesn't take the right to determine whether they work by law or not. This will also be found in future others. Is there a need for a more friendly environment for customers, for those who will be facilitated by procedures that will be facilitated by electronic commerce? I guess we can say yes to that. It will probably be very good if, at least in part, this contributes to reducing backlogs in the courts. And because we in the DeSUS Group estimate that these powers or redirections of these powers are appropriate because we estimate that backlogs to this account can be reduced in the courts. As we estimate that greater legal certainty can also be our customers, we support the law. However, we will not support that part of the amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which wants to preserve the existing rights of notaries and of the Notary Chamber, because we believe that it is also a matter of strength and need to be cut down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Notariat Act, as the implementation of this law will, to a certain extent, burden the work of the courts, as notaries will gain new powers. This will also have an indirect impact on the abolition of judicial backlogs, which are one of the biggest problems of the Slovenian judicial system. We are pleased that Minister Sturm is investing a great deal of energy in the abolition of judicial arrears, and in this regard he is preparing amendments to the various laws that are pursuing this objective. Some laws have already been adopted in this national assembly, some are already ready and waiting for consideration. Finally, these efforts already show some progress, some progress. Therefore, it seems to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that there are no indications that there are no changes. Amendments to the Notariat Act, which is now on the agenda and under consideration, are also intended, inter alia, for this purpose of reducing or eliminating judicial backlogs. We also welcome the provisions with which notary revenues will be public, which will be a step towards greater public control over the work of notaries. In the past, notary supervision has been quite flawed, which is probably also the reason for some errors, the consequences of which have been very severe and difficult. The proposed legislative changes also ensure greater efficiency in the business of notaries, which will in particular be made possible by access to customer data and by the broad enforcement of electronic commerce. Notary service is a public service and therefore the responsibility of notaries who perform this service must be sufficiently ensured. In this area, too, there has been a lack of responsibility in the past, leading indirectly to many things that have led to superficiality and mistakes. Let us only recall some cases of Odessa credit contracts which, as such, should be detected by notaries and noted by the parties to inappropriate and harmful provisions. And not just in the case of Orion, who was the most reflective. Thus, their lack of attention, if not worse, has brought some borrowers to the brink of survival. It is therefore necessary to correct and amend the current provisions of the Notariat Act concerning the disciplinary procedure against notaries, as well as the provisions concerning disciplinary authorities and their powers. These changes will make it possible to better assess the responsibility of notaries, both disciplinaryly and indemnity, and in this case also to take appropriate action. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party note that the role of the Notary Chamber with the new law is changing to a certain extent and its powers are falling, but not significantly, since in all areas it still retains the right to its opinion or proposal. Therefore, I must also reject the findings of a fellow member of the opposition party in order to abolish all powers, which is a complete misappropriation of the public and absolutely does not. In this way and since the law also lays down the time limits for individual actions, procedures for the appointment of new notaries will be more rapid or will not be allowed to delay procedures as far as possible with regard to the setting of notary tariffs and other procedures, where a notary chamber may also be involved. Although I'm not saying that this has happened regularly. This will increase the responsibility of individual notaries. It will also increase the legal certainty of the parties. This is what is most important and why it is necessary to amend or supplement the law, as proposed. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will therefore support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Notariat Act. And we are confident that this will also be an important contribution to remedying judicial backlogs. And we also want the judicial system to put within itself perhaps more energy in that it will also seek within itself to have judicial backlogs eliminated in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CROSS LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences has a threefold purpose. First, to relieve the police as the biggest criminal authority. In addition, simplify certain administrative procedures where information on predictability for offences is to be provided. Finally, unload the courts and speed up the decision in a regular trial. Let us briefly consider all three purposes. First, we need to unload the police. In view of the need to simplify police conduct as the largest criminal authority, it is proposed to introduce a payment order in specific cases, only for infringements of a particular group of laws. These are laws on the protection of public order and peace, on foreigners, on the control of cross-border crossings, on road safety and on public collection rules. Taking into account the conditions for issuing a special payment order, this form of decision is a very similar situation as in the case of issuing a decision on the offence, but the difference is that such payment order may be issued by an authorised official of the criminal authority. He's a police officer or a county clerk. It shall be required to have at least a V level of education. The decision may be issued only by a person with a minimum of VII. level of education. In view of the greater efficiency of the rapid procedure, we also propose the introduction of a half-rate fine imposed by an offence decision following the model of the arrangement of the half-rate of the fine imposed by the payment order. It is foreseen that a half payment is possible only if a request for judicial protection is not filed. In the event that the offender pays half the fine and submits a request for judicial protection within a period of time, he is obliged to pay the remaining half of the fine imposed if the request fails. In the applicant's view, the offender has more than one possibility of deciding on further procedural actions, one of which, after the present regulation, is only possible to request judicial protection or to pay the fine. On the other hand, this should also prevent cases of misuse of procedural rights in order to delay procedures and avoid refoulement and forcible recovery. The envisaged possibility of half-payment of the fine in the decision is intended to increase the effectiveness of enforcement and a smaller number of procedures for removal and recovery. The next is the unloading of the courts. In order to relieve the courts of infringement of the rules on the establishment and parking of road vehicles, it is also proposed to initiate an opposition procedure when a payment order has been issued. These are offences which, according to the decisions of the Road Traffic Safety Act, are within the jurisdiction of the municipal editors and are, by their very nature, bountiful. Therefore, the government considered it appropriate to introduce the contract procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. Please, Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you, President. At its 25th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences. The representative of the applicant fully explained why changes were needed and stressed that the amendments and additions to the law were intended to achieve three objectives, namely, the deploration of the police as the largest criminal authority, the simplification of certain administrative procedures where information on the predictability of offences should be provided, and the decommissioning of the courts and the acceleration of the decision in the ordinary trial, and the three objectives set out below, as just as explained by Minister Šturm. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service who participated in the meeting of the Committee explained that the opinion focused primarily on the provisions of Article 4 or on the proposed new 57a. Articles 57b and 57b. Article which provides for the introduction of a specific payment order for infringements of certain rules or for the introduction of a special opposition procedure. It considered that the comments made by the legislative and legal services were adequately summarised in the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, while the amendment of the Committee was tabled in this regard and also in relation to the opinion of the legislative and legal service. The Committee thus voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u259	Thank you. Following the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you very much. In this case, too, the Minister's efforts to respond to perceived shortcomings in the transcripts with the aim of speeding up the resolution of all proceedings before the Court and also to remedy the backlogs. Unlike the Notariat Act, where we considered that the direction of all proposed amendments was not appropriate, this time we adopt and support the directions and objectives of the proposed amendments and amendments to the Offences Act. While the offence legislation is often changing, everything is aimed at reducing the number of pending cases in this area. The decision on abolition also contributed to the reduction, I think it was about. 90,000 such cases in 2005. Unfortunately, this measure was still insufficient and the number of violations continued to increase. It has now been explained by the Minister, and also by the President of our Committee, where the basic objectives are and how to reduce or simplify the process and increase efficiency in particular. We agree that this is true, which is the case with the different powers of the criminal authorities, especially the police, that in some cases when a payment order for offences is introduced, it should also give the authority to the official persons of the criminal authority, that is to say to the police officer and to the municipal editor for making these decisions. We agree that in the event of payment of half the fine, the possibility of the simultaneous exercise of this right and the simultaneous appeal procedure is excluded, since they would then not contribute to any rationalisation. We also support the proposal of a new institute of minor misconduct, which gives the powers of the criminal authorities not to conduct the whole process when it is not necessary. We expect that further steps will be taken by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the Offences Act, to say that further steps will be taken to decompress the courts and speed up the decision-making process in regular court proceedings, and in anticipation of meeting these objectives, we will support proposals for amendments and the completion of the Offences Act in our Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u261	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u262	With regard to the purpose of amending and supplementing the law on offences, we are somehow extending this trend towards the abolition of arrears and the acceleration of individual proceedings from the judicial branch of authority to the executive or specific police, in particular with regard to certain procedures introduced by this amendment, particularly with regard to faster procedures and the rules of jurisdiction between the police and the judicial branch of detention. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the changes that the proposed amendment sets out in relation to the records provided by those authorities that keep these records: for offences - criminal authorities, and for crimes the Ministry of Justice. As a positive assessment, we also assess the change that data can be obtained by means of an electronic role. This, in particular, aims to simplify administrative procedures by taking account of the principle of economics and, above all, by processing data where it is produced. We also support the fact that, in the context of simplifying the functioning of the police as the largest criminal authority, it will also issue specific forms of payment order. In the event of violations of the law on the protection of public order and peace, the law on foreigners, the law on State border control and the law on road traffic protection. Nevertheless, despite the tendency to pursue an efficient and economic process, this will not affect the content of the procedure alone, the payment order will, of course, have to contain all the essential elements: a description of the actual situation, a summary of the statement of the offender and the witnesses and the findings of the official who conducted the procedure. As it is said, a payment order can be issued by a police officer. We also support the amendments introduced by the amendment to the regulation concerning the half payment of the fine when the sentence of the decision on the offence is pronounced. While the novelty does not allow for the simultaneous half payment of the fine and the application for judicial protection if the infringement pays half the fine and makes a request for judicial protection and fails, it will have to pay the rest of the fine. It is positive, however, that the half-payment of the fine extends to all decisions in the rapid procedure. With regard to the relationship between the judiciary and the police, with regard to detention, we also support the effort to change that the competent police are responsible for detention in some cases where the perpetrator is involved in an offence under the influence of alcohol or other psychoactive substances, and continues to be in danger of continuing to commit violations. In particular, therefore, in urgent matters where the swift and effective conduct of the competent authorities is essential. We support changes in the regulation of an offence of minor importance when it is now classified among the substantive and legal provisions, and the court will also have the opportunity to put an end to the proceedings if this offence is to be dealt with. We will support the amendment of the law and the amendment of the Act on Offences in Nova Slovenije, as we estimate that it is a step towards greater legal certainty in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences also follows one of the objectives of the Notariat Act, which is to relieve the courts. More importantly, the proposed law aims at decommissioning the police, as the largest criminal body, and simplifying administrative procedures in which information on the predictability of offences is to be provided. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed law. In particular, it should be pointed out that, in the last year's legislative changes, we have placed a considerable burden on the Slovenian police, but, of course, this increase in tasks and obligations has not been followed by an appropriate increase in staff and an increase in the financial resources of the police to carry out all the additional tasks. Amendments to the Offences Act, in particular by introducing a payment order in special cases, will undoubtedly contribute to the partial decommissioning of the police and simplify certain procedures. As a positive assessment, we also consider the introduction of a half-payment of a fine imposed by a decision on an offence if no legal protection is sought. This option will certainly increase the effectiveness of paying fines and further encourage individuals to consider the merits of their claim before applying legal protection. The proposed law therefore pursues positive objectives and will contribute to greater efficiency with still sufficient legal protection. As has already been said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Your Honors are here! As I said in the previous law, the second is the one that follows the same goal. We amended the Offences Act in 2003 and 2006. The 2006 Law entered into force in July of this year. Today we are in October, and we are changing the law again. That's why, I think, on the spot, the question is whether the government may have run out of ideas on what else to launch and how to spend the taxpayer's money. What's interesting about all these changes to the law is that every time the government represents it here and the government MPs defend it, you talk about it being an integrated solution, and then it's three months since the law was enacted, and you come with a change. Now I don't know what anyone thinks is a comprehensive solution and what anyone thinks is that when someone gets up wrong at the Ministry of Justice, someone proposes a change of law. As for the judicial backlogs, I think that all the changes, all the laws we have supported in the National Assembly and proposed by the current government - I can no longer say a new government because it is no longer new, two years it is in power and after two years some effects need to be known - we simply cannot trust any more, we can no longer believe that it is simply a reduction in judicial backlogs, because laws do not produce results. And when there's no results, you always rush back into some new case, with some new electronics, with some idea that someone remembers, and you say, this is going to reduce the backlog. However, I am very interested that we will not be able to do anything before Christmas, because in November, I believe that this law will enter into force, perhaps even with 1.1.2007, and we will amend this same law and these same provisions. After such changes, people simply no longer know what a crime is, how it will be dealt with, who will deal with it, how someone will decide and talk about disposing of the courts - given all the changes you are making, it seems to me that you will send judges to re-education, because so many laws that we are changing here just to reduce the backlogs are not happening anywhere. I said in my first marriage that the previous government was spending tax money, and you're wasting time and time is money for people. Believe me, while you say in the financial consequences of this law that the funds of 50 million are needed to reduce judicial backlogs are already provided. I don't believe it. A lot of money in your government was provided, and then we saw that he was suffering a lot. And one more comment. As long as you will also be the next law, believe that the third time will be changed or now the third time will be changed for the time of your government, I don't know, you have a partial memory of certain things and you speak about completeness, I must tell you, the shortcut introduced by the ZP1D this time, it is good that you went to this variant of ZP1D that you did not apply the letters, because you would run out of letters in Slovenian alphabet, how you save the backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! Two years ago, the criminal sphere experienced major and fundamental changes. The most recent amendments were made by the basic law on offences this year, which was discussed at the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Now we are faced with an important cycle of changes, which we cannot in any way identify as non-essential. Members of the DeSUS are considered to be positive, so we will also support the complementary proposal of the Amendments and Supplements Act, while at the same time reminding us of too quickly and perhaps sometimes too little thoughtfulness about amending legislation in this area. We believe that changes will significantly simplify the conduct of criminal authorities, especially the police as the largest criminal body. We support the introduction of a specific form of payment order, which can be issued both by police officers and municipal officials. The latter have new powers in the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Peace and Order and the Law on the Protection of Road Traffic. However, the novelty not only simplifies procedures, but also allows faster procedures and consequently reduces backlogs and burdens of courts, which we certainly support in our parliamentary group. For half of the fine imposed by the decision on an offence is allowed, provided that no request for judicial protection is made. This shall be without prejudice to the constitutional right to judicial protection, since, in the case of payment of a half fine and application for judicial protection within the legal time limit, the offender is obliged to pay the remaining half of the fine imposed if the application fails. We agree with the proposed assessment that such an arrangement contributes to preventing the misuse of procedural rights in order to delay procedures and avoid refoulement and forcible recovery. In the DeSUS Group, we also support changes that simplify certain administrative procedures, as data on the predictability of offences and fines from the management of the necessary records need to be provided. We believe that, on the basis of the proposed amendment, the courts will be burdened and judicial proceedings will be expedited themselves, as the new Institute of the Offence will make it possible not to bring such a case before the courts. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that changes lead to greater efficiency in criminal proceedings and to the burden of the courts, and therefore we also support the proposed complementary proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers and co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the SDS Group, we support amendments and additions to the Offences Act, which is because they introduce police burden as a criminal body, the highest since they seek to simplify certain administrative procedures where it is necessary to provide information on the predictability of offences, and because it is a matter of burdening the courts and, hopefully, speeding up the decision in the ordinary trial. In order to simplify the conduct of the police as a criminal authority responsible, inter alia, for the control of road safety, the control of foreigners, the control of the state border and the rules on public gatherings and the supervision of the enforcement of the law on public order and peace, it is proposed to introduce a specific form of payment order. Infringement authorities, to be remembered, are administrative and other state authorities, holders of public powers exercising control over the enforcement of laws and regulations establishing offences, and bodies of self-government local communities which are empowered by specific rules to decide on offences. It should be noted, however, that the supervision of certain provisions of the Road Safety Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace is also carried out by municipal officials as officials of the criminal authority. Municipal directors control stopped and parked vehicles and obstacles in the village. They shall, inter alia, identify infringements of the provisions on road and environmental safety in settlements and on municipal roads outside the settlement and shall exercise control over the behaviour of road users in the area of quiet traffic and the pedestrian area. And municipal officials shall lay down fines and warnings and exercise the powers and measures conferred on them by these and other laws and measures laid down by municipal rules. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that municipal officials are competent to supervise the implementation of provisions such as, for example, indecent behaviour, begging, the use of dangerous objects and the regulation of effective jurisdiction under the new law on public order and peace and the law on offences will also be decided by the municipal authorities or their official persons in addition to the police, and therefore, in the opinion of the proposer and also in our view of the large one, in those cases, it is appropriate to issue specific payment orders for such infringements irrespective of the type of competent criminal authority. In doing so, it is proposed that a special payment order be issued in the event of infringements in the field of those laws when the authorised official of the criminal authority has personally identified the offence. It is envisaged that such a payment order should include, inter alia, a description of the actual situation containing a brief description of the offender, including the witnesses and the need to sign it. This is a very similar situation as in the case of the issuing of a decision on offences, namely that such a payment order may be issued by an authorised official of the criminal authority of a police officer or a municipal editor, which, of course, requires a certain level of education. In terms of greater efficiency, a rapid procedure is also proposed to introduce a half-payment of the fine imposed by an offence decision following the model of the arrangement of the half-payment of the fine imposed by the payment order. The envisaged possibility of half-payment of the fine in the decision is intended to increase the effectiveness of enforcement and a smaller number of removal and recovery procedures. Data from records of legal decisions, judgments and decisions may also be obtained by means of an electronic application which will be provided by the Ministry of Justice and also transmitted to the authorities responsible for the provision of such data. In the sense of speeding up the regular proceedings, a new establishment of the Institute of the Offence is also proposed. By this arrangement of this institution, the courts are also given the opportunity to put an end to proceedings for a minor offence. This is regulated by the new 6a. Article 54, when matters of a procedural nature pass through material matters, and delete Article 54. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendment because we believe that it will have a positive impact on the developments in this area governed by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u271	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u272	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable National Assembly! Although last year, this is the first year of this government, the backlog in the courts decreased by 7.5%, which is the highest percentage since the heavy burden of judicial backlogs occurred in 1995, 1996 and 1997, with this result we are not satisfied. The government is working, as you can see, intensively to increase this percentage, and therefore we are proposing to the National Assembly a series of judicial laws aimed primarily at the implementation of the project to remedy and reduce judicial backlogs. One such proposal is today's amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance. This one's tracking three sets, too. The first set of amendments, which is very important, concerns the informationisation of enforcement procedures. In the framework of an international project carried out in the Supreme Court, we, together with foreign experts, first developed an ideal design for a centralised court that would deal with all procedures on the basis of a credible charter and then, at the Ministry of Justice or through the government, translate it into a draft which is now before you. In one place 80% of all executive roles in Slovenia will be dealt with and the procedure will run fully automated, the information will be 100% in the court itself. We expect large investors to be informed too, small investors still have the opportunity to operate in a conventional manner, but in a prescribed and strictly defined form, allowing us to then transfer the data from this form very quickly to an appropriate court decision or decision. The second set refers to those who also execute, these are the executors. On the one hand, we are allowing more access to the executing entity, which is why education is now required at stage VII. We're lowering to V. This is an education that is also held by a large majority of all current executives in Slovenia. On the other hand, we allow the creditor to choose the executor anywhere in Slovenia, and we also give him the possibility that if with the executioner he has chosen, he is not satisfied that he can also be suspended throughout the enforcement procedure, that is to say, he proposes to the court his dismissal and the appointment of another elected executor. Additional deadlines are also laid down for the executioners to carry out their task. Finally, in the third set, some additional measures have been put in place to simplify the enforcement process further. For example, experts will be able to manage claims other than those for public auctions that are more demanding, on movable and non-materialised securities that are not quoted on the stock exchange, and on the disposal and extradition of property and on the creditor's proposal for deferral of execution, with which the debtor agrees or on the proposal set by the executing authority for the response to the proposal, without stating that it agrees silently, the court should no longer have to issue a specific decision on the postponement of enforcement. It's just in the file. The decision of enforcement shall be returned to the court immediately after the adoption of the decision in the event of recovery through banks if no payment has been made to the debtor’s bank account in the last three months. So far, it's been a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u273	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u274	Once again a nice greeting to all present! At its 25th session, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. Mr Lovro Šturm, Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, presented the proposal for a law fully in the context of the supplementary explanation, stressing in particular that it is one of the three laws, and in particular the proposal for a law that is most important in this context, since enforcement procedures are those that last disproportionately long in the courts and are also the most numerous in their scope. The bill therefore represents an important contribution to the implementation of the Lukend project, a government project to reduce judicial backlogs. He further explained the objectives of the proposed law in a single set. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said in his opening remarks that the Service had four comments to the proposal for a law, two of which had already been taken into account by the amendments tabled, and he had pointed out comments and opinions to the 9th and 10th articles on which the Service had pointed out certain issues which appeared to be potential problems. In Article 9, he pointed out the possibility of sending applications and other letters in electronic form, indicating only the personal name of the party on the electronic document, which constituted a possible problem in relation to the verification of the authenticity of the applications, but explained by the representative of the applicant that this identification was also possible through payment of the court fee by identifying the identity of the credit card. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Executives of Slovenia and said that the Chamber supported the informationisation of the enforcement procedure, but also had a few comments on the proposal for a law and an opinion on the reduction of the required level of education. In the course of the debate and when the vote was taken, the Committee adopted the amendment to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups for the new 74a. Article 74b Articles 74c and 74c. Article, and at the end of the day, has also confirmed all the adopted articles of the law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler, just stay for the pay phone. It is your turn to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you very much. It is true that today we can find that we are adopting a package of laws that we want to go to Slovenia to reduce judicial backlogs. The amendment of the law on enforcement and insurance is also one of the laws that go in this direction and by which we want to achieve effects. In the area of enforcement, these backlogs are the largest, and in the past year more than 124 thousand cases have been received by the courts. In particular, this shows how important the amendments to this law are in the direction of informing the enforcement process, as well as addressing some of the shortcomings that have so far emerged under the enforcement procedure. The proposals for enforcement will therefore be submitted on standardised forms, either by e-mail or by mail. Data processing will also be fully informed. By amending the law, the territorial authority of the executives is lifted, so that the executions can be carried out directly in any area in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, we had a few concerns about the change in the reduced required level of education of the executives with VII. At the V level, however, the argument that candidates for enforcement will have to go through rigorous knowledge tests within the Education Centre of the Ministry of Justice and carry out specific tests and tests of knowledge has been taken into account by the majority of executives to date within the V level of education. In addition, the practice has shown that so far persons have not applied to calls for enforcement, and the required level of education has also been one of the reasons for potential enforcement. In Novi Slovenija, we also support the change that will allow professional colleagues in the courts to manage their claims, of course, even more difficult will be managed by judges. This is one of the steps taken to relieve judges and to give certain powers and certain responsibilities to professional colleagues. In addition, we must find that, despite all the information, of course, computers will not be the only ones running the procedures. The Ministry of Justice is also aware of this, and I must say here that in Novi Slovenija we see all the steps that this government is taking, including in the context of the increase in resources related to the budget, that the aim of the abolition of judicial arrears is serious. With regard to the law, we also support amendments to the law which provide for the obligation to combine cases where the same debtor is involved and the amendment that the payment organisation will return the enforcement decision to the court if at least three months have not been passed on to the debtor's account and thus will not be as so far as those decisions have been there for up to one year. Amendments to the law will be supported in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u278	Thank you very much again. Good-bye! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance is already the third law under consideration today, which aims to reduce judicial backlogs. The Law on Enforcement and Insurance is very important from the point of view of the duration of judicial proceedings, since enforcement procedures are extremely long for us, and they are also very large. In adopting all these laws, which aim to reduce judicial backlogs, we must stress that we would now expect some positive effects of all these changes, not least the Lukend project, the government's project to reduce judicial backlogs, is already underway. The amendment under consideration is expected to play an important role in the implementation of this project. Members of the People's Party hope that those responsible will soon be able to talk about the actual positive effects of the amended legislation. In the framework of the law, information on enforcement procedures is particularly welcome. This will simplify and speed up the proceedings and relieve the personnel employed in the courts. Informing our courts is more than necessary. Information support from our courts is several years behind the opportunities offered by modern information technologies. Even though information is linked to certain costs, it should be borne in mind that it can contribute significantly to a more efficient work of our courts. Their territorial competence shall be lifted in respect of the executing authorities. This will further contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of enforcement. In our view, however, it is somewhat more questionable to reduce the level of education required for the appointment of an executive. However, it is certainly necessary to take into account the fact that there were not enough candidates for the candidates for the executors for whom VII is required to apply for the tenders. level of education. Under the condition that the examination for the executor, if only V level of education is required, is more difficult, this proposal can also be accepted in the amendment of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly. What else to add, which has not been said in the first two bills? It may be added that a real 7% reduction in judicial backlog since the time of this government's appearance is not a negligible percentage for those who do not say that we have hired so many and so many new people who have dealt with these judicial backlogs. And if we were to calculate this and the costs to solve the judicial backlogs, success is equal to 0%. It's just a fact. We also introduce or reduce the criteria for education in the field of reducing judicial backlogs. I would not go to the summary of the law, as it is written in the Rapporteur, because, unlike some of my colleagues, I believe that all Members, regardless of which group they come from, perform their duties and read things. As with so many laws in this mandate, it should be pointed out that this law was amended in February 2006, in June 2006 and today in October 2006 we are amending it again. It's always about comprehensive solutions. And always these comprehensive solutions, as I said in the previous law, help to reduce judicial backlogs; they are very comprehensive if we change them for six months or now we have decided to change them even more often. This law should also have a decisive impact on the recovery or introduction into the practice of the Lukend project. Someone said before me, after two years, the results could be visible, but they're not there yet. I really hope that if not in two years, but at least in three, they'll be visible to you. Deduction of education in order to achieve greater efficiency of enforcement. In our opinion, the government intends to bring some, unfortunately, under-educated people back to work; perhaps you are therefore lowering the level of education; it is a regular practice of this government, either in the National Assembly or in the ministries. Last but not least, if we really want to get rid of the judicial backlogs in accordance with the principle proposed by this government, why not say, instead of a test, that everyone who has a driving licence should be tried or even executed. The financial implications, 558 million and 50 million of the previous law, are also the undetermined costs of the first law, which is supposed to reduce judicial backlogs, and if we put it all together in layman's terms, we are somewhere in the billions. Once again, a new billion to reduce judicial backlogs. I must say that I sincerely express the fear that we will come to that number, in addition to the time that this government spends to reduce the backlogs without any effect, we will also come to that amount of financial resources that the previous government has spent on reducing judicial backlogs. I really want to, Mr. Secretary, believe me, a reduction in the judicial backlog. Finally, I would like you to come to this Parliament, before this esteemed assembly of Members, with one concrete proposal, with one concrete number that will not be misleading, which will really affect that people will no longer wait three, four or five years for a case to be resolved in a court of law. He takes their time, takes their money, and takes their health in such a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u282	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. We have before us a proposal for amendments to the law governing the area of enforcement, in which the situation at this time is not the most encouraging, as long-term enforcement procedures represent 60% of the judicial backlog. Members of the DeSUS hope that the proposed novelties will contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs and we will support this proposal. We certainly agree with the provision allowing for proposals for execution by mail and by electronic means. The possibility of self-sustaining decisions on the implementation of the information system at a central court in Slovenia, which will also be locally competent to submit proposals for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument, will also help to accelerate enforcement procedures. In this regard, we have some concerns about DeSUS Members, because we know that the backlogs are not only generated in the stage of the authorisation of enforcement, but in all other stages of the procedure. We believe that such a change in the direction of electronic submission of proposals and automatic issue of conclusions is welcome, and we suggest that the government consider the possibilities of removing the obstacles leading to backlogs, including in all subsequent stages of the enforcement process. It is true that it is also proposed to relieve the court, some of which have been done, for example, that experts can manage claims, except for public auctions that are more demanding, which is why we agree with DeSUS Members. However, we believe that this measure alone is not effective enough to reduce backlogs. We firmly believe, however, that the proposed abolition of the territorial powers of the executives will make an important contribution to the greater effectiveness of their work and that the reduction of the level of education by VII will be significant. at stage V, allowing for the necessary additional candidates for the executors. In doing so, we should recall that, while the level of education is declining, rather than the level of knowledge needed to carry out this work, candidates for a future executioner will have to go through strict knowledge tests within the Education Centre of the Ministry of Justice. However, a welcome change in the direction of data acquisition such as EMSO, tax number, data on motor vehicles is welcome, as only on the basis of these performers will be significantly faster and more efficient in their work, resulting in a positive change for creditors who will be able to pay their claims more quickly. The fact is that Slovenia has been swept away by the European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of which our country will have to pay millions of damages to persons whose trials are too long. For the time being, the judgments of the said court due to long-term enforcement procedures are not available, and the facts and all the ongoing and ongoing research on Slovenia in this area have shown clearly enough that, by the enforcement procedure we now have, something is seriously wrong. As I mentioned at the outset, Members of the DeSUS hope that the amendment will address this area in the direction of reducing backlogs and making courts more efficient and quicker in these proceedings. Therefore, we will support the complementary proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Mr. Minister with the co-workers! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance is one of the laws whose amendments and supplements are aimed at reducing or eliminating judicial backlogs. Indeed, enforcement procedures are those where, as we have heard several times today, judicial backlogs are the most numerous. At the end of 2004, they represented more than half of the outstanding cases before the court. This is a systemic problem in which the enforcement and insurance law of 1998 did not bring the solutions that creditors and the judiciary had expected and the problem of long-term enforcement procedures had only increased. The proposal is before us today, covering three sets of amendments and additions. The first is intended to inform enforcement procedures. In 2004, a project to reduce judicial backlogs in the field of enforcement was proposed by the Supreme Court. This project has also been supported by the European Commission, which devotes a great deal of attention to judicial backlogs and their abolition, and has approved aid of EUR 600,000. The project of renovation is largely based on the experience gained by the Slovenian judiciary through successful projects of the Registry of Justice and the Electronic Land Book, and is carried out in cooperation with the German and other experts of the Member States. Following this set of amendments, enforcement proposals will be able to be made on the prescribed forms, enforcement proposals will no longer need to be accompanied by documents and evidence, and enforcement proposals based on a credible instrument will be sent to the central court where the information system will automatically process them and issue conclusions. The second set of amendments and additions relates to the work of the executors. The territorial competence of the executives shall be abolished, the level of formal education shall be reduced, and the scope of knowledge, expertise and competence shall not be reduced. The creditor shall be obliged to designate the executing entity in the application for enforcement and additional deadlines shall be laid down for the purpose of expediting enforcement procedures. The third set is intended to amend and supplement the shortcomings of the current regime. Thus, the professional co-workers will be able to manage rights, real estate executions, intangible securities that are not quoted on the stock exchange and for emptying and handing over real estate, on the creditor’s proposal for a enforcement decision with which the debtor agrees or on the proposal at the time set by the executing officer for the answer does not state on a proposal. The Court should no longer have to issue a special decision and, in order to speed up the procedure, it is also proposed that, if there was no inflow of funds in the debtor's account for at least three months, the enforcement decision shall immediately be returned to the Court of Justice. The amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, namely Article 45 and the amendments for the new 74b, 74a, were also adopted at the meeting of the parent working body. and 74c. Article 1 The bill was approved without a vote against. It is clear that the removal of judicial backlogs and the best possible legal protection of an individual are fundamental objectives not only of Slovenia but also of the rest of the European Union. In the Coalition Treaty, we have stated that the Coalition's priority will be to reduce judicial backlogs. We are also doing so by amending the law on enforcement and insurance, so we will support the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues. I have repeatedly, on behalf of the Group of Members, and I am also critical of the proposals that we have also received from the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to point out in the introduction that the current Minister, Dr. Sturm, is not to blame that the judicial backlogs have not yet been resolved would indeed not be correct. For this ministry is making maximum efforts, I will not say that I am pleased with everyone that it is sufficient to identify where the weaknesses are, where the bottlenecks are, and where it is possible to draw up certain proposals, in the hope that they will produce a result, to ensure the speedy, more successful and quicker resolution of judicial backlogs. In part, this has already been successful, and we expect that the law on the amendment of the law on enforcement and insurance will also contribute to this. It is not pleasant for us Members either, and I believe that neither for the Ministry, but especially for the judiciary, the judiciary, the notary and other services involved in this, that it is necessary to adapt every so many months to new solutions, but I agree that, unfortunately, this is better than waiting for comprehensive solutions, because if we wait for them, problems would also accumulate. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, given the importance it has in the context of judicial delays, in a negative sense, because almost half of them, almost 300,000 of them mean enforcement matters - we also support this proposal. We would like to achieve full success with innovative solutions - and solutions are truly innovative. If we manage to resolve 80% of the executive proposals in a uniform form in a single court, virtually without a specific work, then we will indeed achieve an important result. I hope and I want this to be true and that there have also been sufficient reflection within the Ministry that the fact that enforcement addresses will not have to be applied, but will only be mentioned in the proposal, will not lead to an excessive number of objections, which would then, because of their resolution, delay in the proceedings themselves. The attempt is worth the effort. I hope that there will not be too many problems, because several of the proposals that have been made in recent years to resolve the judicial backlog have also caused some additional problems that we have had to correct. Although we felt that it would be better to find a compromise in the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, despite the fact that it was not found, we fully support the law. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to another issue that is not directly related to the law and that is known to the Minister or the Ministry. An important group of workers has pointed out that there is a possibility that they might have difficulties in exercising their right from a working relationship, if not within the Ministry, legislation or justice, to consider the 260th Article of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which now, according to some courts, makes it impossible to pre-mark in the event of their claim for employment claims. I have promises from the Ministry and also that special attention will be paid to this issue and that a solution will be delivered in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u287	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 27 October, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session of the assembly, which we'll resume in half an hour, which will be 4:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u288	Since the services have controlled the operation of the voting devices, please check if you have cards. Please also check if they are well invested and if there is an orange light on the side of the mountain. Thank you. We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 23 October 2006, the National Assembly found that, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members, Member Paul Rupar of 23 October 2006 had terminated the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly. On this basis, he asked the State Election Commission to inform the assembly on the basis of Article 17 of the Electoral Law, to which the candidate from the list of candidates would be appointed for the remainder of the term of office. The National Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the current Member of Parliament, Mr Paul Rupar, is to be transferred to Mr Bojan Homan. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who presented a proposal for a decision in writing to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mr Bojan Homan, born on 26 July 1969 in Kranj, Žabnica, Upper Bitnje 135, is hereby confirmed for his term of office. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite Mr. Bojan Homan to the hall. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I hope he'll feel good and work with us. [[...]] We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposed value added tax law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to article 44 of the law. Application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the amendment we are proposing, we want to ensure that the provision of financial services is more precisely defined. We estimate that when the management services of individual companies are transferred, this also makes it possible by amendment itself and by law to provide for a lower value added tax rate. However, today's discussion of the value added tax law, mainly on the basis of what the government has said after asking it, has shown that the government does not wish to waive the possibility in the value added tax law that it will be able to formally raise value added tax at least three more times by the end of this mandate, in the wake of the 2007 budget changes, in the wake of the 2007 rebalancing and the 2008 budget changes. Therefore, we will first confirm the amendment to Article 44 at the parliamentary club, but in advance, I say that we will not support the value added tax law, which allows the government to pay additional taxes to the Slovenian taxpayers. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance agreed with our proposal that the legal possibility of raising the VAT rate by 15% would be excluded from the law. We also predict that in this regard we will propose amendments to the value added tax law, and then we expect Members of the ruling coalition to support the Prime Minister in his intention not to raise the value added tax. But if you reject our proposal, we will understand that this is a matter of duality - on the one hand, the government says it will not raise value added tax, on the other hand, by the end of the term of office, it allows itself to do so formally at least three times. And that's a two-faced tax policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u290	Thank you. The others were mistakenly pressed, as they were told. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 61 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 148a. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the law. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter has already proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 27 October 2006, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. With regard to the 8th point, the assembly will vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, on the proposal for a real estate tax law on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for an inheritance tax law and gifts. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 8. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49. (against 5.)]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 9. Application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will support the amendment proposal. We had to do a lot of work and try very hard to get from the government an explanation of what the content of Article 9 of the Heritage Tax Act really means. And when we've drawn it all out, all we've learned is that the government believes that the cases and criteria in which donations can be made, the part of the tax in which legal persons and natural persons are exempt is different in terms of the possibility of exempting inheritance taxes and gifts, and for at least two purposes, this is for sport purposes and for ecological purposes. We believe that such a decision by the Government is not wise and that the adoption of this amendment would allow us to clear the contents of the second paragraph of Article 9 and to arrange it in the appropriate manner for the third hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Juban. He's quitting. Mr. Horvath. It's already explained. Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 10th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a tax law on watercraft. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 7. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter has already proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 27 October 2006, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. With regard to the 12th point, the assembly will vote on the proposed Maritime Fisheries Act on Friday, 27 October 2006, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the 13th point, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will vote on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the energy law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2 of the Act. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have 11 amendments to Article 15. We'll do it in a row. First, we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Squeakle, please. Or is it Mr. Squeakle or Mrs. Lovtijar Bebler? Mr. Squeakle, I suppose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to explain why we oppose the so-called editorial corrections to Article 15 of the Energy Law. Today we had a first discussion whether it was editorial or substantive corrections. Of course, we have found that this is a matter of substantive correction. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided after proposing that the energy charter or, if you wish, proof of the energy efficiency of the building is a public document that this is not the right way. What's the meaning of the law we're about to adopt? The law we are going to adopt means that for 700,000 units, which are combined in about 250, 300,000 buildings, 250 to 300,000 documents will now have to be issued, of course, by private producers, at an average price of 50,000 tolls per individual document. What I can imagine is who will be selected in advance by the government's assessors, whether the climate in each building is appropriate or not. Thus, in the next ten years, the ruling coalition will be able to choose instead of the minimum costs - if it were a public charter, such a cost could be up to a few thousand dollars - in the pockets of the government-privileged energy efficiency and air quality assessors over 300,000 times 50,000 tolars. This will have an important impact on sales relations, since no one will be able to go into a sales relationship, so the law says if he does not have such a charter. So, of course, it is wrong for you to decide, the ruling coalition, that this is not a public document. And you are burdening sales relations and additional burdening Slovenian taxpayers. Not only will we have to pay tens or hundreds of euros to pay for the recording of the housing area, but some private assessors will now have to pay $50,000 per building. I think this could come together and this could be a public document. Why did you choose to do that? I think it's obvious that the individuals who will do this need 50,000 tolars from each apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u294	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 21. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 56 Members present and 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. Application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Rugelj, he's giving up. Mr. Klavora, he's giving up. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, of course, tell Mr Rugl and Mr Klavori that it would be good to explain, on behalf of the Group of Members, the disagreement with these amendments, because the cost of the house owners will have to pay is 15 billion tolars. 15 billion tolars will be poured into private pockets and I can already imagine Klima Petek becoming an authorized energy efficiency assessment for the area of North-East Slovenia. I can't imagine it's because it's not a public document. Instead of using Minister Virant's concept of friendly administration, this would be an administrative procedure where, on the basis of the data collected for real estate records, they would also calculate the appropriate levels of energy efficiency. That's what you're proposing with the 11th Amendments to Article 15. Article 15, which is a three-and-a-half-page debt, paragraph 15, of which the government, by a two-year delay, puts into the Slovenian legal order an energy efficiency directive which provides in most European countries that it is a public charter, because of course they do not want individual such or other intermediaries to charge their taxpayers, as I have calculated here, up to 15 billion tolars. It's an extra cost, and you accept that today. I regret that neither the Secretary of State, with the exception of one Under-Secretary of State, knew what was going on, nor the MPs or signatories to the amendments they proposed. But of course this is today's story of energy law. Why is that sad? This is sad because Mr Janša spoke to one of the European Union's Committees of Affairs to be one of the four priorities of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of Energy. I imagine how interesting it will be when the Secretary of State meets with the other energy ministers and it will be found that Slovenia, from all the countries of the European Union, is a country that has introduced the Energy Efficiency Directive at the latest and has burdened Slovenian taxpayers for 70 million euros. That's acceptable today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u296	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the seventh amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the eighth amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the ninth amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 10th amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 11. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the eleventh amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. Application, explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please. Mr Kramberger. He was wrong. Mr. Squeakle, did you make a mistake? You didn't? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u297	Mr President, I do not think there are many Members who currently know what we are doing. In this game of fast fingers, they've already been very confused, including your trifle, and I think it's time to stop it, because it's a really stupid game. We're at the last amendment, if I'm not mistaken, to this article. This amendment is interesting because this ruling coalition has also amended the amendment. If it has been said so far that the issuer of energy cards can be the one who designs so-called energy activity and issues a review report and incorporates air-conditioning devices, it is according to your amendment, correction, that it can only be someone who is a technical consultant for this area. It is said that he has never installed any air conditioner, nor has he ever done an appropriate calculation of energy efficiency, but he is a technical consultant. Why does this amendment need to be done? This amdnam is needed because when Klima Friday is selected for Northeastern Slovenia, it will be extremely difficult to do so, because it will still need to issue 300,000 such energy cards. Therefore, on the basis of the amendment you have proposed, she will hire some technical advisers, I suppose only after the SDS register. That's possible. I'm sorry. That's possible on the basis of an amendment we're going to confirm. And, of course, these technical advisors of Klime Friday will take over the monopoly on the issue of energy cards. This is because you objected to what the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of Minister Janez Podobnik suggested that this was a public document. The government, which is talking about effective public administration, the government, which is even talking about how good it would be to have midnight, said Mr Virant, invested all the data in the computer system and then the computer system would print energy efficiency calculations and get it home by post, this government, with amendments to the ruling coalition today supported by Mrs State Secretary, is charging 15 billion tolars of Slovenian taxpayers, and will carry it out by subcontractors Klime Petek. That is why I will fully oppose this amendment and the law on behalf of the parliamentary group and also on my behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u298	Thank you. Does anyone else want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 16. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter has already proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 27 October 2006, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. With regard to paragraphs 15, 16 and 17, I inform you that the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, vote on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Notariat Act, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences and on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance on Friday, 27 October 2006, in the framework of the votes. I hereby adjourn the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for participating.
