ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Zvonko Černač, Matjaž Han from 2 p.m. on, Feri Horvat and Jožef Školč. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - that's a second defensive proposal for the Law on Economic Barriers. I would like to inform you that three hours and 15 minutes have been scheduled for discussion. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is not yet at the meeting. I propose that we proceed with the usual practice, i.e. with the meeting. And when the government representative or representatives of the government attends the meeting, we will give them the floor at the time of the amendments. Who's going to object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willy Rezman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please. We'll continue the session, as I said. No one objected to the proposal; it is not our fault if the government representative is late. Here you go, Comrade Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you so much and good morning. In fact, the real reasons are not that we should be dealing in more detail now, because we see that there is no great interest in Members, Members and not in the government. But the protocol also requires us to say what happened on the board. Following numerous discussions, after numerous tribunals, polls were carried out involving such an economy, policy, experts, scientists, interest associations, in short, all those who did so were held in the National Assembly in April. It is essential for this general debate that it is decided that the law as proposed is suitable for further consideration. A month later, the debate continued on the Committee on the Economy as a committee that is home to this area. This committee also received contributions from the legislative and legal services, the employers' associations of Slovenia and the State Council. In many proposals for amendments, the majority of proposals were made by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, but there were also many from other backgrounds, from the Social Democracy Group of Parliament, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Association for Construction at the Chamber of Commerce, and the whole range of amendments were also proposed as amendments to the home working body. In the introduction, the Minister stressed once again, in short form, what he felt was most important in this proposal. He therefore took note of the substance of the proposal and also drew attention to the critical comments, in particular the comments on fragmentation, and in particular the comments on the representativeness of the new Chambers. Although he assessed that this proposal, which he had drawn up, was made according to economic measure. That was his grade. He stressed that representativeness was one of the key problems, but did not support proposals that went to a higher threshold for gaining representativeness. Thus, the minister rejected the percentages proposed by the amendments, which were four times higher on the basis of the Ministry's basic proposal. He also identified criticism that the approach was too partial, so it was not a general law, and pointed out that it was a special law for the economy, and he also considered it to be a model for changing the chambers in Slovenia. Others stressed the risk of fragmentation, pointed out the need for a strong economic partner to negotiate with the country. They pointed out that a strong partner should also be involved in social dialogue. They drew attention to the fact that the economy needs the good professional service offered by the current Chamber of Commerce in their opinion. They also stressed the need for strong human resources teaming, in short, expressed fear that the professional potential would not be too fragmented. The main debate was on representativeness. I said that the Minister did not agree to a further increase in the percentage relating to the threshold for obtaining representativeness, particularly because he estimated that he would then threaten to have only one more Chamber of Commerce or that the current organisation would continue. He himself supported the ambition to reach several representative chambers and that there is also competition between these representative chambers. With regard to the amendment proposed by the Construction Association, which transferred its property free of charge to the Chamber of Commerce 15 years ago, it assessed that the comment was appropriate and that appropriate proposals should be drawn up by the third reading on whether the property should be exempted prior to the division or not. The Committee adopted the amendments and proposed an updated proposal for consideration by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Comrade Rezman, thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 15th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Who wants a word? Comrade Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. True, we have placed on Article 2 of the amendment, which is merely editorial in nature, but I would like to repeat once again some essential things. As I have said many times before, I will say today that the law before us, even though today we have amendments under consideration, is not good for us in Social Democracy and for me personally or was not a good purpose because the law is not regulated systematically. I am convinced that this is primarily a political law, that the government is somehow trying to seize another institution. That is why in Social Democracy we have recently drawn up our own law, which saves all chambers, both agricultural and craftsmanship in some other, more prudent way. Despite the fact that many amendments were not adopted in the home working body, Article 2 again speaks on the part that the economic chambers established under this Act are independent, voluntary, interesting and non-profit associations of legal and natural persons who carry out self-employed activities on the market. As you said before, this amendment is primarily editorial in nature and does not change the law with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. I ask all future debaters to state, at the beginning of their debate, what amendment they have a comment on. My colleague Testen signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that I, myself, am probably not going to support this amendment's parliamentary group, which the SD has proposed. They leave out the word "economic activity". They're missing the word "economy." In my opinion, it is an economic chamber that brings together members who are engaged in economic activities. For this reason, we believe that the word 'economic' must remain in this article. The second thing I would like to say is this amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which we will support mainly because one mistake has been made here. We are on the board of this SD amendment in such a content, it is said, 'which will be established under this law', we feel that unnecessary diction and that the chambers of commerce can only be established under this law, so we do not feel that it is necessary to specifically write this article, so we will support this amendment in order to support this part of the article in order to ensure that this doctrine, 'which will be established under this law', is withdrawn from the article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you. Matjaž Han appeared in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much. It's just a short replica. We, Mr Testen, do not leave out the word 'economic'. This remains normal in the amendment because this amendment has already been confirmed on the committee. We are changing only what I said at the outset, namely, 'economic chambers', which will be established under this law, are independent, voluntary, interesting and non-profit associations of legal and natural persons who carry out self-employed activities on the market. "Economic" remains normal in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you for explaining. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	It is emphasized that this is an editorial correction. Now, as I understand it, it's the next one. The editorial correction, as proposed by the Social Democracy, is necessary unless the second amendment is adopted. If a proposal from the coalition parliamentary groups is adopted, then this second editorial correction is already being regulated and therefore the first amendment proposal is not necessary or necessary. However, I do not think so - although I supported this first amendment of the Social Democracy in the previous reading - but it is not necessary to adopt it for a very simple reason; because what was added at the time is that "the chambers of commerce which will be established under this law" - is already implied in a new text. For it is said that these are chambers of commerce which are not established by law, but are voluntary, and others are not, except after this law are voluntary. However, before that, they were legal persons of public law, now they are private law, so it is well known that they are chambers established under this law. It is therefore not necessary to repeat this as a tautology. If we adopt the second amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, the matter is both editorially and substantively correct, so I propose that this second amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the two amendments to Article 2? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. However, I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Democracy and the other amendments of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, which are essentially the same. Who wants to discuss it? Comrade Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much. It is true that they are essentially the same, both as the amendments of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats. With this amendment, we wish to increase in some way the conditions for the establishment of one or more representative chambers of commerce, which can in fact be representative of the number of members and the scope of the operation. The fact is that we have already proposed a higher price, 40% for income and 40% for legal persons, at the beginning of the labour system of the Social Democrats. Once again, I can say that this amendment is, I will say, extremely important in this law, especially in terms of effective chambers: on the one hand as a partner of the country, on the other hand as a partner in social dialogue and as an effective economic service provider, which I think is most important. And if we don't accept this slightly higher censorship, then there may be problems below. In my opinion, the economic chambers, which are composed of staff, must be very strong, because only strong economic chambers, and this allows this amendment, can, I will say, represent the Slovenian economy on the market both in Slovenia and abroad. I think this amendment, both ours and the Liberal Democrats, when it raises this censorship from 10 to 20 and from 5 to 10, seems extremely important to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolič applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I believe, and also in our Group of Members, that the proposed existing solution is a good and proposed amendment by the LDS Club and the SD Group of Members will not be supported. Given the concerns of some who suggest an increase in these percentages, I would say that theoretically we can get 10 representative chambers, but I think this fear is superfluous. In view of all the debates on the committees and the justifications of the Ministry, it is expected that what is expected to be real in the future and also that these new chambers, which are supposed to be, will have a basic purpose for those who will be involved to be competitive. I expect these representative chambers, as explained by the Minister, to be more than two or three. Once again, I would like to stress that the proposed solution, given all the analyses, is an existing situation, and in particular with regard to the companies we have in Slovenia, some are very large companies that contribute to the overall share. These are less than 10. This means that the applicant had a real solution. I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the amendment myself and also suggest that others think about it and do the same, because in this way we only ensure what we have just heard that some estimate that only two or three chambers will be created. The amendment is not contrary to this, but it allows much more, on the one hand. On the other hand, it guarantees what is supposed to be crystallized after the discussions so far, and what I can understand is that some Members are also advocates. The other thing is that it is a very good protector to achieve the representativeness of our chambers that will be created, and in this way we also achieve that they will not represent, on the one hand, the interests of a narrow group of economies, which will then very quickly be able to conflict with the interests of another competitive group of economies and will be resolved differently, I will not say, less democratic, but also for the economy in a less favourable way. The other thing is to ensure that the purpose of the workshops is achieved. The purpose of the workshops, as we have been trained so far, is the purpose of the chambers as defined abroad, and on the other hand that the economy will also have a representative representative, an interlocutor with its partners not only at home, but abroad. We must be aware that our economy, if it is to be competitive and successful, is forced to participate in foreign markets. And as long as the matter is imprecise in the sense of hundreds of chambers, then even foreigners will not know who to turn to, with whom to cooperate, and will certainly represent our companies significantly less, less efficient and will also be able to seize what the company could get for its voluntary membership in the Chamber less than ever. For this reason, I propose that we support this amendment in the interest of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you. Member Willi Rezman has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much again. Well, now it's that easy to decide, probably not. They both have something good, and they have something bad, just like I see it. First of all, let me remind you that these percentages are now dramatically reduced, from those proposed on the parent's working body; there were 40 and 20, now we have 20 and 10. Why I don't think it's entirely a problem to make that decision. First of all, less fragmentation is definitely good. So that we will have a less fragmented assembly system and thus stronger and more representative chambers. This also means that the percentage will be slightly higher so that we can count on a greater generality of representation of interests and also on greater territorial coverage. For what has been mentioned on the working body is not acceptable to me, at least it is not acceptable for us to have some provincial chambers now which would represent a particular province and not any more economy. That would probably be pointless to support. Of course, there is a danger in both directions as regards the ownership of the existing Chamber of Commerce. If we have more chambers, then it will happen that this property will also be broken down. But if we have one, for example, or two chambers alone and these two have included, for example, below 20% of all economic operators, 60% will remain outside. Therefore, someone else or a small group will have the opportunity to acquire this existing property, but not everyone else, because only representative economic chambers have access to ownership and to the use of this infrastructure. However, I am in some way including that a slightly higher percentage, 10 and 20, is acceptable to Slovenia. Thus, I am counting on the creation of three chambers in Slovenia, which would be good both for competitiveness and for their strength and representativeness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you. To the word I invite the Member of the Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In the debate on the draft law in the Social Democrats' Group, we considered that the approach taken by the government in the reorganisation of the Chambers was not the best. It is not the best reason for assuming that voluntary membership initially provided for a totally unclear organisation, but it did not foresee the need for a certain number of economic operators to unite in the Chamber in order to lay down the conditions for representativeness, but, in fact, assumed as the sole objective the voluntary membership and reorganisation of the existing Chamber of Economic Affairs, to say whatever. I think that was bad. And we are pleased that the government, I do not know how much it admits, from the proposal we have drawn up in Social Democracy, has only summarized one of the fundamental solutions, namely that it is right to include in the Economic Chamber's system a condition of representativeness as a basis for organising that chamber, which should also have certain public functions which could be given from the State and which would also represent more functions that it will perform for its members, we in some amendment assume even for others to agree with it. I think that this is a good solution and we are pleased that, together on this basis, the government's proposal has then joined the coalition in doing so. Now the question is, how many chambers should it be representative? We're thinking not too many. Theoretically, of course, the current solution implies the possibility that there are up to nine such chambers, I say theoretically, but almost certainly more than if we increase the share that we propose with our amendment. We believe that reducing the number of representative chambers for the Slovenian economy is useful in this way to better organise, in this way, to represent a sufficiently and more efficient pandan, as well as talking with the social partners and talking to the government about economic and social policy, to better organise those functions that are inherently collective from certain records, education, representation abroad, information provision and so on, as these chambers will be very large to maintain their general character in this way, but not to organise themselves as a sector, although formal sector organisation is not allowed under the law, but with smaller exceptions it can still be, so that we do not see the reason why our amendment would be less acceptable than the proposal now in law. In doing so, I would really like to hear government arguments because the concept of volunteering has been adopted. The concept that has been adopted, justified and not, by the government in its thoughts, has certainly been a question of thinking about the situation of the current Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia itself, because there was some dissatisfaction about it, not only in the government, but also in the Member States themselves. And if that were not the case, there probably wouldn't have been any such changes. The second concept was not acceptable to us, but we made it clear. The government wanted to destroy the current chamber in every way, to take any power from it, thereby weakening the power of the economy as a partner in negotiations with the government. If this was the only goal, we thought that it could be achieved more easily in other ways, but let's just say the government succeeded. At least let us know where the reasons are for the fact that there has to be a lot of rooming. We simply do not see these reasons because we believe that the situation of the economy will weaken in this case, and this is not our wish and our goal. We propose that this amendment be accepted, because it would be possible, say, four, five and a maximum of three, four such strong chambers of commerce and, in our opinion, it would be better for all that remains unclear and the government has not yet told us what is going to happen in Slovenia with the other two chambers of commerce, namely, the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture, which, in a formal sense, the law is supposed to apply to them, but because it is not the basic objectives of the law of the substantive provision, but the transitional provisions, but the transitional provisions do not say anything about both chambers, which means that the government has decided: first it is necessary to break down the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which we will then do with the trade and agricultural provisions, but we will see. I think that this is not a good starting point, but that is how the government and its government majority have voted in the decisions made so far and will probably also be in the future others we have concerns about, but it seems to us that it is the most well-intentioned thing that we can do in the framework of the government concept to maintain a chamber as a strong association, at least by increasing the criteria for the establishment of chambers and thereby reducing their number and strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you. Member Testen has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Well, as far as representativeness is concerned, when we come from the early membership figures in the Chamber of Commerce, it takes 6,000 members, 6,000 members, on condition that they must achieve 10% of the economic realization, which is a very large threshold in our opinion. Apart from Ljubljana with its surroundings, I believe that no province has the right to establish any provincial chamber. We believe that representativeness, as suggested by the government, is good, but we believe it is good for reasons, because in this way it would somehow be centralisation in this area, because, in our opinion, if we went to the higher threshold, we would have a representative chamber only in Ljubljana and nowhere else. Nothing will be wrong if a representative chamber is also in Maribor or Koper, and we think this will be good for the development of the economy. As a result, we will not support the amendment proposed by the SD. We certainly believe that the government's proposal is good and optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. The government, State Secretary Andrian Starina Kosem, has also expressed a desire to discuss it, and I ask you whether you will answer it or not? At the end. Then the Member of Parliament, Daniel Krivec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. We do not support our parliamentary group of both amendments, both the Liberal Democracy Club and the Social Democrats. We believe that the Government's proposal is most appropriate in the context of the law. We must not forget that before percent it says "at least", which does not mean that this percentage is absolute value. And if we reach these percentages that are proposed in the amendment, we are essentially breaking the concept of law. For these percentages, 10 and 20, according to the analyses provided by the government, which we must trust, have shown that there is a major obstacle to the establishment of a larger number of chambers, but we are talking about two to three. Therefore, the proposal in the law, which was also somehow confirmed on the committee, I think it is going in the right direction if we want to achieve that there is also a larger number of chambers in this basic concept of voluntary association that can represent the interests of the economy. However, as I said at the outset, the percentage stated in the law is not absolute. This means that if the economic interests are so strong, a particular chamber can reach 30% of the membership already on the basis of this proposal submitted by the government. That's why we don't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Milan M. Squeakl has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! What was said a few seconds ago clearly shows that this is not a law on economic chambers, but actually a law on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. And that the result of today's vote will be that we will eventually probably have about 20 or up to 20 chambers of commerce. We wanted, even after the question of representativeness was understood by - at least so we understood - governments as one of the issues to be resolved, that there was the will to decide in Slovenia after 153 years that we would stop the continental model of the Chamber of Commerce, and that is only in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but we did not want to keep it at least this most important, which has a continental system. The continental system gives, unlike the Anglo-Saxon model where they do not need social dialogue, an important role for the economic chamber during social communication. We have proposed an amendment very similar to, of course, the amendment of colleagues of Social Democracy to ensure that we take into account the fact that we have 151 thousand 242 economic operators in Slovenia, taking into account the fact that a sufficient number of members are needed for the effective functioning of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, if we believe, of course, in the economy of scale, that it would make sense that the Chamber is representative if so many members participate in it, that their income from the sale of at least 20% and is members of at least 10% of all economic operators in Slovenia. Why are we suggesting this? We propose this because if you have already decided to break 153 years of tradition, it is not good that, as a government, as a ruling coalition, you end all the good that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce has done in the past. Here I am thinking, on the one hand, of representing the interests of the economy either in relation to the government or in relation to the legislator; on the other hand, of course, a very important segment of social communication and even more important, perhaps this is not so important in this government, namely a project of internationalisation. I do not see how Slovenia, which exports 2/3 of its product, will support the internationalisation of Slovenian companies with twenty chambers of commerce. Let me tell you, Madam Secretary of State, it was the chambers of commerce that were the representatives of the chambers of commerce who, in some countries south of us, were actually the bearers of the formation of the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs. You can imagine that in Belgrade we will suddenly have not one club of Slovenian entrepreneurs, but 20 clubs of Slovenian entrepreneurs, because 20 home chambers in Slovenia will combine, for example, the banking sector or the coffee processing sector or the industry, I don't know, the construction industry etc. And I don't understand why you don't accept the proposal that because of the area of internationalisation, where I've never met - even with the Anglo-Saxon model - you never allow, allow an increase in the threshold. Nor do I imagine how as many as twenty chambers of commerce will accelerate the development and competitiveness of businesses, how 20 chambers will look for funding sources for investment, research and technological development, when we have a total of four, five banking groups in Slovenia. Four, five banking groups, Mr. colleague, because, of course, when you look at them as ownership groups, you will see that they are only four, five really strong, and the other is either connected to the group or linked to their parent institutions. That's why I think it's very important that we support the amendment. It has already been said by the clearly authorised representatives of the Slovenian Coalition that not the first, nor the second amendment to Article 4, will not be adopted. That's why there's a gap between what the government said. The government said that there was a problem of representativeness, but at the same time it gave political guidance that what was the main intention of the Economic Chamber Act would be achieved in any way. This is not the law on economic chambers in Slovenia, it is the law on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I will not support the amendments to Article 4 of the updated proposal for the Economic Chambers Act. One of the reasons that leads me to this is the warning we received from the employers' association that the proposed amendments could lead to a lack of respect for certain international conventions. The proposed amendments could also establish representativeness for economic chambers in areas where such representativeness cannot be determined. I have to say that this is a number of times in this National Assembly, that we are talking about economic chambers. If you remember the initiative taken by the Slovenian National Party that compulsory membership in the Chambers is not good, it is bad. And on this side all congratulations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it had this opportunity and the crust to abolish this membership. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has so far represented those who invested in it most. The one who will be near the summit or the leadership. All the others, the ones for which it was intended, of course, had little of it. I therefore hope that today's adoption of this law will help those who really need to present both at home and abroad. I am not afraid that the number of chambers of commerce would increase to 20, 30 or more. I am sure that it will not harm the state and not our economy if we have another representative chamber at the Styrian or coastal ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Milan Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you, Chairman. I think the government is making the biggest mistake of its mandate so far. It is particularly sad that this mistake is made by the Minister who heads the Ministry of the Economy. If he understood and had experience - but I think he was more of a handful, he worked in the economy, especially in the governing structures - he would never do that. That is why I am also surprised by his colleagues - one of these sittings here, this is Mrs Kosemova - who have this experience and know what an organised economy means and what a well-organised and representative Chamber of Economics means. While we recognize in the Liberal Democracy that some progress in thinking has been made by the Government, it has only come to realize the need to introduce into law the representativeness of the chambers of commerce, as originally set out, would be disastrous. This knowledge has therefore only come, but it does not improve this law so well that it does not potentise those weaknesses that I feel as a person coming from the economy. For this move the government congratulates those who do not actually have an hour of experience in working in the economy, let alone have some experience in leadership positions, so that they can be aware of what it means to be organised in a strong institution representing my interests, the interests of such large, medium and small entrepreneurs that one should actually connect. That is why we have proposed in the Liberal Democracy this amendment, which is currently under discussion, an amendment that is also being tabled by the Social Democrats in the same content. An amendment that would actually fix what the government or the ministry might think would be good enough with this 10% limit. Well, it won't be good enough. The characteristics of Slovenians, both people and individuals as well as business entities, are that they simply do not unite on a voluntary basis. Slovenians are not inclined to understand volunteerism as a form and a need for integration, but are still, in fact, still in a position to think that someone has to connect them. And this has so far been proven successful in 153 years. Now, with a revolutionary move, which I do not think has been the case with the government's actions so far, the government has caused economic operators to deal with themselves. That even those who have worked actively so far in the Chamber of Economics begin to argue with each other, thus creating camps, creating some mini coalitions that simply cannot lead to a good result, in my opinion. We must, whether you want or don't want to combine all this potential in the economy in this small economy, and I believe that they will not combine it with voluntary membership. That is why we have proposed a threshold of 20% to avoid this danger, that - no, I do not agree with Mr Squill that this will be 20 chambers of commerce or chambers, I do not believe that. However, if there are 4, if there are 5 of them, this power of the economy will break, so that this service will not be repaired for a long, long time, so that it will not be teamed in these institutions, which so far represented the Slovenian economy, both on the domestic market and on the international market. So, it's going to be a process, and it's going to take forever to get this thing fixed. The result will be that the economy will simply not have a representative who could be a credible interlocutor to the government, who should listen to it in some of the measures it takes to benefit or to the detriment of the economy. You know that in Luxembourg, for example, the government or parliament must consider the laws proposed by the economy or the Chamber of Economics. This has not been a custom in the Slovenian space until now. You know that in some environments, in fact, the economy has to give a mandatory opinion in certain procedures, such as when adopting a budget that is part of this development paradigm in each economic area. So we're going to lose all of this, we're going to lose the fact that we're going to start competing with each other, but we're going to compete in a way that objectively they can't be strong enough and neither can be strong enough. Those who will be linked after I do not know any political interests or local interests, one strong, great representative, who will be aware of every government that will be aware of any policy that Parliament will be aware of, of course, in this case will not. I do not argue that the current Chamber of Commerce has been a model of good organisation and a model of rational and appropriate behaviour. On the contrary, I think that the gentlemen who sat in the bodies were too late aware of the need for the situation or situation in Slovenia to change, so that they should change their behaviour, so that they should probably change their governance structures before they should be replaced, and that they should now be replaced by the force and opportunity of law. So, all of these are findings that hold up and we agree with them. Unfortunately, in fact, when some of the management people in the Chamber of Economics are not an economic chamber, they are employees in the Chamber of Economics, they have headed their positions, they have caused damage to the entire economy, and in fact, we now confirm this damage by our decision in the National Assembly. That is why we are trying to propose once again in LDS to all those who are now listening to this debate and later, when we vote to reconsider that we are actually going to force ourselves somehow to make economic awareness of this importance of integration, to force them to create one large, strong or two or three economic chambers that will be able to create a good service that will be able to present the economy both in the international field and in the Slovenian economic and political space. For this reason, we appeal that you support an amendment that has a good purpose, that no one actually intends to deprive or reduce the reputation of the drafters of this law, but simply wants to achieve the effects that those of us who have actively worked in the economy have long done, we are aware of that. Unfortunately, there are too few of these in Parliament, but I hope that this common sense can still prevail and that we will also accept some opposition amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. I give the floor to my fellow Member, Mitja Ljubeljska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Have a nice hello to you all. I do not think, unlike my opposition colleagues, that the government that proposes this bill on the Chamber of Commerce and the coalition that supports it is making a mistake. I do not agree with this; I agree even less with some of the LDS colleagues' insinuations, what will happen, how many clubs, how many economic chambers, etc. I think it's deceiving ourselves, deceiving us who are here, misleading the public. I have not been involved in the debate on this proposal for a law in previous proceedings because it seemed incorrect to me because I have been a member of several mandates of the various bodies of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia many years ago and even in recent years, so I know very well what this structure of the Chamber of Commerce was like years ago, as it was at this moment, much has changed, there is much good, no denying it, but there is also a type of error, and above all I do not think that leadership has responded to the needs of the economy in a timely manner. The members of the Chamber of Commerce, who were forced to be members of this Chamber of Commerce, were in many ways dissatisfied, including in the company where I had spent my working time. However, I have had quite a few conversations with the highest-ranking economic chambers, and I have warned them a while ago that something should be changed in the system. As I said, there are many pluses and also a few minuses that have led to what it is today, what we are dealing with today, and that is a fact, and I think that the opposition colleagues agree with this fact, because I do not see any amendment that would prevent or suggest that it is still a mandatory membership. As I say, the fact is, it means that many of the membership so far is not satisfied that the exit will be extremely large and that, in the first phase, relatively few members so far will join the Chamber of Commerce or one of the successors of the existing Chamber of Economic Affairs. I'm alone in the dilemma of how to define myself to this amendment, whether it's 10%, whether it's 20%, or if it's 30%. I am sure that the existing Chamber of Commerce or its successor could provide 30% of the membership in the first step, certainly because the main, large business systems, which have now played a major role in the Chamber of Commerce, will be reintegrated voluntarily into this Chamber of Commerce. This is said to achieve 20% for the successor to the existing Chamber of Commerce will not be a problem, but it will be difficult for any other Chamber of Commerce to reach the 10% threshold. To provide only one large system, as it has now been, I think it is virtually impossible at this time, because most of the members so far would again have a lack of confidence in a large system. Therefore, I believe that the basic basis for voluntary membership is the right thing to do in order to eliminate this legislative compulsion. Look, coercion never produces any positive effect. Never! And those of you who were in the economy know exactly how many criticisms were made at the expense of the Chamber of Economics, precisely because it was forced, even though there were benefits. It's second, I think it's right to eliminate the monopoly. As we say, one representative, that's fine, but so far the matter has been missed and up to one system will be mistrust. I'm sure of it. The next objective is, it is said, to do some competitiveness, which means that it is improving, I would say, the function of the Chamber of Commerce to improve the work in order to increase the supply. In short, if voluntary membership is achieved and it is the mutual interest of the one who joins, something is expected, and the one who joins gives something. It's a mutual interest, and that means, I'd say, mutual pleasure as well. In order to achieve this, I think it is necessary to achieve some competitiveness, here I see at least two chambers of commerce, the successor to the Ljubljana and other, I expect at least an economic chamber in Maribor. That is why I would also be surprised to hear this little criticism from colleague Petk, who comes from the area of Maribor, and I think he agrees with me most of the time. However, I also agree with him that it would be right for him to be a representative chamber, but I think this is no longer possible at the moment, simply not possible, up to one system is a mistrust. I see two systems that will be competitive, competitiveness always means improving supply and business, which means optimising business. If these members and a chamber or a chamber representing one, two or three, certainly not anymore, then this will be the best advertising for the members who will now step out to resume their return. I'm sure they'll have some of it. In that sense, I say the case to the individual quite often. I am a member of the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia, as most of you are probably all, 30 or more years old. This is voluntary membership, and I pay every year, but in these years I have not benefited from another thing, and every year I look at what they offer me and decide whether I pay a membership fee or not for that year. I have an interest in being a member of the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia and membership is - I don't know what it is now, 8 or 10 thousand. If I were to recalculate how much I've invested in this, it's this interest when it offers you something, and you know you'll be able to benefit from it. I'd be very insidious if someone would necessarily join me and have to pay my membership fee there. Absolutely not! That's what I think it is. In this sense, I see one development potential that is indeed going to move something in this area. I am sure that the wise people of the economy, who are much wiser than politicians, will quickly find common interest and the assembly system, the functioning of the assembly system, the offer of the assembly system, will also act quickly. And here I think that the bill allows for an extremely long transitional period and a soft transition. During this time, a new organisation can actually be drawn up, a membership can be reached so far, a package of offers can be drawn up and so on. That's why I think it's wise to decide that this starting threshold is 10%, because I think it's almost mandatory to get another room in the Styrian or coastal area. That's why the two amendments, I probably won't support them either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. The fact is, as such, the Chamber of Commerce needs some refreshment. In my implementation at the outset, I never said that no one has ever had anything since compulsory membership, but all those you are defending have come from circles of economists that could be called perhaps even VIP economists. So, the economists who had some system, some connections, some acquaintances and you were very close to the top, and I believe that you also received support, the economic chamber support, and then actually I believe that 4 thousand tolars or 2-4, as much as this mandatory membership was paid in different years, you actually got more back than you put there. But those to whom this Chamber of Commerce should actually help had nothing to do with it. And for those in the Slovenian National Party we decided then that compulsory membership is unnecessary, absolutely unnecessary. I believe that the so-called VIP economists will find themselves even now that membership is optional. Fearing competitiveness and representativeness, I think it's bad. Competitiveness is always welcome. And it is time for an institution, and this law gives this opportunity for such an institution to develop elsewhere than only in Ljubljana. When I listened to some of the discussions, I think that some of you are still living in the old Yugoslavia and are more committed to the planning economy than to some progress in development or counterforce. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already introduced a law on chambers of commerce under the tactics of one other government in the previous term. And if the actual intention of the current opposition colleagues were to resolve the issue or problems that had arisen in the Chamber of Commerce, they would have had this opportunity at the time or have been offered to them in the Slovenian National Party. We also offered it to this government, but this government took it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	I come out of the river, if you want to join the club, then you have to follow his rules. This is true for all areas and from this the Slovenian National Party came when it said the emphasis was on the word "want", i.e. voluntary membership. And if you want to, then you have to follow the rules and that's why the Slovenian National Party supports mandatory membership membership. As far as the amendment to Article 4 concerns, respected colleagues and colleagues, some of us have or have worked in the economy, others have not, some of us have either met the work and working methods of economic chambers. My respected colleague was right, mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce made VIP members and small members who fed these VIP members with their membership. That's the truth. The representativeness of the Chamber of Commerce is by no means expressed by percentage, but by content and quality of work. I stress - with the content and quality of work, but not with a percentage, so in this case we will not support the amendment to Article 4. If we had done so, we would have helped to recreate the artificial creation of some VIP clubs, whose benefits are or are not visible if we are very honest and honest. This benefit was limited to all those who were more or less, indirectly or directly employed in these chambers of commerce. And this is where the whole story usually ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I am surprised to think that in Slovenia it is necessary to have economic chambers in different places, across different regions, because regionalism understands significantly differently than that the economy of a region is closing itself. Great China, when it built a wall, then also the first and greatest civilization became the last and only now is being gathered and trying to achieve the position it had. Albania was also bigger than any of our regions and has closed itself down economically, and we see where it is. In no way do I see the promotion of regionalism and regional development in the establishment of regional chambers. This will cause small things like what we have to see on local self-government, in municipalities, and there can be so many municipalities in a region, they can't compete with large ones and they can't compete with the center. And they can set up chambers in Maribor, Cyprus, Murski Soboti, I am sure that here too there will be an expression of centralism, and if you are not in Ljubljana, you are not. The economy also operates significantly wider in today's globalisation process, and is not linked according to the location where companies work, where they are established, but are linked in terms of economic interest. Economic interest can be pan-European, it can be strategic partnerships, including the scale of business and the physical size of economic operators, but not if they are closed down. And that makes it difficult for me to accept such an argument and I do not believe in it either, but I agree that we need to build representativeness on how much a chamber that wants to be representative can offer and enable its members. However, we all know that the struggle of David and Goliath is just a case that confirms the rule and that, as I have already said in the beginning, even in representing our economic operators abroad, they will not be able to achieve what is expected of them. I very much agree that it is better for economists to be wiser than politicians, and that is why they rightly expect us not to adopt laws that would hinder the development of the economy, but those that are beneficial to the economy, if not already in their favour, but at least not in their favour. And I also, of course, agree that the management of the Chamber of Commerce has made a mistake. The biggest mistake was made by the president of the Chamber of Commerce, who had not previously resigned for personal reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudi Veršnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I cannot support the proposed amendments. We are witnessing today's debate of a great demagogism, which is being sold on a large scale of chambers, which will suddenly appear in Slovenia. I think that these speeches are completely inappropriate, even for this hall and for people who at least consider themselves experts in this area. Force is never good, especially in domestic life or in a company, probably in an economy where it happens, because it teaches us life already, so that the best and the greatest things can happen by engaging, which is not under duress. Let's see which thing actually works best. If we look at our firefighters, who are always available to "risk" their lives to help us, and we can look at societies and so on. The current merger in the Chamber of Commerce was a type of coercion and I can say from practice that in my company where I worked, we received a monthly bill, which was not as small as 75,000 tolars, but I can say that we did not get anything from the Chamber of Commerce, nor did we get an annual report that belonged to us, nor were we involved in our activities. Why? Because we were a company, a large 85 people and an insignificant factor on the Slovenian market. I am convinced that those who had something from the Chamber of Economics were large, influential managers very much involved in the work of the Chamber of Economics. And I think the government was doing the right thing, giving managers, entrepreneurs the opportunity to decide again what they want. I'm sure if they see interest, they'll be happy to join the Chamber of Commerce, and probably the Chamber won't be any different than it is today if there's no interest in that. Then what they say can happen, but not so demagogically, I think it can happen that there will be two or three chambers, which I don't think will happen anymore. Above all, it is necessary to look at the satisfaction of the members and, if this satisfaction and interest are great, the response to the Chamber will also be true, and there is no reason why it would not work significantly more successfully. The guilt is certainly on its own at the chamber. There have already been criticisms in the public about the functioning of the Chamber and, since the performance of this Government, to date - quite a good time has passed - and the reaction of the management of the Chamber of Commerce has not been appropriate, it has not responded to the request for change or modernisation, according to a new view of the work of the Chamber of Commerce. The result was that the government gave the economy the opportunity to decide again. And that's what the economy has now. And today we have heard many times that economists are more rational in decision-making than politicians, and I am sure that they will make the right decision, and as they decide, I think this will be the right move and the country has given them the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you. I invite Member Branko Marinič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! When we consider the proposed amendments to Article 4 of the proposal for a company law, much earlier there was some disagreement on the one hand in the management of the Chamber of Commerce and, on the other hand, the entities forming this Chamber of Commerce. This is why the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia has triggered quite a few important responses. Most are related to the issue of compulsory membership and membership, public powers and also to the huge assets that the Chamber of Commerce or this association has created in all these years of operation. Why is he actually going? We know that no systems that were large were successful because of their size. What happened to the Chamber of Commerce? Something like that, I'm sure. They wanted to be big, they became rigid, they did not respond to many of the problems and proposals proposed and wanted by those who joined the Chamber of Commerce. What is another obstacle is that their membership was mandatory. And it's a certain obligation in an association where you don't experience what you've joined in that brings you to start thinking about how from this system, how from these claws, to realize those interests that you were expecting when you weren't a member. Or was the obligation dictated to the Chamber of Commerce by this great power, authority and, after all, non-democraticism in association. Many members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, with whom I had the opportunity and also a personal desire to talk, expressed precisely this undemocratic and authoritarian nature of the lower part of the management of the Chamber of Commerce and again we are at the beginning. Big systems are togi. Large systems that are designed within a large system, rare individuals create this authority and individual members who are united in this system do not achieve what they expect. I am convinced that the amendment under Article 4 does not bring and in some way does not eliminate this non-democraticity or authoritarianism, so I will not support it myself. However, as regards the breakdown of such large systems as the Chamber of Commerce, as my colleague Ljubeljšek has already said, I may also see in some way one economic chamber in the second largest Slovenian city, namely Maribor, or perhaps somewhere in Primorska and of course in the center. This will make it easier for membership and leadership to coordinate the interests that actually make it possible for them to join and unite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. In the past, in a period of a former country that has long been gone, and in a former social system, we had one president, who was on this function for life, we had one union, we had one client, we had one television, and we had one chamber. Thank God these times are long past, we are living in a completely different world today. We live in a democratic country that is a full member of the European Union. We have a multi-party system, we have multiple union centers, we have a president that we love in direct and secret elections, we also have more plural media. In short, a lot has changed, and the rest is an economic chamber. It doesn't bother me that much, but it bothers me that we have one chamber in which membership is compulsory. Those who are members may not choose whether they will be members or not, or they may even go elsewhere, but a chamber in which membership is commanded by law. I don't think that's good right now. Today, people, economic operators are connected on the basis of some interests. And if they're members of anything, society or associations, it's because they see their interests there. Unfortunately, all too many economic operators, which in the existing Chamber of Economics, I have here in mind mainly these smaller entrepreneurs, do not see the true meaning in such an organisation. I therefore welcome the proposal for a law that abolishes compulsory membership and allows the possibility that everyone, on the basis of his or her own interests, his or her expectations, on the basis of what this organisation offers him, will also decide whether to become a member or to settle his or her obligations and, on the other hand, also get something from this title. I also welcome the fact that the government is preparing a proposal, which means another step forward, that there will be no more compulsory membership, but that it will also be possible to choose. Let the one who works harder for his members be the one who offers more, who will be more successful in gaining members, because it is precisely the choice, I think, that will in the long run bring many benefits to all economic operators in Slovenia. I also see no reason why economic operators should not or could choose an economic chamber. Today they can choose a lot of things. They can voluntarily merge, transform, connect into different interest groups, be able to choose the audit house, be able to choose the bank through which they will carry out payment operations, be able to choose the form of action, be able to select employees they will hire and so on. I see no reason why we should not also have the opportunity to choose an economic chamber that will represent their interests to the greatest extent. I do not see any fear that the number of chambers would increase even to the extent that Cvikl here unwarrantedly explained 20 chambers. If we look at the criteria for establishing a chamber, this is also theoretically impossible because the criteria are 10% of sales revenue; this means that a maximum of 10 chambers could have. We must not forget that there is yet another criterion to be met, which is 5% of the number of economic operators, while we must also take into account where membership will be voluntary, all will not be members of these chambers at all. I estimate that in the future we could get some, one or two more chambers, which is just right for healthy competition and for the economy to get the right service that is actually needed in this modern world. The increase in these conditions for obtaining representativeness would in fact mean that we are putting high barriers to not setting up any more chambers in Slovenia. I don't think that's our intention, and that's why I'm not supporting the amendment. I even believe that what is already in the bill that these conditions are already relatively harsh, even as regards revenues from sales - 10%, this must already be a pretty set of companies that will meet this condition, so I think that any increase in these criteria in which I personally am concerned is out of the question, and I will not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Milan Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you, President. I must say that I respect and appreciate the discussions of the coalition Members because they are trying to strengthen the government's decision taken by the government. I'm afraid no argument specifically convinced me to give another round of applause and say you're right. They are well-known and heard facts, which you repeat throughout the debate, but that is parliamentary democracy, and I recognize that. You probably don't think we're naive. Why did this even happen? This Chamber of Commerce, however some, including me among them, was partly dissatisfied, especially with leadership more than the institution as such, it was a strong actor, which each government - in this case our government has in its own way launched the dismantling of one strong actor - the fight of such actors. In this case, they relied on something I said at the outset, in the future, when it can be measured and assessed as a mistake, and I am still convinced that this is a mistake, because so far none of these arguments convinced me that we would say, we are going optimistic and with great anticipation for this future. You spoke to those who stressed this competitiveness of the chambers. I simply do not understand how in this economy two million people would create competitiveness for 151 thousand economic operators to such a small extent. You can work competitively in the American economic space, in the Japanese economic space, in large systems. All you can do here is compete in a small environment, so in a small environment, you can't perform outside. In internationalisation, you are a poor child, you are small, not to mention that of course you cannot raise enough funds for one good quality work, one good presentation of the economy of higher-a-policy or in the international space, and that is what bothers me. I have been in some bodies for a long time, and I also do not agree that everything can be done and done in Ljubljana. From my own practice, I know how the current president or director of the Chamber of Economics wanted to locate his man in the Maribor Regional Chamber of Economics, and we resisted him, we knew how to organize ourselves and put up with the man we thought he deserved our trust; and here he actually got one lesson in how he couldn't and shouldn't be behaved by someone from some power center, all-powerful and self-sufficient. Here I attach to those who believe that the local environment may not really have the right position in this Chamber of Commerce, but this is to a greater extent, in my opinion, the problem of local economists who did not know how to organise themselves. And to say that the economy should be closed to local environments, that local chambers should be formed, but it seems to me that this would mean even less in some international economic space, because simply across borders everyone must go, but they can only go if they are strong and if one economic chamber starts to establish its own representations in some other countries. Small chambers of commerce, although representative, will simply not be able to do so under these criteria, but I do not believe that the ministry or government is capable of establishing its own representations or of borrowing embassies and embassies with an area they will never master, and that is, for me, larifari. Mr Ljublješek, and thinking positively, felt that time would show whether the decision would be right or wrong. So, at this time, it's just going to break down one system that might not work very well at this point, but it's going to fall apart, and before these conditions are fixed, before a really strong economic chamber is established, it's going to be, in my opinion, a huge amount of time. This time is a time of lost opportunities for the Slovenian economy, but at that time it takes a strong representative to adopt legislation, to decide on government and parliamentary interventions in an area that is indisputably concerned with the economy, and to take time to actively enter and strengthen the activity of the economy in the international business area. There was a talk mainly about those, as I said, who know little about the real opportunities in the economy, how some VIPs formed in these chambers of commerce, because in each institution and in every environment, some are in a better position or are at the trough, but some are not. The wrong explanation is how some people got nothing, but they paid hugely, contrary to ladies and ladies, they paid the most and the strongest, some little nothing, you know that some young people didn't pay anything, that there was a lot of small payments of 3,000 to 5,000 tolars per month, but that one medium that could not be used and pulled from the Chamber of Commerce was something that they could, but probably, but unwarrantedly criticized because it did not realize that the Chamber of Commerce was not only the distributor of the report on its work, but the Chamber of Commerce was the one who was directly defending, providing, improving and subsequently tolerated the effect of the economy or good or bad we can talk about it today, I don't know how long. But indirectly, for what was paid, it was also indirectly an effect that some do not realize, because our economic structure, our potential of some economists, is such that they do not reach even the limits of their factory or their business, let alone they can see and read to them what the institution, such as the Chamber of Commerce, was or will possibly be the next, could bring. As a result, it is unjustifiable that some had nothing. If they wanted to have, be assured, they could always have had a lot or a lot; some might not have been satisfied and they are justified in criticizing. So, I conclude my performance with a repeat appeal that we all consider together whether this representativeness would really be placed on that level to ensure a large enough, sufficiently representative chamber. It seems to me that with these criteria we will now create too little. I hope that time will show - if you make such a decision - that this is not the case. Of course I'll be most happy, but I still agree with these real chambers of commerce. And there's something else I'd like to point out that I've missed. The duplicity of the government, the duality of the ministry - go after the one that is most powerful. For a while, she's saying she's going to interfere with the other chambers of commerce. According to most recent media performances by Minister Visiak, I can already hear, but the Chamber of Commerce is properly organised, it is the right one. But the Chamber of Commerce is a mandatory membership, ladies and gentlemen, and so why separate it from one, and with others forget what I have used all the time as an argument in this Chamber, and leave the Chamber of Commerce as it is. I agree, and I believe that the Chamber of Commerce must remain as it is, with mandatory membership. But if the government takes this step there to say it, now unite on a voluntary basis, and there we know the level of this willingness to join together. Then let's write down the Chamber of Commerce forever. The Chamber of Commerce, thank God, has taken a different route. She can flatter the government, she can flatter the minister, she's only 10 requests out of 60. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	My friend Friday, now I'm going to have to interrupt you because you don't stick to the subject of the amendment of the above-mentioned article. I'm leaving a broad enough debate, but please stick to the subject, otherwise I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	I merely substantiate why I feel that the attitude toward one chamber and another is different. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	My friend Friday, we're talking about the amendment and the article, otherwise I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	I'll finish it, Mr. President, so we don't argue. Thanks for the heads-up. So, I still think that this duality in this case is not appropriate, and I appeal to the adoption of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you. We continue the debate. May I have peace and attention, please? Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have been talking about this subject quite a good time very intensively at different levels. I think it's right that we talk a lot about this, that we are and that we are today. We repeat many points that have already been expressed either on the Committee or in Parliament or in public debate. And yet after 12 years of membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia I have some views, some experience. I must say that many things in this institution have not been so bad that there have been many good things in this system and it is still good. Unfortunately, I have to admit, lately this chamber has really fallen asleep in laurels, falling asleep because it didn't have to fight hard enough because every month it's accounted for so much and so much money. I mean, not everyone was paying. They're usually big. The little ones kind of got away. However, in the end, there was no need to prove, after increasing aggression on this and that part, and therefore it is probably not only leadership, but first of course leadership, probably also members of the board of directors, the board of directors, but also members of the chamber themselves, because obviously some of them were satisfied with it, and unfortunately the vast majority were not. This has probably also happened that the government, the ministry, has found that one thing, however, has forced, put the leadership and responsible people to sleep, that it is not right and wise - as a former economist, I believe that this moment of compulsory membership, voluntary membership is a step that brings about remarkable changes in the Chamber itself. I think we are sealing our eyes that this rash will be extremely large, especially small Slovenian companies. Perhaps the great players of this chamber will remain inside, which, of course, is the right thing to do. When I talk about this article - 10% of entry - there was much debate, including on the labour force, because we were thinking about whether it was the right number, whether it was too small or too large, and in the analysis given by the Ministry of Economy, they found that this assessment was their right. Question, time will show - year two - whether this number has been hit correctly today or not, it is always possible to fix it, the corrections are always possible in life and this 10% fix at 15 is probably not going to be a sin, or hard, maybe even 20, I don't know. But I think we've talked about this a lot, and it's also been a confirmation of the opinions of many Members, opposition and positions, as well as of the ministries as such that this number is the right one, of course I believe and I'm sure entrepreneurs, economists, managers who have been set up in these companies and have confidence on the part of the owners know for sure whether they need to be a member of the Chamber or not. This is their judgment and believe me, everyone knows very well what they will do today when this day D comes. Whether it benefits the chamber and if this cost is not too much, the thing will certainly go on, in another case certainly not. This is what I think is a democratic step forward in this area, that they, as a business, as owner, may or as a supervisory committee, decide whether they will continue or not in this Chamber. How many rooms are there, two, three? I don't know, it'll show time, will and interest again. But "fine" would be to form at least two or three, it would be good to speak so much in these days, at these meetings of the National Assembly, after decentralisation, and for more consistent regional development, and for balanced development and so on. This chamber, if there were one in Ljubljana, one in Maribor and one in Cyprus, I mean, it would also be for the Slovenian economy, as well as for the municipalities, the regions, certainly a step forward. Today's information, telecommunications, electronics business, it doesn't matter whether you're doing business from Kopra, Maribor or Ljubljana to do the same. And at that time it happened that there was indeed one cluster of employees in some branch or district - in Posavska, where I come from - and only two - at Dimič in Ljubljana. This also seems to me to be a bit of a choral aspect, an economic view that is difficult to understand, hundreds of people are down, and only two poor directors and another professional worker who is supposed to have all this story in one room. Why this has not been done so far so that we can strengthen the regional chambers of commerce a little bit more in Slovenia and also give a certain effect, but not only in Ljubljana. I think that's a little inappropriate. I am sure that this 10% and this amendment that is proposed is not put in place, and that I am confirmed by what I received from my parent's working body, that ten is appropriate, and I will support it myself, so I will not support this amendment. However, I would like to see this representativeness of the assembly system in Slovenia tomorrow, certainly given by content, membership, new members, old members, and probably they will show what they can do in these chambers themselves. However, I hope that there will also be no harm to competition in this area, at least the economy and the least wise, obviously Slovenian managers, directors who know and know how to decide at a given time whether to be a member or not. Let's leave it to them, let's not let politics judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear President! The assembly systems are, in particular, mandatory, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, all weak and undesirable. If we want to have a quality link in different chambers, not just in economics - and this is bad in this story that today only an economic chamber can be considered - then the association in chambers must be on an interesting basis. We keep this in mind, and on this occasion I would like to point out that the Slovenian National Party was the first to propose - that this practice in Slovenia should cease. And the amendment to Article 4 is just an attempt to keep as large a cake as possible, with what separates itself. If we look at why and what the main purpose of the Chamber of Economics would be, why the Chamber of Economics is not the same as it is, right for users, then we see that we have done nothing in a single performance in markets outside Slovenia. Our quality products are still being sold abroad cheaply and what is most harmful to the Slovenian economy is membership. And what happens if someone doesn't pay the membership fee, you know that his bill is being blocked, whether it's for a trade hall or an economic or any other. If there's going to be a room, there's too much fear there'll be too many. We've been putting unionism in a new place, too. One of the predecessors spoke before, thank God we don't have a former system anymore. Of course, that's exactly what this is and we mustn't be afraid of. If there are many representative trade unions today, more than in the union area, then there will also be interlocutors to the government, high-quality interlocutors who will express their opinions in a way that the law will allow them, thus through representativeness, better interests will be represented and satisfaction in the economic sphere will be enhanced. I see no fear of being afraid of competition in this area. Interconnection will lead to a few more of these entities, but competition within these organisations will be increased. Why don't we just have Chuck, why don't we have someone else to worry about, even an owl, something else? I am not opposed to the fact that the Primors would not have their own Chamber of Commerce, or the Styers, because we know that in this area too, the country is doing great wrongs, neglecting the regions, regional development. Even when we are talking about equitable demographic development, we are full of mouths, when there is something to be done, and all roads lead not to Rome, but to Ljubljana. And this is where all politics decides how much someone gets and who they're going to get rid of. In this context, I believe that the situation will be better, as regional integration in the economic field will also take place if we make this possible by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you. The fact is that the Slovenian National Party is the one that started with the idea of voluntary membership in chambers of commerce. I think it was a proposal that fell on fertile soil and gave it to a lot of people. In fact, I would like to move once again to the amendment to Article 4 and draw attention to some of the substantive elements that have emerged from, I must admit, the very constructive debate today. In fact, it would be very good to read the amendment, two of them are identical, with a slightly broader and more understandable amendment, which is written as the first one, so the amendment, which says exactly that it wants to increase the percentages, namely at least 20% of the sales revenue, 10% speaks of economic operators, that is to say, if we are talking very precisely about the amendment. Anachronism occurs if we also review the opinion on the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, as provided by the legislative and legal service, which doubts which calls for consideration that the subject of regulation in Article 4 is the definition of membership in the Chamber, while the bill distinguishes between members and supporting members. I think this is a warning that needs to be taken very broadly. And if we look at it all together, we actually come to the opposite. On the one hand, we increase the criteria for representativeness, on the other hand, it emerges from the content of the fear that the economic system would fail. Why? If it is effective, it will be even more successful with voluntary membership. However, if it is ineffective, compulsory membership will not in any way save it. It will only save him so much that he will have the money provided for his inefficiency. When we compare all this data, the demands, we find that what I've actually said before is actually exactly what I'm saying, and I won't say again if you want to join the club, you have to follow its rules. These rules should be made clear so as to be as broad as possible and to allow for the greatest possible number of options for integration into the Chambers or on the basis of income criteria or by the criteria of economic operators. This system should certainly be developed. Members, who are largely respected from the Committee on the Economy abroad, possibly for finance and monetary policy, have probably already heard from many of the colleagues of the Member States of the European Union how they are missing, I stress that they are missing the presence of economic chambers at a broader level. Let us not forget that we have decided together not only to live in Slovenia, but in a large country called Europe, and that economic chambers where they want them, where they want economic contacts, and this can be confirmed by my colleagues, unfortunately there is no reason why they are not, is not the subject of today's debate. However, this element needs to be taken absolutely into account in the context of the drafting of new legislation. Once again, let's not lower the criteria or raise the criteria, let people who choose to go their own way through such an economic chamber or another, and allow them to develop as widely as possible on the basis of the economic system that we have gathered ourselves, and this is a market.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Stanek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Competition is the one that is always welcome on the market, and so is the room. If we ask ourselves why the Chambers are even needed; they are needed because economic operators have an interest in pooling in the Chambers. And interest is the real thing that has to create a chamber, whether it's local or not, or it's a branch, it's a matter of interest. And the competition, I stress, is always welcome. My colleague Petek, who said earlier that we are a small market and that this is not right, would still have a planned economy because we are a small market. I am not a utopian to convince others who are thinking differently, but I think it is right that there are several chambers set up and that they are competing with each other and that we are getting maximum results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you. And so far the last on the list reported by Members and Members of Parliament, Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thanks again for saying that. I represent or represent the interests of those people who, as we knew him in Slovenia, did not have much. My Maribor colleague, Mr Petko, and I know in Maribor, or we have mutual friends, acquaintances or colleagues who had something from the chamber, and some who did not have much from the chamber. And it is right that someone also represents those who had or had such good connections from the chamber, such and different, that the chamber offered them something. I can look at the amendments, as proposed, even in the direction of further centralisation of this country, which is also one of the reasons why I will not support these amendments. Of course, I believe in the government when Members of the ruling coalition talk today about decentralisation, unless these amendments are accepted. But I have to tell you, I'm gonna keep an eye on the other room. I believe Maribor deserves it. He deserves it. And only then will we be able to talk about decentralisation. When we started working in the Slovenian National Party on the system of optional membership in the Chamber of Commerce, we did this under the assumption that the Chambers would become more active and, above all, fairer. Last but not least, if there's more room, people are definitely welcome. People will be able to make decisions based on the work of an individual chamber, if any, which they will join, which will offer them more, or which will be the most supportive of them. That is why I say that, especially for Maribor as the city that is somehow the slowest - I am talking about the bigger place in this country - it is developing, the non-acceptance of these amendments is still an important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you. Member Bojan Rugelj also took the floor. On that note, I'm informing you that you have 17 seconds available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much for 17 seconds. Maybe something can be extended. I'd like to welcome Mrs. Secretary from the Ministry of Economics. I would define myself as to obligations and non-obligation. I think it's clear to everyone what obligation or non-obligation means - it's mandatory. [[End warning sign]] Just one thing in this world. Of course, another thing about these amendments is the 10% and 20% proposed by the LDS. I can't support this. It is already expected to join 50 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Comrade Rugelj, please close. Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Lucky Friend has also entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. When I spoke earlier, I did not point out the most open point that all economists put forward is financial non-discipline. And it was in this area that the Chamber of Commerce fell on the line. Financial non-discipline in the economy is particularly painful for those who are good, quality, loyal, and very painful. I'll tell you what this has to do with the amendment. If we follow the amendment to Article 4 in the form given, then we will also limit the creation of new chambers and try to maintain this cake, which is today as big as it is, to the greatest extent possible, and we will not come to the conclusion that the chambers will be connected either at a regional level or at any other level. When we're talking about financial non-discipline, it's not right for someone who made a product to deliver it to a contracting entity and then doesn't get paid for it. And the country doesn't care about that; the country takes the tax from these people or those economic operators. The Chamber of Commerce didn't do anything here. All she cares about is how she arranges for new business facilities and how much money will be spent to travel abroad and how the people who are there will be richer, from year to year, and in fact nothing is going to return to the economy. Mr. Friday can laugh, he knows the systems well, and he believes what I'm saying, so it's funny for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Mr. Friday will tell you why he's laughing. He laughs because the president interrupted me earlier in the consideration and justification of the amendment, that of course he did not apply the same attitude to his fellow Member, so I laughed that it would not be misunderstood. And to explain Mr. Zagorec's performance. To me to say that I do not want an economic chamber in Maribor, but it would be really slow, I am best aware of what this means, that and if there was a strong chamber in Maribor. Unfortunately, so far this Chamber has not been able to implement these roles in the current Chamber, and somehow I am not so sure that the potential of this economic environment is capable of building such a strong chamber that it could be representative in terms of presenting indeed elements or the demands of a higher-a-vis policy economy and a higher-a-vis internationalisation. But this is my modest opinion, it doesn't mean anything, and of course I'm giving support if the economists decide how much this lower limit, 10% and 5% will remain to organise, and I want to, I hope that they will organise in this case, and I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you. In explanation, Comrade Friday. All the debaters spoke in the context of the said law and article, namely the Law on Economic Chambers; you alone withdrew from the topic of the Chamber of Commerce to the Chamber of Agriculture, and I was therefore obliged to point out that you were the only speakers who did so. The last one on the list so far is Ambassador Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think before I start, I'm gonna break up because I only have 40 seconds. Changes are necessary but not in a way [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't care if I talk. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Geza Juban, you have 22 seconds. Okay, you're quitting. The Government or State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Mrs Andrijana Kosem Starina, also applied for the discussion or conclusion of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I would like to touch on the issue of representativeness. Mr Petek said in his last speech that he did not believe in any way that there could be such a strong chamber in Maribor that it would become representative. This is certainly not the case with the support of the amendment, which raises this threshold to 20% and 5%. I would like to explain how these borders were set so that we did not just make these borders up in mind or draw them out, and these limits were determined on the basis of an analysis from other countries on the number of economic operators remaining in the chambers of commerce when the mandatory membership is lifted. In addition, consultations were held with various experts in the field of the functioning of the Chambers of Commerce, which confirmed the proposed border as real. The proposed border theoretically allows the establishment of a maximum of ten representative chambers on condition if all economic operators are included in the Chambers of Commerce, to be evenly distributed, which is virtually impossible. In fact, we estimate that in Slovenia there can be two to a maximum of four representative chambers under this law. Such a number is, according to our assessment, appropriate as it ensures proper concentration of the economy and at the same time introduces some dynamics and higher quality and response resulting from competition in the organisation of economic chambers. Any representation limit higher than the proposed would lead to a monopoly or protect the current monopoly and narrow elite, which dictates everything. That's why I would also like to strongly reject the obvious that the government wants to bring together an economic chamber because it seems too strong because it is afraid of it and I don't know what else. Look, the government doesn't break anything with this law, and if the economy decides to offer this chamber to the economy what the economy wants and requires, everyone will stay in this chamber and the government itself as such can't break anything by law. But for the first time, the economy will decide what it wants, and the economy, the economic operators will decide whether this chamber can remain monopolistic and in this area there will be no need for changes or competition in this area. Of course, competition that has driven development and progress. I would've put things differently. This is the first government that has listened to the economy, I will tell the main, actually 90% of economic operators, these are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, not small or narrow elites, which now dictate everything through the current system. The 153-year tradition was mentioned here. Perhaps this would mean tradition in another area, but in this area it calls for the amendment and updating of the legislation required by the economy. You mentioned my work and experience in the economy and wondered how such a marriage could come to the tables. Yeah, I've been in the economy for 20 years, mostly in the middle of business. And as director, you've been working with all your colleagues, of course, absolutely unsuccessful about what to do in this area. Since I know the whole issue mainly on the other hand, on the economic side I would like to conclude earlier that the adoption of this law in the National Assembly is a historic event for 90% of economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Only as an explanation to my respected colleague with indisputable economic experience, Mr Petk, would I never in my life allow myself to claim what you think you are not for the Maribor Chamber of Commerce. This was not to be seen in one of my performances, so it seems to me that this diversion on your part is completely unnecessary, and such replication is merely a waste of time in this national assembly. But it is true, given that you are advocating an amendment that somehow makes it difficult to set up additional chambers of commerce elsewhere in Slovenia, this could be discussed. And from your performance, at least in my opinion, it was a tendency to see in the proposal of the amendments of the Social Democrats and of the Liberal Democracy at least abstain, given that you yourself said that you were about to set up a strong economic chamber in Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment of the LDS Group and SD to Article 4. I am opening Article 5 and putting to the debate the amendment of NSI, SLS, DeSUS. Who wants a word? Mr. Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker! Allow me to focus on the very content of the amendment that we have proposed together with the colleagues of the SLS Group of Members and with colleagues of the DeSUS Group of Members. I do not think it is right for the Slovenian public to be burdened and, in addition to bad times, to kill further with some false expertise, how something terrible will happen if this bill on chambers of commerce is passed. I am convinced that the National Assembly has an extremely important mission also with regard to the concern of Slovenian, that is, our language. The National Assembly must certainly give some directives or, better said, guidelines, instructions, instructions for the use of the Slovenian language. Finally, Slovenian is one of the official languages of the European Union and I think we have nothing to be ashamed of, and we can be proud of that. As it is said, Members of the New Slovenia Group, together with colleagues from the SLS and DeSUS, have proposed an amendment to Article 5, by which we wish to contribute a fraction for more Slovenians in everyday life, if you wish, to a business life. We want the name of the chamber in Slovenian or that the provisions of the law on the public use of Slovenian apply mutatis mutandis to the name. In particular, I would like to refer here to Articles 5 and 9 of this Act, so allow me to be precise, because I want to read only the first paragraph of Article 5, which reads: "The public authorities and bodies of the local self-government, public service providers and holders of public powers, who decide on the rights and obligations and legal benefits of individuals and organisations, use the Slovenian language in accordance with the laws governing their duties and powers." Article 9: "State authorities and bodies of local self-government communities, public institutions, public companies, other persons of public law and political parties have a name in Slovenian." Dearly beloved, I am sure that today, when we decide on this amendment, there will be no one in the National Assembly who would say "no" to the Slovenian language. I therefore propose that we all support this amendment when voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. My friend Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Well, given that my fellow Member has already justified why we are proposing this amendment, I would add only this or stress that the proposed law confers on the Chamber of Commerce the status of a person of private law. At the same time, it also offers it an opportunity as an instrument of public authority, and I stress once again as an opportunity. And in view of these two important matters, it would be just as we suggest that both in the first case and in the second case, the name should be followed by the provisions of the law on the public use of Slovenian. We consider this to be a valid argument, but in addition to the two articles referred to by a fellow Member, he would also mention Article 17 which refers to the designation of private law legal persons. Just what I mentioned as the first argument - namely that the company or the name of the legal persons of private law and of the natural persons who carried out the registered activity is entered in the register or other official record, if it is in accordance with the sectoral laws in Slovenian. The translation of the company or names into a foreign language may only be used in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia together with a company or name in Slovenian. The translation in this record must not be more graphic than the company or name in Slovenian. Surely these are justifiable reasons or arguments to really support this proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you. Anyone else want a word in connection with Article 5 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups, NSI, SLS and DeSUS? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. However, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anyone want a word in connection with this article and the two amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me, colleague Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. All the halls are hailed again! In view of the fact that I have listened in the previous articles to an interesting debate, which has been brought together and went in the direction of how to be competitive, how to behave marketly, it seems to me that this article provides and says that the words "only for its members" are deleted in the second paragraph. I must say that the purpose of the amendment, which is to allow newly established chambers of commerce established under this law to carry out their duties not only for their members but also for other economic operators who will not be members of the said chambers. It is precisely this amendment that will allow all these chambers to now be engaged and will think mainly competitively, market-drivenly and to pursue some economic logic. I believe that, despite the positive forecasts of the government of this Chamber, they can in some way be quite strong enough to accumulate their experience, which will then somehow be able to combine these experiences with other economic operators, so it seems to me that this amendment calls for those who will not be members to have the same opportunities as those who are members. I hope that this amendment to Article 6 will be supported, however, by listening to you, by the opposition Members in the previous articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Comrade Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	I will only briefly support the amendment to Article 6, because I simply do not understand why we should restrict cooperation, why we should exclude someone, why we should only refer to each other and not to others. I think it would be better if this openness, this cooperation and some partnership were encouraged rather than limited. And the first amendment to Article 6 is more open here than the second one, so I will give my vote for this first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Kosem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The Government supports the amendment to Article 6 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups to delete the word 'exclusive' in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda of the 32nd item, or at the latest at 21.20 a.m. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE MEDIA LAW. I would like to inform you that a total time of debate is set for 5 hours and 10 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Among us, I also welcome Minister Vask Simoniti and give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on media, i.e. the novelties of the media law. When preparing the starting point of the draft amendment to the Media Law, one of our main aims was to ensure conditions for media pluralism. The new media law allows for a much easier and better review of media plurality. Ensuring media pluralism is not the only major change brought about by the amendment of the Media Law. The new law provides, inter alia, better protection for children and minors, while we believe that the amendment does not affect editorial autonomy, since it is clearer than it has been established so far that the right to correction also includes the right to state the other facts and circumstances by which it contests and substantially complements the indications of notification. The new Media Act, which is now in line with the European Union's legal order and with amendments to telecom legislation, also better protects Slovenian language, sets out the minimum share of Slovenian music in the daily broadcasting time of radio programmes, specifies the tasks of the postal and electronic communications agency and the broadcasting board. It is also coordinated with legislation regulating access to information of a public nature, copyright and related rights and with the new law on offences. The bill received very broad debates and public confrontations from very different opinions, much more than a number of other legislative changes since the introduction of the bill to the government last year. The first presentation of opinions, i.e. public debates, took place on 9 March 2006, and the first consideration of the proposal for a new media law was on 29 March 2006. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Sport discussed the proposal on 10 May this year and adopted the following amendments at the meeting. The amendment to Article 3 introduces minor changes in the existing Article 4 so that the importance of public interest in the field of media is clearly and comprehensively defined and establishes the general commitment of the State to ensure not only in principle but also financial support for this purpose. The amendment to Article 4 provides for a new formulation to ensure that the budget item provides the level of resources for programmes of particular importance corresponding to 3% of the amount of the RTV Slovenia contribution selected in the previous year. The composition of the expert commission, in which there can no longer be a conflict of interest, is further defined. The amendment follows the reasoned comments of the Commission on the social activities of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the press and media associations at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendment to Articles 10 and 11, which governs the right to correction, the new wording of the Article shall be amended by refusing the publication of the amendment by the responsible editor, provided that it is disproportionately longer than the notification of the particulars for which it is made or part of the notification directly applicable. The amendment to Article 17 reduced the condition for the status of local radio and television programmes to cover an area where at least 20% of the population of the Republic of Slovenia lives back to the original 10%. With the amendment to Article 18, the conditions for obtaining the status of a local radio or television programme provided that the issuer must have at least two full-time employees, increased to three workers, and that regional and non-profit programmes should have at least six full-time employees for an indefinite period of time. The amendment to Article 21 follows the provisions of the Convention on Cross-border Television, which is the basis for the further regulation of visual media in Europe, and provides that all components of television programmes should respect human dignity and fundamental human rights by way of presentation and content, and that the provisions of the directive on television without borders adopted under the Convention on Cross-border Television, which provides that Member States must take appropriate measures to ensure that television broadcasts broadcast by organisations under their jurisdiction do not contain programmes which could seriously harm the psychological, mental or moral development of children and minors, in particular programmes containing pornography or unjustified violence. These measures should also be extended to other programmes, except where the choice of appropriate broadcasting time or any technical means ensures that minors cannot hear or see such broadcasts under normal conditions. The amendment also specifies the provision on pornographic content in printed publications, in advertisements, and in electronic publications, so that children and minors cannot see and buy it or access it. The amendment to Article 22 lays down provisions setting out the proportion of Slovenian music in radio programmes and extend it to television programmes. There is also a certain proportion of Slovenian music for programmes of special importance. The other amendments were editorial in nature and are necessary for amendments to the above articles of this Act. In view of this, we believe that the current proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Media is balanced and comprehensive and therefore suitable for confirmation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Branka Grims to present the committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. All hailing, especially the minister who managed to arrive today, was literally directly from the plane because he had a complication yesterday. So I especially congratulate him for being incredibly punctual. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, with this topic, said that the amendment of the Media Law, was discussed at its 14th regular session on 10 May 2006. The Committee was informed of both the opinion of the legislative and legal service and the record of the public presentation of opinions on the draft law, which can also be viewed by the Magnography every time by Lotus Notes, the opinion of the various bodies and organisations concerned by this topic, and the report on the state of human rights in Slovenia, which was given by the US Foreign Ministry and which the Committee has already considered, in which the Ministry specifically warns that the media in Slovenia are free, active and did not represent the whole spectrum of opinions and therefore are not plural. We have therefore been able to take all of this as a starting point and, in particular, to rely on comments from the public presentation of opinions that were very valuable. I will therefore mention only some of the amendments adopted. The amendments were almost 60, of which more than half, 37, were also adopted by the Committee in the second reading and are already included in the text before you. Only a small part, i.e. 12, rejected them, while others were either withdrawn or doubled because in some proposals there was an obvious high level of consensus, as both the different parties' positions and the opposition made identical proposals. One of them specifically reflected, namely, the deletion of an article or a provision allowing an answer or correction to be exceptionally longer than the original article, if this was necessary in order to state additional facts by which an individual, i.e. the victim of a misrepresentation in a medium, would justify his denial. This part is now lined up and, as the Minister has already said, this may also be the reason for the legitimate rejection of the request for correction. This has also certainly removed the only comment that could be relevant from the media which has warned that, perhaps with the very extensive application of these provisions, there could be difficulties in the design of the media. However, such a sure thing cannot happen with this amendment. My personal opinion, however, is that the whole mechanism that is now being introduced into the law will work so that things will be checked much more and so much less apply to the right to correction, which will not be justified and will not be necessary. What has already been mentioned and would also point out is that the law also provides for funds for media pluralisation. This is also in some way a response to both the comments from the public presentation and the report on the state of human rights in Slovenia, the US Foreign Ministry, in a work where it reminds us of the lack of plurality of the media. That's exactly what these funds are for. While there was quite a few debates here, which I personally find rather strange, I hope that it will not happen again today. Some strongly opposed the provisions that required that journalistic ethics be respected, so that information is given, which is comprehensive, which is illuminated by different priority angles. However, I would point out that access to such information is in fact a constitutional right based on the fundamental principles of the Slovenian Constitution. The mockery or denial of this right means opposition to that democratic foundation that enables democracy to function as a whole. With these amendments, which have been adopted in the Committee's second reading [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Involved, I believe that the law is a good basis and that it certainly deserves reception and will contribute very well to the better functioning of the entire media area in Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 15th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We will therefore turn to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5. this year, marked "new". I will therefore put to the debate all the articles to which the amendments are submitted, namely Article 3, Article 8, Article 13 and Article 45. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the three amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I ask the debaters to tell at the beginning of their debate what amendment their debate is on. Who wants a word? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have decided to table an amendment to the supplementary proposal for a media law after the first review of the law has actually been made, when a public presentation of opinions has been prepared and after several hours of consideration of the law on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport has been carried out, because, in our opinion, the justified proposals of the section for most of the Committee's participants have not been acceptable, and thus the article I am talking about does not, in our opinion, have the form that it should have with regard to our understanding of some of the fundamental concepts with which we are continuously operating without telling us how we define these concepts. Since we cannot even unify ourselves as to what the actual effect of the public presentation of opinions and the first reading has brought, it is necessary to say, in particular, that the amendment of the Social Democrats, which is covered by the amendment of the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is not important how many amendments have been adopted and rejected, but which amendments have been adopted and rejected as well as how much the profession has had the opportunity to influence the final form of the text. And our amendment follows established experts, European recognised experts in the field of media, media regulation, where plurality can be understood as can be seen from most of the European Union and Council of Europe documents. The pluralisation of the media and the plurality of the media is not a term associated with the representation of the ideas of the political spectrum from left to right, but with pluralism and pluralisation linked to ownership and the media market. And that's what the amendment says at the beginning, so it doesn't typically use a political dictionary, but it uses terminology, which is also taken into account in the law on public interest in culture, which we understand in Social Democracy, even as it does when we deal with the public, often happens. In view of the fact that we understand the public, as a footnote and as a non-numbered self-existence, that we always hear the expression of the public, which means that we do not view the public as a single phenomenon, but that we are aware that this public also has specific interests, different groups, and that the task of the media is also to cover this diversity, which is reflected in the diversity that appears in the various media media messages, and that I am thinking of the print and electronic media, as two fundamental groups, and that, of course, I also think, as regards the treatment, the wider treatment of media themes, at least from a European perspective, it is also an attempt to monitor globalisation from that point of view, which, on one side of the globalisation process, is trying to find some minimum standards for the comparability of phenomena in different countries, but also allowing the national media to see, as an attempt, to monitor the globalisation of the opinion of the media, which is based on its own group, which is based on its own opinion, on that it is also on that it is also on the matter. If we look at our amendment from this point of view, of course, the most important thing for me is that the amendment fully introduces the expression of public interest. Instead of words that are, as it is said, from another dictionary, which are of course very important and which are also supported by the public interest in this text, as it is said, there is a public interest as defined in the law on public interest in culture. If our amendment, which is in many ways similar to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, follows, you see that it refers to the very area which has had the largest or most numerous comments in the public debates so far, because it also concerns the issue of financing. In the case of budgetary resources, we believe that the allocation of budgetary resources should in fact be more precisely defined than in the current text. This is followed by an amendment to those guidelines of comparable European countries looking for those media that are in need of specific social concerns due to globalisation and modern life-style. This amendment therefore first introduces a group that provides a system of incentives for print media with particular care. There is no secret that the print media is facing a decline in the number of readers, so incentives are given to those media that are not central media, but special concerns are attached to the plurality of the media space. These are those printed media that do not reach over-average costs or cover particularly deficient areas. It is similar with electronic media, so it seems to us that this amendment could also be supported by those who look at things differently, because this amendment, as we say, holds a professional opinion. I hope that further discussion will prove that this view is consistent, that it accurately defines all those groups and types of media which, in our view, should receive public support or support from public funds, on the basis of the call for proposals and clearly set criteria, this is from budgetary resources, and in particular I note that the amendment is very extensive, because we have also given it the part that talks about the criteria under which public funds are distributed. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. I give my word to the Syrians.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! First of all, two comments, if you'll excuse me. I'm going to talk about three amendments that touch on media funding. My first two comments go to the report submitted by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, which he gave to the first person of the unit, and he spoke about his impressions, not about the actual event. He also mentioned that event that was not the subject of discussion on the Committee itself. At the same time, let me add that our amendment is missing in the amendment review, which the rapporteur did not mention. I think it was a mistake of professional service or of lapsus, namely the amendment to Article 13. I hope we get him in a new review of the amendments soon. Our amendment has failed. Since the report was given in a way unilaterally or because it was given in the first person and about the impressions of an individual, but not the President, to complete my own impression, i.e. on the Committee on Culture, which dealt with the Media Act at the second stage, we dealt with the text from morning to late evening, in a monologue way, in the form of a monologue of the opposition, and when we did so, also with media professionals. The area was quiet, more or less concerned about the physical presence and about not escaping an unappealable amendment that might improve or alter this legal matter. I understand why. After all, you looked at us as if you were out of glass, in short, transparent. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	Mrs. Shirca, please stick to the content of Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	Because there is no law, I repeat, prepared on the basis of analysis. [[...]] But what we have seen on the committee and what we would now have touched more deeply in the amendments is the issue of funding. This is where we face the amendments. True, they are very similar to the SD and LDS amendments. We have invested them as an expertly prepared material that has emerged within the Peace Institute, which we believe is the best solution to the issue of financing media content, as the government wishes. In doing so, let me remind you that another LDS amendment, which is conceptually the same as the amendment, I call them, the Peace Institute, but underlines a slightly different approach that is withdrawing, and most importantly, the withdrawal politically, I will say, of course, I very gravely sum up this subject, the political subsidisation of the media and replaces the subsidies that are to be granted by political vats, with emphasis on cultural, scientific, educational and other professional content, which we believe to be of public interest in this area. Our basic comment, which was also the basis for the preparation and submission of our amendments to this article, which deals with funding, is that fear of losing anything, including services, can lead to controlled journalism and that the proposed subsidisation of the media, as prepared by the government, can lead to dangerous loyalty and, as a result, indirect discreditation of journalism. Of course, what I repeat is the amendment of the Peace Institute, which is the advantage of these amendments, which we have signed in the opposition, should I first focus on this first or second amendment in the review of the amendments. That is, it brings important new criteria for co-financing public interest in the field of media. Why are differences here important than those proposed by the government or government? This is about funding programme content and the difference is significant. In these amendments, the criteria for political assessment of the most controversial, regular, objective, balanced representation of the political action of the positions, in particular the positions and opposition, are missing. The criterion becomes a load, introduces criteria for single media support, breaks the monopoly of distribution by allowing co-financing of costs of postal and distribution services, introduces assistance to the media in distress, supports the possibility of supporting the development of technical infrastructure and introduces an exception to co-financing of RTV Slovenia programmes when it comes, of course, only when it comes to programmes for blind, deaf, Roma, national communities and so on. The important differences brought by this amendment, I hope that you will listen to it, but today is the last option, and the differences are also important when deciding on subsidies. 4.b Article 4 provides that the members of the Commission must be independent experts, which you have not voted on the Committee. Why is that important? Minister, the Minister will, as I have said many times, but I must repeat, in the future she will distribute one billion and a half dollars with the help of the Commission, which she will choose for herself, and on the basis of the criteria, if a government proposal is confirmed, which puts firstly a political assessment of the balance of one and the other political options. What happens despite legal regulation? A kind of invasion of political and addictive decision makers takes place. And that's dangerous. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the guardians who are brought by law, who cannot sit on this committee, are welcome. However, according to practice and experience, which we have and by the fact that we do not believe, we fear that this commission will still be politically discolored, to remind you of one example, which we also discussed on the committee, and I quoted from the publicly published decision of the Committee on Culture, the SDS parties which adopted the decision, I think that the Committee dealing with publishing is quoted as saying, "that in the commission for granting subsidies and scholarships, one member of the SDS expert council, the Committee on Culture, should be in the absence of a difficult identification of possible irregularities. In short, you are already working in the client's office on how to suggest that compatible people come to the committee. Therefore, we have insisted that in this committee, which will be very important and will make proposals to the Minister for signature, it is very important to support him, to whom to give money and to whom not to give money, in this group that they are agreed people. I admit, the experience in this area has not been very good, but you're here to do better. The second amendment, because we are still on the issue of financing, and we have also tabled it in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and also burned down on the Committee on Culture, but it is the one who better defines or withdraws, as I have already said, this political assessment of a balanced etc. reporting and representation of positions and opposition. The criteria that appear in this amendment focus on promoting cultural pluralism and diversity in the field, as I have already said, education, culture, science and similar professional themes. Allow me to stress here, however, the fundamental question which the drafters have overlooked on purpose or not, or perhaps not addressed in depth enough. And the fundamental question is the question that arises in the case of the provision of opinional diversity, at least the position of the provision of media autonomy, is to what extent the state can determine what and how to report. In fact, the question is whether it is permissible for regulatory policy to intervene in this area even under the assumption that this ensures the diversity of ideas and opinions that exist in society. The question is delicate. What has been heard many times today, and which has been repeatedly emphasized that there has been sufficient time to discuss this law, I say again, has not been sufficient or has not been sufficiently professionally justified. Is it not also an autonomous editorial decision not to report on certain issues and not to include certain opinions? Who will determine which issues in society are important to the public or what balanced reporting means? The legislator or the editor? This is a question that I am answering to myself that is the meaning of regulatory policy, that is to say, subsidising the diversity of ideas and opinions only in the way that they define the content that the media do not offer because of market orientation or their presence in space, in the media landscape, socially, politically, culturally and globally. Otherwise, there is no doubt that there is a potential for a large degree of subjective decision when it comes to categorisation of media content solely according to political or ideological orientation. I would ask that in this assembly of amendments, which are essential or very important for this law, you should once again imagine and perhaps take into account an opinion that comes not only from the MPs but also from experts in the Slovenian space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you. I am obliged to make an explanation for your second statement, which was not correct. As President of this paragraph, I said that we are moving to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2006 with the symbol 'new'. I ask you to listen carefully to Members and Members, especially when you intend to unwarrantedly criticize them. I read the amendments in numbers below, including the amendment with number 13, which you said I did not mention either. Please, tomorrow when the tape is written to review my words and your accusation, which was not correct. We continue the debate. I give my word to my colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is right that there is much debate on the media law, but first I will be very correct and concrete. We're talking about amendments. I don't know who wrote it down on page 3, if we're looking at the same review of the amendments, Chairman, you said on page 23.5., notes on page 4. The amendments referred to in points 1 and 2 are essentially the same, it is different and so on, if the amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 are irrelevant. If you, colleagues and colleagues and professional services, have examined this very carefully and compared it with the definitions of the articles that we are today amending, forgive, the claims are, excuse me, stupid. These articles, which say that amendments are the same if accepted, others are not, are so different that it is impossible to obtain such a paper with such claims at all. Please, as a warning to the professional services, whoever is responsible for this, I don't think it's possible to have us as fools. See all of you very precisely what is the eleventh paragraph of Article 4a under, for example, the amendment under number 1, and what is the eleventh paragraph of Article 4a in the amendment under point 3 or 4. If that's the same, then I'm the Pope. But I won't talk about it. This is mockery from Members of Parliament. Second, as far as these amendments are concerned, another warning. All the elements listed in the hard form of the law have been converted into a questionnaire in the amendment to 90% of the hard form, without any substantive changes. This is not an amendment to me, if we're serious. If I write someone to do something, and I'm making an amendment, or if they do something, it's not an amendment. And please, come on, colleagues and colleagues, take matters seriously. And whoever wrote down what was written in the amendments, I apologize, was very flawed, if not already - I will not use the term because it is not worthy of this national assembly. This is a joke from this national council. And please see very carefully each paragraph of each proposed amendment in Article 4a, because it is essential, in this first part. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, however, I will touch on the amendment to Article 8. I believe that the purpose of the amendment is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Mr Barovic, there are 3rd and 3 amendments to the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy Club and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Excuse me, Mr President, I understand that you opened the debate on Articles 3, 8 and 45. That's how I understood you. If that's not the case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Comrade Barovic, there is Article 3 in the debate, so I will allow you to discuss this only in conjunction with Article 3. We will talk about Article 8 when we are done with the debate on Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Once again, I understand you've opened all the articles, so I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	You've got it all wrong. Thank you. Regarding the matter raised by colleague Bogdan Barovic, the note in the amendment review is the work of the secretary of the committee. In this case, I will ask the chairman of the committee to report on the immateriality of individual amendments. Until then, we will continue with the debate, which is that of colleague Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	I apologize, but some urgent clarifications had to be given to the respected colleague Tarchoon. I agree with this and would support the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. To what she said, I think it's very analytical, colleague Majda Shirtz, to add a few more thoughts. It seems to me that this is a really great illusion if the state is somehow trying to ensure the political plurality of the media by increasing the level of its intervention in these media. However, the level of its intervention in the media increases by giving certain support, subsidies or whatever we call it, in order to increase political plurality. In fact, the country, clearly, will first obviously spend taxpayers' money, which is never too much, and secondly, it will create, whether will or will not, rather than unwillingly, a situation in which the media will try to be least friendly to the government, because the country is always a government, one such or another. They will want to be friendly to the government, why would they blame themselves for any smallness of government, if there is, on the other hand, an option, a willingness to get some money for political pluralisation. I am talking mainly about the political pluralisation of the media. The state could do much more for the independence of the media, especially for their political independence, by not losing a single tolar. That is, very simple, with advice that is simple: step away from ownership, withdraw from conversations, speculations, deals, sales and not sell shares in such companies, with your own, I would say, friendly or related investment companies. Get away from these backstage calculations, get away, say you don't want anything to do with it, and don't have anything to do with it, and don't waste a tolar. The press will do the rest on their own. A journalist who reports in favour of one option will always find a journalist who can report more favourably or from the perspective of another option, but people will create an opinion for themselves and create it by getting cross-information. I don't believe in something you like to talk about, the balance of the media. There is never a balance between the media and the balance of the media. The media has always wanted unwittingly on one side, perhaps more than the other. They may sometimes try to show the other side, but they do know a red thread. That's one thing. The other thing is whether the media space allows or does not monopolize it with state subsidies by allowing a completely different approach, a completely different story. I think you've got the pluralization of the media, as far as it takes, from the beginning, wrong, wrong. That is why I support this LDS amendment, because it is, I will not say very critical, because it is less bad than yours, because it simply does not concern itself with political pluralisation aside, talking about supporting and developing new media, about as, not roughly, but exactly as colleague Majda Shirca mentioned. I think it's better for all of us if we have to, if we're going this way, if this is a real option, at least let's accept this explanation. With this law, which I know well enough, but I haven't been actively involved with it, I would just say, I would read the first part of paragraph 4a again. Article 3 of this Article, where you have a syntagmo, "State support in achieving public interest in the media." Your Honor, Minister, this syntagma will make you immortal in the political history of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to Vice-President Péčet for having presided over the session so far. And we are continuing the debate. I invite you to the word of Mr. Mir Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Since it has been said that we are talking about the amendments tabled, I will be discussing the amendment of the LDS and the SD. Article 1(2) I am disturbed by this fifth paragraph, which says: "The invitation to tender for the co-financing of public interest in the field of the media may be entered by publishers of a general information logbook with less than 50,000 sold copies per day, generally informative weeks with less than 8 thousand sold copies per week, etc." I think that this is in some way discriminatory and such a restriction is breaking Article 4 of this Act, which states in paragraph 5: "The Republic of Slovenia supports the media in creating the dissemination of programme content which is important for the realization of the rights of citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide, members of Slovenian national minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary, Italian and Hungarian national communities etc. I think that this article could also include the largest Slovenian journals and informational - political weeks, monthlys or magazine press. Indeed, this article was able to find that market niche for all media distribution financing. In particular, I mean the distribution of Slovenian press in substitution. Today, if you go to Gorica, Trieste or Celovec, you will find it very difficult to find any Slovenian journal or Slovenian magazine on the day of the outcome. But you can buy all the world's journals and world magazines, right on the day of the end. There is no older thing in this world than an old newspaper one day, and I think our natives deserve a daily and fresh Slovenian press and I think that this fourth article brings this niche and allows the country to co-finance the distribution of the diary and the rest of the magazine in place. I think that this is extremely important for the preservation of identity, and in this way we would also spread the Slovenian media landscape to neighbouring countries. Indeed, these journals, which are now on the Slovenian market, are quite profitable, have a large return on capital, and perhaps because of this they do not care much about what happens in substitution and do not have, simply do not have a financial interest to distribute Slovenian diaries in substitution. In this way, the state could jump across from them, and I think the benefit would be mutual. So the Slovenian marketman could sit down for coffee on Saturday morning, list Il Piccolo, the Maritime Diary, and also buy Evening, Work or Dnevnik in the neighbouring kiosk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek is next. I'm sticking to the list that my colleague Pece left.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Look, I'm going to take a look at the proposals of the Peace Institute for Article 4a of this Act or Article 3 or a new Article 4a of this Act. As soon as the colleagues explained what the Peace Institute had prepared for them, we were granted, I would say, insults and profanity. And from the same mouth as yesterday's pleadings came to allow in the constitutional change regarding immunity in every way the possibility of immunity being taken from them in the case of insults, from the same mouth today come insults, that the Members watched them "glass" on the committee - I wasn't there - etc. It's an insult, it's a spread of impatience, and I don't know where that leads. What does "glassy look" mean, I don't know exactly. But I once read one of the recognized psychoanalysts who wrote that in women it's sometimes caused by frustration. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Mr Jerovšek, third time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	with an emotional and intimate life, a glassy look. [[...]] And so much at the beginning. But I would say that, of course, I am very handicapped in comparison with the Members of these two parliamentary groups, because in the 10 years of my work, there were many debates about media laws, and although I have been in opposition for eight years, to me or to our party, the Peace Institute, which was a richly funded country forever, has never put on the table proposals, or drafts, or implementation plans, how to resist the country. Once upon a time, I am grateful to two colleagues for saying in such a transparent, benevolent manner that the Peace Institute had been an extremely government institution long ago, working for the propaganda of government programmes, and which has worked deliberately to destroy the opposition and democracy in this country, and this function has in fact been held, the real function of the fight against democracy. And these amendments are in the role of fighting democracy in the media. There's no doubt about that. And some are apparently considered, as mentioned, to be immortal, that these institutions are immortal, as has already been said here, and that the integrity of the media will be the eternal legality of the Slovenian media space. I must say that unfortunately, the Peace Institute has made amendments that are prepared to be a Trojan horse in the media field to enforce retrograde views on media plurality, which would allow you to relive, in my opinion, Stalinistic methods in the media space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Mr Jerovšek, I'm sorry to bother you, but this article and the amendment alone reads, "financing of programming content..."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Please hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	That's what I'm talking about, but, of course, you need to open up a little fog and see what's in this thing. Indeed, these peace institutes and these para-institutions, which were so successfully established in the 12 years of the previous authorities, have very rich experience and are successful in how to make a law so that it will not serve the benefit of democracy, but for completely other narrow purposes, how to manage the media space. All I have to say is that such extensive amendments as these are ready for the two opposition parties would, of course, be expected to be prepared by at least one of the two most powerful opposition parties for such amendments. But of course it's "come to be," if you can order them, the state pays this, still pays and they make you at some institute. They are a step backwards, but they are a step back from what has been voted on by the committee on financing, on ensuring public interest and on this. They're fine-tuned, but they're one step back. Such steps back away from the public interest, away from ensuring the actual public interest in co-financing, cannot be supported; this cannot be confirmed. It is sad that these two other parties are first dealing with how to prevent media pluralisation. Yesterday, in his explanation, Comrade Terchon said that only what we order from these benches was published on television. I don't know if Comrade Terchon didn't publish them, looked at yesterday's journals, then he found out yesterday that we didn't order anything because they were published and we're ordering poorly, and that's from now on, from now on we're gonna call it "Terchon's Rule". But Tarchoon's rule under the new TV law doesn't apply, that's a fact. There is no target rule, but there was a Tarchoon rule before, under the LDS. At that time, journalists took into account and had to take into account editors what they ordered in LDS, which was what they ordered on television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Mr Jerovšek, "ad rem, ad personam", please and thank you very much. Of course I'm surprised that we have a relatively small number of replicas, we have three replicas, I'll read - Mrs. Shirca, mag. Majda Potter and Dr. Gantar. However, Mr Terčon can only apply to the debate because you have not discussed and you cannot have a replica, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that we begin with Mrs Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I am pleased that the government has literally copied those solutions that have been proposed for you by the disputed peace institution, those solutions that touch on the issues of pornography and excessive violence to the happiness of some others, I understand why, because we have enough analysis, they are engaged in an in-depth not only analysis of Slovenian media space, but also follow what is happening in the world. Here the government is to be commended and unfortunately did not fully listen to these peacekeepers who are signed with the right names and also come from elsewhere, not only from the Institute, because they are experts. Secondly, to clarify: "be like glass" means, Mr. Jerovšek, that you don't see anyone you're meant to be looking through. But it can also mean you don't hear it, but it's some river that comes out of Italian terminology "see come di vitro"; "you're like glass" means you're not seen and you're not hearing what I borrowed from my neighborhood. Second. Mr Friday, if you'll allow me just a sentence for a solution that you say is not okay with the solution given by the Peace Institute regarding the impossibility of co-financing the press at the Slovenians outside our borders. It is this amendment that gives this opportunity, while the government's solutions here do not give it. One in the field of electronic media is called RTV Slovenia, the other also when it speaks, which criteria the Commission must take into account if it is to subsidise certain media. And it is understandable that they gave priority to national, language and other areas. At the same time, it brings something that unfortunately the government does not bring, and when the hottest discussions were on this - remember, it was these famous six requirements when you wanted to implement a fund for media pluralisation, which, by the way, is nothing different than what's here, just that it's a budget funding not for the word and the dictates of the fund - but then they started - and it's right to have started - discussions about what media financing means. And that's why he got out of the room. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Mrs. Shirca, time for the replica is up, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Yeah, well, he got rid of it right away and found out how they work abroad to help the media. [[...]] And many countries subsidize distribution, give discounts on postal services, and these are the mechanisms where you can also help those you spoke about, and the government is unfortunately not saving them, the Peace Institute, the opposition with the three amendments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Again, I would like to point out that the replica is limited to three minutes, so that we cannot automatically measure time, I have to do it, which is a more ungrateful role, but you can always apply for a debate indefinitely within the time available. Now it's mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, I know that it is necessary to have a certain weight, probably, for you to notice that someone exists. But I'm protesting that you're always talking about me in double, which shows you're not able to spot me because you always mention me in connection with my colleague, Shirca. However, it might be good for someone in this room to realize that there is no offense if you express different political views and this is especially important in the context of the law we are talking about. Those who so miss plurality and understand it only as political plurality, it is difficult to convince me that it is up to you if you question it or attribute it to my statements that I have made as an explanation for the amendment. Accurate reading of the magnetogram will show whether I have uttered any insult or not. However, it is an offensive way for some members of the SDS Group to act towards Members. This is an insult, and this is a hateful speech and I would like to avoid continuing the stories that have been dragged into this hall for one year in one form or another, with such or other allusions. And now just two more explanations. The comments of the Peace Institute as proposals for amendments were addressed to all members of the Committee and were received by members of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, and the matter of their assessment was whether they had taken them into account or not. And a second comment. To claim that the Peace Institute is a state institution is an insult because, at least at this point, Mr Simoniti may have recalled that he had been at a ministerial conference before the time at which the representatives of the Peace Institute were represented by NGOs from the Council of Europe and as a rapporteur. This is said to be confirmed by my assertions that these are experts who are recognised in the European space, that I say experts in this case, and that they recognize the non-governmental character. But if I haven't mentioned the name, it's not because I respect that the honourable lady is not in this room and she can't say anything for herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. One last replica, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would quickly like to correct the wrong statement of my colleague Jerovska when he spoke of immortality. I didn't mean the immortality of the Peace Institute, but I did point out that certain syntagms could be classified as the immortal minister of our culture. But I didn't go that far, and I hope the Minister won't blame me, so he can predict that the Minister will also become an institution in addition to immortality. I didn't go that far. I wasn't even talking about the Peace Institute. As far as the Peace Institute is concerned - I would quickly say that this qualification, that the Peace Institute fights democracy consistently and entrenchedly; this qualification, respected colleague, should be corrected for this institution to fight democracy and labour self-governance. If I said such a qualification, we would also understand when such statements and such definitions are included. However, very briefly: I am satisfied with some of the events in the media space. The RTV programming world, which I have criticized so much, has to stand down. He has adopted a programming plan with which he disagrees and is therefore the opposition itself, if I may read in the newspaper, and predicts the exciting course of events, so only something is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, you know we don't put replicas on the replica, but I wrote you down as a debater. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, but a replica to the replica. Mr. Gantar didn't have a discussion, he had a replica. You know how it says in the Rules of Procedure that you don't read articles. So I would ask that we now return from the side track to Article 3 and the amendments. My word, Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	In view of all that has been said, this also requires some serious answers. First, what was the effect of the public debate as well as the consideration at the meeting of the Committee. That we have included a number of things in the second phase, which was not in the basic text, and we have certainly improved the text. In this context, we have confirmed on the committee, not the government, but on the committee, some amendments - in some cases it was a literal copy - submitted by the Peace Institute. We did this for a number of reasons: because we thought they were following the objectives of the law correctly, and also as a gesture, because we wanted to stress that we want to take very different opinions into account in the drafting of such an important law, which governs the area that is the basis of democracy. We have taken into account practically everything that could reasonably be incorporated into the law, regardless of who proposed it. Some things that are happening again today, however, could not be taken into account. One of them, in my opinion, is an expertly inadequate proposal to limit the right to stand for media pluralisation funds with, say, the number of copies a particular medium has. You know, it's written on the current state. This situation may change at any time. I hope those who prepared this did not just have a list of the titles of individual magazines and daily newspapers in front of them and wrote it in these cases. But even if they did it in principle, such an approach is, in my firm opinion, wrong. There's foreign capital coming, you know, the media scene is changing, and things that might seem great to us right now, the question of whether they'll make sense in a while. So let's say the law lays down the principles. We have tried to follow them, including with the amendments, the principle that it should be preferred that plurality should be preferred, that new newspapers should be preferred, those that operate and cover specific areas, special groups. All of this is covered in very detail in these criteria. And what is essential and also follows the European directives, all procedures will be transparent, they will be public, they will be public calls, in the part where public interest is concerned. The public interest enshrined in our Constitution is based on the fundamental principles of the Constitution that every citizen, every citizen, every citizen of the country of Slovenia has every moment the right, constitutional right, to correct, comprehensive information, illuminated from different value angles. And if it ever happens that he's the victim of misreporting, he's also the right to correction. Up to here, it's completely simple. And that's also why we can't support those amendments that some of you have tabled. However, I must say that I understand this part as a corrective attempt, but I can less as a corrective attempt assess what it is - but now I will be very direct, because the lady was also quite direct before - did the LDS, which directs the entire resources to the media in the fields of culture, science and research, education and other areas of expertise. See, even the U.S. foreign ministry reminds us that the key problem of Slovenian media is that they do not tolerate the whole spectrum of opinions, they are saying the whole spectrum of political opinions; therefore they are not plural enough. And when we propose funds for the pluralisation of the media, which - I emphasised - are aimed at the weaker, which are aimed at different media, these funds should quickly be diverted to professional literature, for which there are completely different sources, which we all know well and within other ministries. This is, I'm sorry, purely ordinary babalina teasing and such an amendment cannot be taken seriously in my firm belief, because even in my firm belief it was not so meaningful, but it is intended to raise the dust, and it is not worth supporting. What I would like to stress in particular, and I think that the President-in-Office should then stop the lady who did this, is manipulation. This, however, is the manipulation of one of the objectives set out on the website of one of the SDS Committees. Exactly the same is true of the same lady at the committee meeting, where she is very insulting about her colleagues, and what I am about to repeat was also said there. This is a principle goal that was written by one of the informal bodies, if it is achieved, they will try to do it if it is not, nothing bad; but manipulate and interpret it in this way, you know, I'll show it at a slightly different level. This is exactly the same as if the LDS had written in its programme to win the next election, which, by the way, in the performances of Mrs Shirca, as you have in the last days, will not happen by any chance, thank God. But then someone would show up and interpret it like this: "Yeah, we already know that the LDS wants to win the elections so they can totally take over all the pores of power and then share the money with each other." This is exactly the same interpretation you gave for this poor side of SDS. I mean, if we go to such a low level of political communication, we don't wonder if the reputation of the entire national assembly is so poor. However, I must say, on the other hand, I am extremely pleased that you have specifically expressed your satisfaction that you think it is quite right, Mrs Shirca, that the media do not report on certain issues and opinions at all. That seems perfectly normal to you. I'm sorry, but that doesn't seem perfectly normal to me. However, it seems to me that journalistic ethics and even the Slovenian Constitution are written in such a way that it is always necessary to show things in a comprehensive way and that unilateral presentation or even systematic omission of certain of these is the basis of information as the basis of democracy. And that, Mrs Shirca, is the impurity that we are now reminded of even the US Foreign Ministry in the report on the state of human rights in Slovenia; and that seems normal to you. I must say that, of course, it is not possible to understand this differently from the gesture of the one that is satisfied with the media; only those who are completely controlled by the media can be satisfied. The matter is clear! Now, for the last time, you've been close to me before -- and not for the first time in the last days -- very personal. Look, I have to say that I do not agree with what one of my colleagues has said before, and I think it is important to take into account that you are clearly very traumatized because you have lost the RTV referendum and now you are the target of such and different perceptions as well - to your sending group because you do not think that it is not being heard in public. But I must warn you that being traumatized may explain your actions, your violations of the rules of procedure, your insults in recent days, but in no way excuses him. And please, let's talk about things and not more about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	I fully agree with you, Mr Grims, and the proof that I am at least trying to measure the debate with the same vat is that I did not stop you when you discussed the person. But it is true that such a debate necessarily provokes a replica. Now she's got a replica of Mrs. Shirca, then someone else will want it. The contents of the amendments and the articles themselves will blow up. Once again, I ask and point out that we should discuss the article and the amendments. Mrs. Shirca has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	The media must make absolutely their own decisions on what they report, and the regulation must not limit them in doing so, that was my message. A second replica of that part of the thinking that is the criteria for funding printed media. The criteria can only be a certain deficit and a certain public interest, but not a political definition; in addition to those that should necessarily remain in this law and remain neglected in the debate so far and also in the legal dictatorship, this is the implementation of the European Union directive, which has created a media law in general in a way that included subsidising the content that the European Union requires of its members. This is that they publish a certain share of their own and European production in electronic media and audiovisual content and that they ensure that independent producers develop so that a certain monopoly does not occur, this is a European directive. While the law still retains it, somewhere at the end of Article 36, it is separate from all the funding published in Article 4. This needs to be taken care of by the state, not what the media will write and what they don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. For a better feeling I will read which debaters and debates I currently have on the list - Zalokar Orazem, Uhan, Bevk, Terčon, Jerovšek, Sok and Barovič, which does not mean that this list is limited. Now Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I would first go back to the content, I think we've been quite out of date in the last few moments, and I would say once again, we're talking about amendments to an article that talks about how the State of Slovenia, with State support, will try to achieve public interest in the media by means of financial resources from the budget. I will take as my starting point the cover of one of yesterday's daily media, where desperate is a foreigner who is connected or is the President of the administration of one of the companies which has quite a large ownership stake in the Slovenian Dnevnik. Since we Slovenians are known to believe in strangers more than we do, I'll take this as a starting point. Here he says that Mr Horst Pirker, who is the president of the Styrie administration, has quite a headache. And what's bothering him? It is disturbing that politicians in Slovenia increasingly control the media. This is the starting point. How this finding by someone I think we can believe that he sees it well and sees it in Slovenia goes in the context of it. In short, politicians in Slovenia are increasingly in control of the media. I say that the amendment or this article, because I know that the amendments will not be accepted, but the article will be the one the government has envisioned will increase. I think Mr Pirker's headache is going to be even bigger, because this article, I think it's totally "mom". First, about the finances. The country, I think, has made a very generous decision regarding the resources it will devote to this public interest, which is expected to be realized in the media: a billion 400 million. I am sorry that I know that this has also happened in the past - people need to be explained what is a billion 400 million for the so-called public interest in the media. On Monday, I asked and received an answer that there is not a tolar in Slovenia for unprotected railway crossings, nor a tolar, this topic has no place in the 2006 budget; I can say that the calculation shows that 140 prisoners could have for this money. 140 prisoners could be bought! Or given the tables that have been rolling down our tables, including the parliamentary and other media tables, for some time now - we could buy about 70 operating tables, at that low price, not by the one with the big commissions. In short, it is a large amount, and I therefore think that we must be very sensitive in Parliament to whom and in what way, especially given that we are giving it to the media, how we are actually going to start this amount as a state, or put it on the basis of some commissions and criteria in the media. And these are the very criteria and criteria on which this Commission, which will be appointed by the government, by the Minister, I think it will be very controlled, I don't think it has the right criteria. I think that there are people in Parliament who represent very different interests; in the first place, of course, politically, and this is visible. Therefore, among the criteria, we have explicitly written only political interests, in short, not public interests, we have written that it is quite a bit, this is the first indent, especially the fact that the medium that will launch these funds will ensure that it represents political action and will take care in particular of this area. Why just politics? What about other interests? I don't think it's just the political interests of public interest. The introduction is written "public interest", then it concentrates only on political interest, everything else seduced. I think it's very problematic, because through reward, especially how someone will cover political plurality or political diversity, through this, they will be able to receive or not receive state money. What about other public interests, what about culture, what about science, what about ethics? Last but not least, what about the religious? Or, given what we have been watching on television on Sunday - I expect that in terms of plurality from now on in Slovenia we will also see on public television the embodiment of evangelical bishops and perhaps a Buddhist leader for Slovenia and others - I think we have more than 100 different religious groups reported. In short, it's plurality for me. Of course, that's not the point. The main objective is to reward political plurality. And it seems that the political plurality that we can already see in some of the already balanced journals today shows that this will also make sure that this will not result in this balance in other areas. In short, I think that, through emphasising exclusively this interest of ours, otherwise political - it is probably normal for political parties to enforce it through the National Assembly - that it will go to the detriment of all other pluralities, if I say so, and it is not right for us to speak so little about these other pluralities in Parliament. Of course, the goal is - and I will return to the starting point: politicians will be more closely monitored by the media. I think this is the goal and this is the last law in the context of the takeover of Slovenian media. I think the story will end at any time, but we can monitor the results every day through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-welcome minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will talk about Article 3 or the amendment to Article 4a and Article b. It was clear from the explanation given by the amendments' proponents, both the LDS and the SD, that amendments were being tabled primarily because of the fear that it would not be fair to distribute funds, that the Commission would not be professional and that the content would only be politically financed - at least something like that. That there will be controversial financing of media content, that political government funding, that journalism will be controlled, that this will result in the dangerous loyalty of journalists and that criteria of critical judgment, etc., will disappear from this law. In short, one doubt about this law and this allocation of funds. I think you've always been under the influence of the previous media commission, which shared the money it was intended for, because at the time it was really controversial, because the presidency of the media commission was carried out by a person who was also the director of the local radio, and that is not to say, a political official's time, perhaps still. I may be naive, as a journalist in a local newspaper mentioned, or living in a just environment, because I believe that resources will be shared fairly. I hope they will, and I have no doubt that I could not. I hope the Minister doesn't make that mistake and make the expert committee as he used to be. We have also written in the law that there will be an expert commission that will share the money that will be shared on the basis of the realization of the public interest in culture, and at the same time we have written down who can be a member of this expert commission. However, I am pleased that in the new law, those media with the status of local, special, student importance who were previously unable to obtain these funds under the old law or were to be financed from public RTV contributions for some time. We have also regulated and implemented this law with this article, and we have also allocated 40% of these funds from the budget. It is not true that we will only support content that will report objectively on the political functioning in Slovenia, but also content that will ensure the quality, originality, communication and currentness of the author's treatment. The average number of copies sold, such as printed media, will also be taken into account. Because a party has just set a limit on how much or who should be entitled according to the number of the loads, which seems to us to be unjustifiable. In addition, for example, projects that are supposed to have a particular importance for the development of Slovenian culture, language, importance for the preservation of Slovenian national and cultural identity and so on. In short, this line is large and is not just political content. But it is also this, because we know what our media are reporting first, that there is a whole page on the functioning of politicians in Del. We just want this to be balanced and there are other content that has the right to run and will be co-financed. Therefore, it seems to us that this Article 3 is well defined in the new law and we will not support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Allow me to commend you, because the last two debates have finally brought us back to the first track, to Article 3, and to the amendments. This is how the subject is discussed. Thank you for taking my warning. Now we continue the debate, and Mr Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! I will touch on the amendments to Article 3 on the financing of the programming content of the media and on who may or may not be better said to be a member of the Commission for the assessment and evaluation of projects for the financing of programme content. The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the competent minister, and it shall then be stated that they shall not be officials and Members and employees employed in State bodies, members of political party management, regularly employed with the media publisher, persons who, as external employees, have a contractual situation with the media publisher, persons having any equity and so on. Here we have two amendments, the amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, which differ in some minor shade in the 12th point. The first says that "the members of the Commission must be independent experts and must not be" and then lists. And our amendment says, "The members of the commission must not be," and then lists what I said earlier. But I am more interested than this nuance in how you will play this provision than you have played a similar provision in the law on RTV Slovenia, where it is also determined who should not be a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, its president, who should not be director of RTV Slovenia, who should not be director of television, radio, who should not be editor and so on. And then all of these are listed again, as in this article, which is now being amended. Let's see what happened. In January, he was elected president of RTV Slovenia, or Professor Stane Grand, a prominent expert and historian, who was a few months later, today Professor Stane Grand, chairman of the Ljubljana Assembly. It is no more political function this moment in the country, especially in the year of local elections, such as the leadership of the Ljubljana Assembly, which, as we can read today in Mago, will have a press conference and will present itself and, I quote: "... and they will read a manifesto together for a better Ljubljana and call for something to be done that Ljubljana will no longer be caught in provincialism to have a modern, cultural European capital." It's in the Ljubljana choir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Please, Mr. Bevk, I understand you're using [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	will connect [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Mr Bevk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	SDS, NSI and SLS and helped them find a common mayoral candidate. [[...]] This is also the main objective of this assembly for Ljubljana. And who will play a major role in the search for this joint mayoral candidate of the ruling coalition - this will be played by the current President of the RTV Slovenian Programme Council, Prof. Dr Stane Grand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Mr. Bevk, I understand you're using the analogy method, but can I finish the sentence because I'm in charge of the session? [[...]] I'm asking you to hold on, you've started well, and now he's putting a little trust in you, and I'm asking you to come back to Article 3 and the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I will. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	I'm warning everyone, to the left and to the right. It is my job to hold a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but not in accordance with any partial interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	I'll finish it, Mr. Vice President. Don't worry. The members of the commission will be appointed by the Minister. In the previous case, this went through the sieve of the National Assembly and the Programme Council. How will we ensure the proper appointment of members of this Commission in Article 3 of the Media Act? We will see after you appoint, Mr. Minister, this committee in a few months, where these members, experts, members of this expert committee will decide on what large funds will be. I hope that they will be independent, that they will not be so party-defined, that they will indeed be experts and that perhaps even the mayor of Ljubljana will not be one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, one wonders why such fundamental changes to the media law are needed, why so much attention should be paid to the public interest and, above all, to the balance of the media. Why does the ruling coalition continue to do this? I estimate that this is one final stone to round up media control in Slovenia. Why balance if the ruling coalition has completely absorbed national television? She's taken over the central log. Now, enough to watch it and read it, you don't have to explain it in particular. I think anyone reasonable will see what this is all about. But it's no wonder he's like this, it's very similar to some time back in the day, when there were a lot of pictures, or I think they were black and white back then, but they kept repeating themselves and a lot of texts. After all, one of the crucial roles of those times is one of the central committees, and one is accustomed to it, and we are concerned that verified old-time personnel come and regulate, just as it was done in the old days.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Article 3, Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Yes, since Article 3 speaks of public interest and balance, Mr Vice-President, this is what I am talking about. Don't bother me, please. Why, then, is such a struggle for balance necessary when the mainstream media have already become entrenched? There may be a falling load or an idea of a new medium that will sound new; and if the load falls, the income falls and, of course, the different options are to influence that it does not fall too much. Some through dictated advertising, and some with some budget resources to do so. Of course I wonder where my lord's border is. In order to ensure that the ruling coalition and the half-party are part of the work, there is enormous compensation for taxpayers through Mercator's takeover, as a consequence of taking over the work, a huge damage to public interest. Television is not being aired, it is simply changing leadership, and now that this is not enough, we will also be giving budgetary resources to support the media. That's not fair, that's not cheap, and that's not wise. In the end, a number of serious warnings have fallen recently, which, however you may wish to address them, have not occurred in the past. My colleague Orazmova already mentioned the President of Styria and I think that yesterday's Finance writes in a way that Styria even gave up on Slovenia, and this gentleman says that the impact of policy on the media in Slovenia is unbearable, if I have just remembered yesterday's report from Finance. Another serious warning, which has not occurred in the past, is the State Department, our very important, probably most important ally, where it says that the government has a direct influence on the media. These are real, serious warnings. But you're still talking about some media neutrality, pluralism. So, where's the end? Do you want to get all the media right or what? Is this balanced for you - if you already have the most important diary, you have the central television, it's all yours. When we are talking about the "Terchoon rule", as colleague Jerovšek said, I have really used one term and I have applied to general expressions on you, what the diary is playing, but I will really adjust, there is no Tarchoon rule, but there is probably a Jerov rule or a SDS rule because there is nothing you need to decide what will happen because there are people who already have a chip in their head who know what to report. You don't have to show them. Here at this point I am correcting; and you are right, there is your rule, colleague Jerovšek. As far as the results of the referendum are concerned. The referendum is democratic, we have said that the results are clearly expressed, although close, but, you know, for a lot of democratic decisions sometimes it turns out that it would be more useful if they were different. Let me just remind you of the trade referendum, where in the end you didn't know what to write in the marriage, and now you don't know what to do about this referendum. And it came to you as well as to us that the Constitutional Court has done what it has done - to keep the shops open on Sundays, and you don't mind because people can't go to mass and I don't know where. You don't mind! And anyone can still go where they want. And in the end. Comrade Jerovšek, you have repeatedly mentioned the Peace Institute and you seem to be very disturbed. Although I believe that you are closer to a military institution, there is no need to underestimate the role of the Peace Institute so gravely.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. That was a partial replica, though. Mr Jerovšek applied for the replica, but it is still up for discussion. So I suggest you have a debate that is not limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. First of all, my fellow Terchoon, who would also draw up some other rules, such as those he advocated yesterday and actually continued in this way today. Yesterday he said that RTV only publishes what we order today, that we bought RTV and Del and why we should still be hunting for balance. Yes, and now I would like - or even some expert analysis - to see how the government's positions, government decisions were published by these two media at the time of the Robb's government, how in the time of the Bajuk government or now the Janšev government. I must say, there has never been such a balanced and good position as the opposition has now had in the Slovenian media. She's 15 times better after expert analysis! Fifteen times more content, fifteen times more lines in the mainstream media than the opposition had in the Bajuk era or now the Yanshe government. And you're protesting it!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	Mr Jerovšek, I must also remind you of Article 3 and the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	Yeah, I'm talking now. Look, and why was it that they didn't write about the opposition before? Why? I now refer here to Article 3 concerning the members of the expert committee for the assessment and evaluation of co-financing projects. I must say - because you also wrote it down, you did not hope to get out of the bag - that there can be no person who, as external employees, enters into a contractual relationship with a media publisher or an advertising organisation who has more than 1% of the capital. You're the one who let that 1% go. But it was based on that, because that's exactly the kind of person that he was, like, Mile Shetinc. He had everything in RTV, he was in the control world, and I don't know where he was, and he was deciding about the money. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't tell me. This was huge in the past to prevent such an absurd or anomalous state that led to anomalies and anomalies. You have to admit that. That's what I'm trying to say. When it was said earlier about the Institute. Once again, I said, this institute never wrote me a debate, and I've never been in opposition for eight years, and I've advocated pluralisation and I don't know what. Now we read the debates written by these people from the Institute, who are civil and independent, and I don't know what else, but they kept the same color as they used to have. I'm glad you didn't write me this kind of discussion. If I were to read such discussions by this institute or other institutes financed by the State with state subsidies, then I would feel like a state budget failure. I would feel like a waste on the state budget to be written to me at these institutes and to read them here. Look, when the President of the Programme Council was troubled by Mr Bevk about this commission, two things seem to be disturbing his fellow Bevko. It is aware that the way in which the city of Ljubljana is managed is criminal, that it needs to be improved. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . No civilian movement, nothing can be established. Probably not a civilian move in a fox den after a new candidate. It is necessary to look among other parties who can propose something new, fresh, fair. Bevko's colleague is obviously also disturbed by the fact that the only historian who could be socially active could obviously be "Negranda", God forbid, Vasko Simoniti as a historian, that could be the minister, that's disturbing. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Yeah, times have changed. No more central committee to decide who can run for minister [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Mr. Jerovšek, please. You know what that does. Replica and additional replicas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	I must say, my colleague Gantar was very understanding for the first time, but the problem is that he still assumes that when he became Minister, he was immortal. It is not that if he becomes a member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences on the basis of his articles, he will be justifiably impatient, like the French Academy, I will admit it to him. But he did not become immortal, and that others should not say anything, and that they should be deposed of nothing. I'm not giving him that right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please. Mr. Bevk has a replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much. But the President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board, Dr. Granda, was probably not appointed to look for a right-wing candidate for the Ljubljana mayor, but to lead the RTV Slovenia Program Council. So, Mr Jerovšek, you just didn't understand the point of my performance. I'm sorry that I just pointed out Dr. Grand, who is a historian and basically a colleague of mine, but he's just in such a position, he's the President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. And as you have seen, the previous Programme President or President of the Programme Council has been involved in politics, although it has been inactive for almost 10 years and has had no function, you have been disgusted at every session and have mentioned the previous President of the Programme Council in every debate. So it seems to me that now that you have proposed Dr. Grando, there is something similar, with the difference that you will now have the President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on such an exposed function as the Ljubljana Assembly, which we can compare with the Republican Assembly, we can draw a complete equation. Mr. Janša, Prime Minister, Ministers of Bajuk, Mr. Simoniti, Mr. Sturm [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	Mr. Bevk, this is not a replica either, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Attorney General and so on. [[...]] That's why I think, Mr. Jerovšek, your observation has been depressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I won't get tired of the warnings. I reiterate that we are talking about Article 3 and the three amendments of the LDS Group of Members, and I am sure that Mr Sok, who has the next word, will take this into account. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! I will try to stick to these points, but obviously the matter is so wide that the debate is also appropriate. And then, of course, Members speak all kinds of things, and a colleague in front of me forgot to mention that this meeting cannot be compared to Forum 21, because there is something, that is where the rich gathered themselves. However, I would like to express my position on this amendment, or on the solution now envisaged in the law. I think we are discussing too much and we are looking at this fund in the light of a political instrument. I don't think that's the point either, but if we're talking about it, I can peacefully conclude as a member of the former opposition New Slovenia and today the government of New Slovenia, for example, that the LDS has subjugated virtually all power in the 12 years, and yet it has lost the election. Thus, those who try to do so must count on this fact. And I think that history repeats itself and that we have learned from history, so in this place I also expect this fund to work in this direction, as it is written in the law. Indeed, what could best be done, I think my colleague Gantar said that the state, the municipalities, would completely withdraw from any financing of the media and that this would then contribute to the pluralisation of the media, but under the question of any pluralisation. It's called pluralisation, which is dictated only by economic interests. And in such pluralisation, many media, especially those covering a local area, some rural area, would have no chance of survival, since most of these capital interests are concentrated in large and economically stronger centres. I do not see the possibility that, in such a fact, if the state and the municipality completely withdraw from co-financing, survive, I will say, our local radio, which is extremely important for our Prlecia. What's this local radio doing? It informs us of the events that happen there. What, for example, does public RTV inform us about? Yeah, not about local events. If he is already suffering something, then he tolerates, for example, the urban world in Ljubljana, where we are familiar with all the anachronisms that occur in this city municipality, I have rarely seen this television say anything about what is going on outside of Ljubljana, nor are they interested in Maribor, but mostly this environment. And in order to ensure this plurality, in New Slovenia we support such a form where the country, based on the criteria that are quite well worked out in this law, helps this medium to maintain and thus ensure that this medium continues to exist, this is what I see at this point as the meaning of this. And this is the interest of the state and citizens, if you want, in the whole area of the Republic of Slovenia. But as for other debates and the fact that politics takes control and so on, I don't know if that's the case. Sometimes I think that, in fact, all politicians are dissatisfied with media reporting, and I think that is the case. But there is another problem if citizens are not satisfied. However, this should normally work in such a way that citizens are satisfied if we are not politicians. And the media has a lot of power. Those of you who are talking today about how politics is now somehow taking over the media, but once it didn't apply, in this I see one pure conjecture. Let's say I remember the time of Demos, when every morning with Radio Slovenia greeted me, good morning poverty, good morning hunger and so on, you can all remember that journalist, still greet me every morning good morning Styria. And thank God he's doing it further, if that's what the Styrians like, to hear this voice of Lady Zei. If that were to hold what you say is that politics is so powerful and so on, then I probably wouldn't, in my opinion, think so. But it is true that our Slovenian journalists can be very servile, probably in our Slovenian genes, that we as a nation behave that way. And it kind of turns out through the press work that they know how to adapt quickly. For this, too, this pluralisation fund is a good solution to make this as little as possible. I don't want anyone to pay any attention to you because you're in a position, but if you don't, you don't. This is certainly not good for objective information and we now have the Slovenian journalism we have. On one occasion, at the seat of New Slovenia, we complained somewhat to former Ambassador Joung about the reporting, and then he responded nicely to the Slovenian response, saying, "I know, I know, the FDV." These reports, which some of you mention and so on, those who write know the facts and the reality. We will need a lot more of this mile to become a normal democratic state, because time, more than half a century, has done its part. He has also left his consequences in humans, and it will take a long time to deal with these consequences. I think that we could understand in this way and that now the composition of this commission and also the principles enshrined in this law are substantially different than they were. There's something else I'd like to say. It is completely unclear to me why the opposition is working so hard against this treaty and against the correction. If we understand the real role, for example, the opposition should, in fact, take part in this and support it with all its power. For in any case it will be of benefit to all. I imagine that mainly for the opposition, if I come from a time when we were a party in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment tabled under Article 3 of the Media Act. In this regard, I have a duty to apologize to Mr Pecchet, the Prime Minister, for I have actually heard that he has only opened point three, although I have argued that all the points are open. Secondly, I must say that the professional services have come to my attention and have clarified what I have established as questionable. They have made it clear in this sense that one of them is, but I will not now, I do not want to talk about Article 3, the political options make very superficial amendments and have made a total mess with all those who have carefully looked at these amendments. Therefore, I ask colleagues and colleagues to do what is right, although it seems very strange to me that the Rules of Procedure allow that, despite the fact that the amendment has been tabled in substance in my opinion very improperly, it can go through the procedure because it is properly and in a timely manner. Look at the leaves, and you'll see what's going on. That's what I have to say. I'm going back to the amendment to Article 3. People to this day, even though we're talking, I don't know how much time, two hours, I think, and even more, we haven't really told what this is all about. It is the amendment of Article 4a, which is the law itself, the financing of programming content. The amendment talks about co-financing of programme content and another major change has been laid down by laws talking about the provision of budgetary resources. The content of the amendments, which is essential for people, is that with amendments investors want to provide a way, so they ask and open up the question of how to share and provide resources, even though this is stipulated in the law. Today's debate on the amendment to Article 4a, which essentially speaks to the amendment, proposes how to share funds in a slightly different way than the law provides for, is, as always, exploited by both sides for political purposes. At the same time, I would say one thing, whether one side or the other, to tell each other how the government affects the media, and we all know exactly how the media influences the government and the media influences us. We are talking about them today, and we will talk about them for five hours, because we are in subjection to them, they are shaping a policy to be in the power of LDS, SLS, SDS or, more recently, SNS. It doesn't matter. They are the ones who exploit and influence and shape politics. They're the ones. The financing of the media is defined in the law. The proposals on funding modalities are defined in Article 4a with proposals from colleagues and colleagues, and we all know that within this there are words that will be repeated from one political option to another. You're funding the media. This will be said by colleagues from the current opposition, our colleagues from the SD or LDS, the ruling SDS, and this will tell the same to those people, which is finally the truth. After all, it's the truth. We, with our laws that we adopt, give state resources to the media in a desire and desire to present to you our work correctly, which has now happened at least on this so-called third programme. But unfortunately, not everyone sees it. Let people see and hear the truth, that's good, we have to admit it, but not least, I can't get past it because it hurts. At the salaries of journalists who have appeared, it is quite clear that it is very good for the state to fund the media as much as possible, regardless of what one or the other option thinks, they will have the resources provided, but they will do whatever they want. And they're the ones who make politics, unfortunately, not us. I'm not ashamed, I was a journalist myself, I'm not ashamed, and if they resent me, they will, but the truth is that. We can work for the welfare of the Slovenian people, for the adoption of legislation, but not to talk for 5 hours about the media law with minor differences, which come only to acknowledge to the media what power they have. That's why. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law is a good basis. If there was consensus between political parties to define a way, I stress the way the amendment foresees, how to finance such or other media, they would not mind if it were a consensus. But if this is a consensus that brings them to one side or the other without judging any political option, thank you very much for such consensus. The law is what it is, the law we will, I hope, accept, and then we will see how and what. But it's gonna happen in the end, and I'm gonna say what I said again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Let me say this, Mr Barovic, that that comment was correct a few hours ago and that I was informed by the professional services that the problem you pointed out would be addressed during the vote. And we are continuing the debate. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you. I believe that the amendment of the Social Democrats has been properly tabled, and there is no discrepancy in the number of paragraphs and I do not find any questionable sentence because all conduct ends with a dot. So I really don't know what the irregularity of our amendment should be, and it doesn't involve two additional articles, it only introduces 4a. an article which therefore has only a single title, co-financing of public interest in the field of the media, although then, in the second part, of course, the main talk is how this co-financing is decided. Now let me, however, draw attention to something that seems essential to me in relation to the amendment to this article. It is true that, due to the failure to respect certain statements and certain professional positions in this law, all we are doing with the amendments is really just putting out the fire and trying to fix those articles that can be rectified at this stage of the legislative process. The fact is that we are amending the media law on request or on the initiative of the current ruling coalition, that this is no secret and that in this context pluralism or pluralisation was meant in a sense that does not contain the judgment of this definition. In my previous debate, I have pointed out that there is no uniform definition of plurality. Let me draw your attention to the fact that no one is writing debates to me and our client, but we are reading what has been published in connection with the media, because we have not come to the bottom of Da Vinci's secret charm and would feel that we are just as universally educated as Da Vinci was. That's why we read something. And there is one rare definition of pluralism in professional literature - prepared by a group of experts in the Council of Europe - and says: "Media pluralism is understood as a variety of media offerings that are reflected in the existence of many independent and autonomous media, and the diversity of media content available to the public." It cannot be overlooked that pluralism is linked to the media market and the media market is the biggest concentration problem, and it cannot be overlooked that the diversity or diversity of the media is used in the second part. And here the diversity of the media is meant. And what is the problem with pluralisation is, on the one hand, the definition of pluralism in the media, and the other is the setting of criteria for determining plurality. Because if we do not have a precise definition, it is difficult to define the criteria for determining this. And just as the current complementary proposal speaks about the need to monitor and study these things straight away, the amendment I am proposing speaks about. And now allow me to warn you one more thing. We were not the Social Democrats who invented the load as one of the criteria for drawing on the budget after the call. You will also be able to see this as an experience of those European countries that know either direct or direct media subsidies. And let me warn you, say, how Austria is dealing with the problem of media concentration [[it's back from some public media recorded that no one will have a problem with it.]] . For example, there is also the load mentioned. Indeed, this load is mentioned by a percentage of the copies sold by Austria or the whole of Austria, but they are some measurable mechanisms. Not to mention how France also has regulated subsidisation. There are also conditions. For example, for daily newspapers offering general and political information and having loads of less than 150,000 copies, they weigh less than 100 grams and their advertising yields less than 20% of the revenue. And then these media have some other benefits. This is said to be more accurate in local daily newspapers. They have a sold load of 60,000, and the printed load must not exceed 70,000, so some other speculations prevent it. If you read this, then you will see that such criteria exist. It is whether we want to agree to measurable criteria, to measurable criteria, or not to do so, and to set some criteria that are left to be judged. However, the judgment always depends on who makes up these organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about the amendment to Article 3. In fact, I am glad that there is so much talk about this article today. I must say that in the Slovenian People's Party, through all the debates on the media law, we have worked very hard to ensure that the financing of local and regional radio and television stations is resolved in the way it is addressed by Article 3 of the Media Act. We are confident that this objective will be achieved by the realization of this Article or by the achievement of this Article. We are still well aware, and this has been said several times, so in a public debate, although in the public debate itself this was not the main topic, the main topic was elsewhere. We will, of course, continue to discuss this matter. I am sure that, however, this government, the Ministry of Media Law Applicant in Article 3, has shown a great deal of attention to the resolution of the financing of local and regional radio stations. We know that local and regional radio stations are extremely important to complement national programmes that contribute to the enrichment of the media space and, last but not least, to decentralisation itself. We will not support the Slovenian People's Party of the Amendment. The amendment is somehow geared towards finding some way to, by what criteria and by what commission to distribute the funds intended to co-finance the programmes mentioned above. However, I think that all these matters are very well resolved in section 3 of the Act. In fact, I find this amendment irrelevant, and it probably stems from some mistrust that these matters will be resolved in the way the law says. I must say that in the past and even in the discussions where I have actively participated, in particular in this area, what great will to solve this problem has not been demonstrated by those who are proposing this amendment today. So it seems to me that this amendment is not in place today, and we will not finally support this amendment. However, we will be happy to support the media law, because we are convinced that we are still getting a law that, despite different thinking, is certainly European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! I came by for one simple reason, because I was probably the only one in this Chamber who, at the time of 15-, 16-year-old democracy, I once asked for the co-financing of an information and political week that was opposition, but I did not get an answer from the government, but it was at the time of Demos. That is why, of course, the balance of media space solutions, for the first time, I do not fully understand, because we have a media market, we have property that is essentially passing into private hands, and I do not imagine that the country, with its share of budgetary resources, can balance this media space, which also works under market rules. That is why this commission will have, and in any way it will be named, an extremely heavy weight. Of course, it already has political roots and will be held to the end for as long as it lasts. Let us remember that the requirement for harmony was a political requirement of the opposition in the previous composition of this national assembly and on the Slovenian political scene. And as a political requirement, it is now, in the same way as it is, established through the new media law and will be followed by this adjective, or this stick, especially in view of the innovative solution to how these funds will be shared. In short, I still believe that through media law we could have some fund to help start or implement some media in the Slovenian space. For today, when I heard the discussion, it was more about this political balance, which makes no sense and it is not good to be resolved through legislation, through media law. And last but not least, many of you have talked about balancing political people. However, when it comes to balancing political persons, who will be seen on the screen, who will be seen on the front page of the newspaper, there may be other criteria, weight, age, shoe number, or something else that can be taken into account. In short, once again, I would be a great supporter if the minister and his team could also use this fund to enforce, to strengthen the plurality of the media space, regardless of the political connotations that individuals will have. But so that there will be as many thoughts and words as possible in the Slovenian, even public space. It means once again, to start up, to help those who have this courage to go to the media market with some media either it's electronic or it's a written medium or whatever. In short, I will admire the commission that will share these funds every year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'll just say a few simple thoughts about it. I have wasted time on this, because it seems to me that the point of the debate is already over, it seems like decisions have been made, and now we can only express our thoughts in support of these decisions or we are protesting against them. But let me tell you how our group thinks. First, we need to say that we are not thinking "out, out" in such a way that we think that everything that one side has said is good, and everything the other has said is bad, but we still think that the debates would be considered only on this condition, if some upgrade of the basic texts would arise from these discussions, and therefore we feel that the content offered by the amendment of Article 3 is worthy of support. Mostly two reasons lead us to this. The first is that if these contents were accepted, the criteria would be less political. First of all, it would not say that it is very important whether it is said in a balanced way about opposition and position, and that it would not be precisely in this balanced writing about the rulings and those in the opposition that the Ministry of Culture was sharing money against which I had protested before we signed the coalition treaty. And secondly, if we had adopted some criteria here in Parliament within the framework of the law, then we would not have to give the currency to the executive authority, which will have to write down these criteria and criteria in some way. But then she'll write them down without us. We are now giving up the possibility of colliding here and abandoning all or most of this executive power. This has never been the best, and I also think that it is not logical to reject or even condemn the fact that we stand for more precise criteria and criteria. We therefore advocate that we know how these funds will be shared, at least in the basic guidelines, and that they can also participate in this allocation of funds or in setting criteria and criteria, in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. With all due respect, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, with great interest, I listened to my previous interlocutors, and I agree with some very much. However, when I read this amendment to liberal democracy and the following, one wonders in any way how and what formula would be adopted in this law, so that all the political options, because we are speaking in Parliament, would be satisfied. I can't find her. I can't find it, but I can't find it because in the past we have witnessed such or other events or political intrusions into certain media spaces. And when I am listening here today, I would also like to draw attention to some of my most respected colleagues from the largest coalition party to warn them in this place that they will not make the exact same mistake as they did in the past in those major coalition parties that have led the government in the past. To tell you the truth, at the last hearing of the National Assembly, I have made it clear and loudly in this place that some, according to domestically speaking, falotas, who are one day and one night in the largest coalition party, are going from owner to owner of such or other television houses and are shaping the fate of this fund, with some such or other members of political parties, of course, members of the People's Party, who are from a smaller party of the coalition, and members of parties from New Slovenia, who are from a smaller party of the coalition, we are in some way pushed aside and know exactly who or how we need to press to the top. That's what they say, and it feels like, Mr. Secretary of State. In the very city of Maribor, I have felt this on my skin many times. To tell you the truth, I would not want anyone here in this place to make a certain or different move that some have made in the past. We or those of you who have the most to practice with regard to this law should learn from the mistakes that others have made in the past. Morale, I'm not so sure. The last time I spoke in the National Assembly, and when I gave a such or otherwise picra statement regarding this fund and these funds, I was paid at the time of the call, if I thought of them, if I meant another one or if I meant that one. In allocating these funds, it is very important that the division is transparent and that the funds are distributed fairly through the programme. However, we all know well, and also this LDS proposal, who and how to be on the committee. You know, if you have the power, if you're the one who's proposing a commission, I'm sure you'll find people who aren't party members who are apolitical, who have doctors, names and other experiences that are trustworthy, and who can follow such or other instructions. This is not a guarantee, even if we accept such amendments as they have proposed. That's why I'm here publicly warning that such things can't happen. Yes, it is. And some need to learn something from past mistakes. As one of the colleagues earlier spoke about the President of the Programme Council, Mr Grand and some others. I can honestly tell you, however, whoever the president is, I would have some kind of support or something. However, we cannot compare President Grand with the previous President. Mr Granda has never been the president of such or other political parties. Even if he has support in the largest coalition party, it's nothing wrong, but he wasn't at the head of the party. Anyone else, if they had been president of the programming board in the past, would not have been wrong if they hadn't been as active as they were. Some may find this ridiculous, but double criteria should not apply. The same is true of constitutional judges with all due respect for one constitutional judge. But I remember the case, my fellow Member, when a fellow Member was running from the right to be a Constitutional Judge, because he was a Member, as if he was "infected" as if he had a negative pedigree, regardless of his ability. Today he is employed in the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Mr. Kangler, I'm obliged to warn you, too, so... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	I'm talking about Article 3, 4a. Article and comparison of work [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Just not in human resources policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	Okay. This leads to such or other debates and concerns. That's why I'm talking. Dear Minister, with all due respect to you, I hope that those who have such or different interests within the coalition or within your client, that you will know as a politician, as a minister, to balance this and to know those who are in this place, even by their own words, do not exclude those who want such and other influences in the distribution of these funds. Some already feel these influences before this law is passed. To the end. I am very pleased that we have such attention to the law, but I would be even more pleased if we even ever spoke about RTV in this place, about regional centres like in Maribor and in Cyprus, and would make some comparisons to at least get notices or messages from those responsible. I cannot imagine that for many years, as I have been monitoring the work of the Maribor regional RTV centre of the house under Pecarsko Gorca, there has been no right approach in Ljubljana and the right attitude towards our regional centre. After all, let me tell you something else, Mr. Secretary, given that we have spoken a lot here today even more widely, don't forget, I also wanted the outcome of the referendum to be positive. The Styrians, Prekmurci and Korosks were the ones we were at the referendum for, so we also deserve to be treated equally as partners, as I told you earlier, to take care of the financial, programme and provide such programming resources so that the regional centre in Maribor can function normally without having to be told domestically in the fear of some journalists, some employees, that they will be reorganised within RTV to reduce programmes, jobs and so on. However, if we are to conclude that, after the number of inhabitants you can make comparisons with the centre in Cyprus, the regional centre in Maribor covers the whole of Styria, Koroška and Prekmurje, and you will find that there are many more people working in Cyprus than in Maribor and that there is much more money to spend, but I do not want to make such comparisons, but I just want to say that, as I have said, those in charge of RTV, including the chairman of the programming board, I publicly say in this place, in accordance with all the guidelines and the law, and that I also consider this problem that I am in charge of today. I also conclude with this and somehow see no reason to support such an amendment, although I would like a slightly different formula, fair to the allocation of funds from the fund, but literally to say that policy would have no effect on the appointment of a commission to distribute these funds from the fund, and I will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I must say that I agree with the content of Article 3. Those who have doubts as to whether the money will be distributed properly or honestly, and as for the commission, which is somehow justified by the proposed amendments, I would like to say that I myself consider the distribution of this money to be done on the basis of a public invitation to tender, which is also written, and I believe that the division of this money, a billion and four hundred, will not go through any other system or in any other way, as is the case with all the public calls of individual ministries. When I listen to the opposition or the amendment's proposal, I end up feeling like this money is going to be split just like that. I would point out once again, I do not know where anyone has arguments or how someone can prove to me that this money will be shared differently than the rest of the money in the Republic of Slovenia, the budget money that can be applied to individual ministries, the economy, municipalities, institutions and so on. See, here in this law is already written the composition of a commission or someone not to be on the commission. I'd like to ask you a question. I don't know whether it would make sense, including with regard to some of these concerns, whether it is fair to share money in other sector ministries to discuss in the National Assembly the commissions left by the ministries when they share tax money on the basis of a public invitation to tender. This is not the case, but I do know that they have sub-laws or regulations that clearly state the criteria on which money is divided. I would also like to say that this commission will not share the money as discussed or debated here. At the final stage, it clearly states that the Commission will, on the basis of the criteria for the distribution of money or on the basis of which there is no difference between this Commission and the other Commissions, at the final stage, each applicant on the basis of these criteria will be flagged and the money will be distributed. That's how I picture it, not the other way around. I therefore believe that today's debate on Article 3 is too long. We are discussing a matter that has some political weight, and I think that this suspicion that money will not be distributed properly is certainly superfluous. Just two more, three things on the proposal of some restrictions or criteria. Here I see 50,000 copies sold a day, 8,000 copies sold a week. Who has the right to write this down? This means that we could also say that local communities or municipalities will be able to apply for an invitation, or only those with more than 10,000 or 20,000 or 50,000 inhabitants or other criteria will be allowed to apply, those with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants. The ninth paragraph fell into my eyes so that public-interest co-financing in the field could be notified to the issuers of printed media to co-finance the costs of postal services or distribution. If I somehow link this matter to the other calls, I think the taxpayer's money for that purpose or should not be. If I connect with some companies that are also applying for an invitation to tender. Why do they apply or what the money is for? For some developmental restructuring and so on. However, the taxpayer’s money will not be designed to distribute the final product to the buyer and so on. I do not believe that public procurement or budget money should be for these purposes. So once again, I think that the proposed solution is very good and that, in the final stage, those who really need it will have the opportunity to be justified in the final stage, as well as in the final stage, to receive it. I'd just like to mention this. Look, it's about deceiving the public. As previously discussed by colleague Orzmova, a billion 400 million are earmarked for how much money this is, and 140 prisoners could be financed from it. I think the colleague thought - given that in the Domžalje municipality they have this burning problem, it is a level crossing, a road or a railway line. Unfortunately, I have to say that there are only 14 prisoners here, unless my colleague thought they were the handmaidens that are nowhere else today. Because it is in our congregation that we are implementing this project, which costs about 100 million. Why am I telling this story? Because it can then be commented on in public - then it is only 10 million. And unfortunately, quite a lot of victims have already been on this account that we don't have an orderly protection of railway crossings. If this is only 10 million, then the congregation could also finance it, in particular ours or the congregation of Domžale. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At the time of this amendment, I would not hold back too much because I believe that the substantial improvement in Article 4a introduced by Article 3 of the amendment of the Media Law is a major improvement because at least, what is, it introduces extreme transparency and prevents the privilege or any other possible omission of individual media in the allocation of the funds of this Fund. I am also sure that this is a very embarrassing practice - already this is very embarrassing, I will say, rather, I would like to say nomotechnically, because this article refers to how the Minister should draw up or how the Minister should draw up a commission, cited in Article 101, refers to Article 101 of the Act. In doing so, it forgets that Article 101 of the Law states only which members of the world or that they cannot be members of the broadcasting council and lists then which they cannot be, and then refers only to those media that are electronic. It is said that there is absolutely no point, given that Article 4a does speak of the composition of a commission that decides on the allocation of funds for the pluralisation of media, which are also printed media. Secondly, I think it is very important to talk about this or to set some, including numerical, boundaries, because one of the middle diaries is working very hard and hastening to charge 50,000, so that he too will soon be able to run for funds of the fund, which now, if the limits are not set at such a height, will never be able to run. I think it's wise to give him a chance, because he'll probably need help soon to keep coming out. I therefore believe that there are a number of reasons why it would be prudent to support the amendment of the Social Democrats, because it is clearer, clearer and also ensures greater transparency, transparency in the allocation of funds for media pluralisation, and it also stresses not so much political pluralisation, but pluralisation in all areas, including in professional areas. I think there's something else. When talking about different people and the possibilities for appearing in the media, it seems to me that this was incorrect, especially when there was a talk about how individual opposition parties had something guaranteed or something unsecured, I do not think that this is a matter of party pluralism at all, but that we are all residents or citizens of Slovenia, and we have the possibility of equal information. So we can get information on the same matter in different ways. So it's not like the media is supposed to go one way or the other. While here, given that it is a decision, i.e. the criteria for deciding on the allocation of funds are practically only in the hands of the Commission and thus indirectly in the hands of the Minister of Culture, which is, of course, a logical, political personality, I believe that this way of distributing funds is worse than it is now in the proposal for a law than those proposed in the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 3. Mrs. Shirca, please, another time a little earlier, but fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u176	I'll be brief. No one has substantiated enough, and this needs to be stressed, the differences that come with these amendments to the visa of the government proposal. As we know, media subsidisation deals with printed, audiovisual RTV and TV programs of particular importance. And in print media, what does the government do in print media? He says he can support, subsidise only general information media. However, the amendments that have been tabled do not limit the subsidy or aid only to the general information media, which are more or less daily, and from this point of view are significantly more politically coloured, and bring a second incision, which unfortunately no one has pointed out, because you have dealt more or less with the load, which also makes sense why it has been introduced. These amendments expand the field of what is a printed media visa of government thinking, beyond this actual political limitation on general information logs dealing with positions-positions. Because - what does the amendment say, all three amendments speak? One is that it can also touch printed media in general and the other in general informational journals, in general informational weeks and in specialised weeks, monthly magazines and magazines with very low loads. I say that they are expanding the possibility of aid actually coming to those who have problems; whether it is, say, literature, disabled newspapers, whether they are masks, or whether they are specialized publishing magazines, which are also registered as media. There's also "but" here, "but" already clearly consumes enough resources, but it makes sense that they're in such a cut. But not to push the entire cut into this daily newspaper, which will also be able to work, despite the fact that its load is falling, not as drastic as it is confined here, but still. All I want to stress is that here in our solutions, there is a distinction between those who have profits and those who, due to the introduction, exercise of public interest in an unprivileged situation. At the same time, those situations that are known from the past, which have been offered to us by the experience of the Slovenians, the Republic and others, can also be remedied in the way criteria define how to finance them. This seems important to me once again to note the differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u177	Mag. Grims, what was your performance misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u178	Of course, it was said that no one noticed this diversion of funds for pluralisation. I just wanted to say, we've noticed, we've defined ourselves, we just need to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u179	Okay, thank you very much. And now Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! During this time, I checked one statement that was very loudly said from the bench earlier, during my performance. In fact, colleague Dimitrij Kovacic said during my performance that he is the president of the Social Democrats, our party, Borut Pahor, a member of the Republican Council. And I would like to say that Borut Pahor is, of course, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, but he has never been a member of the Assembly for the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u181	Mr. Bevk, you're breaking the rules again, please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u182	is, however, as the President of the Party [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u183	Let's get this out of the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u184	the President of the Party and the European Member responded to the invitation and attended the first meeting of the Assembly for the Republic. [[...]] Just that there will be no misunderstandings, because they're already talking about everything [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u185	I've defined your performance as a replica, so I'm not going to give the replica to the replica and [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] All right, Mr Kovacič, but the debate on Article 3 and the amendments, please. [[...]] Yeah, I know what's gonna happen, but I have to warn you anyway. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much for the debate, which will be very brief. The Assembly for the Republic has no members, and one of these participants, who also participated in the Assembly for the Republic, was also the President of the Social Democrats, Borut Pahor, and in this sense I intervened from the bench when you spoke. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, but he does not have members of the Assembly for the Republic, but he has participants and, like other members of the Assembly for the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor was also a member of the Assembly for the Republic. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I am now really concluding the debate clearly with Article 3 and with all four amendments, and I am putting Article 8 and the amendment of the LDS Group to the debate. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will explain the purpose of our amendment to Article 8 which deals with the right to correction and answer. We, because of the excessive regulation that happens with this article, propose that paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 and 8 be deleted, while introducing two additional supplements to help, the right one not to appear to correct the corrected text or conscience together with a comment in the same number or in the same broadcast or in the same medium, and to simplify with the new fourth paragraph the correction of the text or conscience. At the outset, I would like to say that we feel welcome and welcome the willingness of the ruling coalition to listen to a public debate and that in Article 10, which is still part of the right to correction and response, has withdrawn that extensification of the correction that threatened to be faced with situations where the corrections and responses would be substantial or longer than the announced message to which the correction relates. There's been some sort of normalization. However, if we could listen a little longer and deeper, we could also produce this constitutional solution in a better way than we are now going to have written in the law, for it is doubtless that this amendment will be too heard or unsupported, but at least the discussion is the one that can go into memory. We still do not agree - and therefore we delete a number of paragraphs - we do not agree with this regulation because excessive regulation brings the possibility of interference with media freedom and excessive regulation can also bring incredible problems and inconvenience in practice. Now I'm cariculating, but in theory, this comparison I'm going to make can be possible. Imagine, for example, that you are a caricature that will be affected and that will have to be published in a way that, according to the law, will have the same value. Imagine a cartoon that will correct itself with a cartoon. Imagine a television or radio contribution, especially the electronic production will be affected, for example, by Tarč, Trenja, what I know is what such a broadcast will have to do in the next contribution, if required, to be corrected with a picture, in a broadcast that will talk about a completely different closed unit, such as railways, which will be corrected about the religious system or religions. And in that sense, there will be problems. Now I'm stressing only one problem, but I know there could be a lot of other problems. And in this context, I also believe that there will be confusion among the editors who will have to fix it in a way that might even break their autonomy when the program is co-formed if someone wants to display different visions and changes than the journalists will write. And in this way, editors or journalists of some kind may become forced landlords, who will have to publish positions that will interfere with their creation of the content of space in their media. Undoubtedly, I would point out that there will be no confusion, but I believe that the right to correction and reply, as defined in the Constitution and also in the current law, is one of the most important democratic gains, but must not strike too deeply into another right, the right to information and the freedom to create media content. And here, too, the problem may be in the context that this chapter has been corrected, but it is still very taxive, exactly, and it will present great problems, not so many acquisitions. I would prefer to appeal for the solution with which we have been equipped, not only to the opposition, that there will be no confusion, experts dealing with this issue, but also editors who in practice know how to live it, that it would wait for an accurate analysis and possibly change the current legal regime in the direction of some other self-regulatory form, perhaps even in the sense of looking for a chapter that would collect these corrections, even in the sense of various press worlds. Therefore, we are not surprised by the solution offered, I quote again, by the Peace Institute in its solutions to preserve the previous, take time and, based on practice, find new solutions. The main practice I would give would be the case law. The case law in this field did not have much experience because it did not exist, but I also know why. Therefore, I appeal that these two be taken into account within Article 8 as we have proposed in the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Otherwise, we're just a little bit here, so they've probably been running for lunch, 'cause it's lunch time. We are at Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. I must say, this first part of the amendment doesn't seem so wrong. As far as the continuation is concerned, it seems almost unbelievable to delete the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs of this Article. I think that this Article 8 is one of the most important articles of this new law, since it regulates the right to correction, which I must say has been misused so much so far. Therefore, I think that this legal provision, as it is prepared, is extremely good. I would say that it has happened many times, perhaps also because it was not clear what the right to correction must be, when it was not clearly defined for certain matters, that they had taken place on purpose and published errors. Given what article we now have in mind, when things are fairly clear, very precise, I am sure that this article will also cause less errors to occur in the media, either to print, to electronic or to any other media. In order for the right to correction to be too regulated with this Article 8 right now, I cannot agree with this. I agree, however, that it is right that we have a matter clearly prepared for all cases, clearly defined that we can exercise this right. In this way, we will certainly be able to avoid even the deliberate mistakes that sometimes occur. If, for example, I stop at point 4, which the amendment proposes to delete. It is said that the correction must be published in such a form in such a place that its publication has the same value as the article or contribution to which it relates is a fundamental right or a basic way to ensure such correction. In order not to list the individual points now, I think that the practice so far has dictated Article 8 as we now propose in the law. And if we were to accept this proposed amendment, I am sure that, at least as far as the amendment is concerned, the matter would be much more misplaced, vague than is now provided for in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you. The word has magic. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself have with the correction referred to in Article 8, which is a great deal of experience, but not the experience of an older date, but from this time when we are already adopting this law in Parliament. Our Article 8 and our amendment state that in the same edition or broadcast of the media, a comment on or response to this amendment may not be published at the same time as the amendment. I must say that this has happened to me more than once or that it goes even further. When I sent an article to the press, the article was of course censored and unpublished, commenting on my article and thinking about editors in the same issue was published. I think it's some kind of thing that's funny, unacceptable, and rarely anyone believes it if they haven't experienced it on their skin. But that's what's happening. I don't think I'm going to make any difference in this debate, but maybe we'll give the minister another chance and some thought. Then, not long ago, about a month ago, I also demanded the right to correction in a radio broadcast on the local media. The broadcast lasted 40 minutes, and I was repeatedly appointed in a substantive debate, in a negative and defiled manner. When I requested and recorded on the invitation of this medium a 10-minute correction, - look at it - this miracle of my correction was carefully analyzed, listened to and, of course, based on this, I was informed that it was not suitable for publication. Not because of any vocabulary errors, but because of the content of the matter, it was the one that interfered. When I then complained that it was a periodic Sunday show that I had the right to be the first on the next Sunday show, of course they rejected this right and suggested that I should be able to publish this contribution on Easter on Sunday afternoon. As to respect and the tradition of a Christian holiday, of course, I gave it up. This right to correction must be specified and specified. It is one of the fundamental pillars of democracy at both the state and local levels, especially because, at the local level, this right and the media time during the position can be said and the opposition is not as it would have come to the election result or as some colleagues have discussed before me how it used to be, but how it is in the media space today. I come from the middle, where the time of radio broadcasts between the position and the opposition is divided into a ratio of 100 to 0. At that time, when the position is spoken, the payer of radio services is the budget of the municipality, and when the opposition speaks, of course, the payer of these services is the Member's pocket and the Member's wallet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The right to correction has been discussed for quite some time now, and in fact there has been an incredible roar in the public eye. Now let's ask ourselves why. Let me put this in my own way. If only two of God’s commandments were respected in all the editorial systems, that is, do not lie and bear false witness, the right to correction would never have been needed, for no one would have been excused. Yet again, the Bible is right when it says that bad conscience is a very bad thing and, of course, those who step on its tail raise their voices. This case is as clear as the one that has been said several times before: "Yes, politics is now taking over the media." You know, that's exactly the tactic where that thief who has his hand in the victim's pocket not only to the elbow, but to the shoulder, he yells most loudly with his coat says, "Take the thief, take the thief!" - so you wouldn't see where his hand is. That's really the story. Now the right to correction, if we go a little bit more seriously, was also the central theme of the public presentation of opinions in this very national assembly. This was very quality, I regret only that some of the so-called professions were not here - but they had a lot to say elsewhere - because here we could gladly provide some useful guidance, suggestions, but we can only understand this within the framework of the legal principle that is silent. But why they didn't say anything, but I think it was nice to see when it was about the right to correction again that one of the professions from FDV, Mr Milosavljevic, said on TV that 90% of everything we talk about and write about in the media is politics. Now I don't know which media he knows, but if he said that as an expert, I would expect him to open up professionally justified grounds for such a claim to the public in Slovenia. For my personal opinion is that when we look at how much space is occupied by culture, how much space is occupied by entertainment, how much space is occupied by sport, how many different other informational, interesting themes are actually left for politics very little space. How he intended 90%, however, I expect a scientific study that will also justify it. Well, let's put this aside now and get back to the tighter right to correction. About this, you know, the president of the Slovenian Society told an extremely important information behind that speaker panel there. In fact, frankly, and I'm happy and I'm giving him credit for those words, he said that this right has been violated long and hard in the past period, as he said, if I quote correctly, "has not been consistently respected." You know, this right isn't exactly ours. In fact, we are one of the few countries that has this right explicitly enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. So it's a constitutional right. The right to correction, together with the right of reply, is a constitutional right in Slovenia. This is said to be the case, as legislators, to take those steps to ensure that this constitutional right will be justified for everyone who is entitled to it if he becomes a victim of misreporting in order to exercise this constitutional right of reply. Yes, as Matthew Krivic said, he also presents the second side of the medal. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Interestingly, this is also in favour of media pluralism. In fact, with the right to correction, therefore, the second side of the medal comes into the media. And so some other content, a different view, a different definition of value to some topic, and this can only benefit - benefits in terms of filling out, removing that deficit, to which the US Foreign Ministry rightly also warned us in its report on the state of human rights in Slovenia. But this was not the first time, this has warned us for many years, for this must be stressed. Now let me just say in practical terms why we will not support this amendment in the SDS, so that these more precise definitions of the way - because it is only about how the right to correction is realized - are deleted. This seems very important to us, for that is what has been the most complicated in the past. You know, all those fundamental principles, let's say that a correction has to be published in the equivalent, the same space, even in the same broadcast, is written in the current law, all of which is already in the current law. The first discussions on this subject were very interesting when it was shown that many responsible editors, even central Slovenian media, do not have any idea of the law they really need to implement. They didn't even know what they were talking about. They were talking about the contents that were already written in this law. I even saw a statement on TV that some editor said with a smile, to her, it's a shame that the new law doesn't apply, and then I could claim to answer in the next one. He was very wrong. This could be enforced under the current law, as the law currently in force, colleagues, in electronic media, binds the right to reply to the same broadcast. According to the new, this is much more reasonable, and it binds to a software band that is approximately equivalent to the one in which a false prediction, a false message, misinformation was given. How's practice? Allow a very nice practical view. Look, it's only been two years since one of the central Slovenian public announcements produced such a big article. All about a quarter of a page. The article has a very negative message regarding four persons. This message was completely fabricated, and it was well thought out that the maximum was the negative emotional opinions of all readers and readers. We could talk about this a lot, but that would then take us to why a colleague from LDS said earlier that there's nothing wrong with not writing about certain things and opinions, because it was written with a specific political note. But, as I say, it's not today's theme, it's a fix. For this article has been corrected. He experienced it in the best possible way that the law now in force prescribed by this law had a big hole in it. He did not define exactly what is now proposed with this amendment to be deleted. By the way, look what happened. The following day, the correction was published on the same page. I can open both sides for comparison. A correction has been published, but now he gets the Nobel Prize - everyone sees this basic article, here below - the Nobel Prize gets the one that shows me where this correction was published. He's on this side, he's true, but I've been looking for him four times to find him. You know what the joke is? It has been published in this completely different article, which has the title Disclosure of Adutses and, of course, has nothing to do with the subject. There's a subtitle inside this box, and it only says an apology. And then it came to an end: What we had published was not all true. The journalist himself admitted that he made it up, it wasn't real, but no one ever saw it. That's what this story is all about. That's what was the problem with the current marriage. Even if you have been corrected, no one has seen this correction. This was no right whatsoever, but this was done only to an even greater extent an additional injustice, and certainly the basic injustice was not corrected. It is therefore important to specify very precisely how the correction should be published, so that the correction actually achieves its purpose. And there's something else I'd like to remind you of. Those who think that these provisions are unrealistic, colleagues, are the favorite even provisions of the Austrian law, which in Austria has been in force for many years and has even been further exacerbated just a few years ago. That's interesting. In doing so, we can explain to all of us what the problems will be. But you know, I understand the background of that, too. This is mainly about the fact that in Slovenia there is a very different problem, and this is that we have all become a very "code". Journalists are people, too. They like "commodity." And you know what the chest is, you don't check anything, and you just evaluate, you just comment, and you do your job. However, if the right to correction is consistently exercised, it is necessary to know that this right is unpleasant for the journalist and for the media because it spreads "slamparia". And then, of course, it is known that someone has been wronged, that something has been done in contravention of journalistic ethics so and, more importantly, the constitutional right of the victim to tell the other side of the medal to publish the correction and thus allow for his rehabilitation. What is also an essential advantage of the new regime is prescribed, somewhat reduced but, in the framework of the current rules, fully feasible deadlines in the courts. For nothing helped the present provision in the law now in force, that the first claim should be called after eight days, when this was not in accordance with the other regulations of this country, and in particular the procedure was carried out years and years and years. What right, I ask you, was that, after a few years, when what was meant to be the sin of this man was written several times in the media, in each hearing separately, if in the end the court fully complied with his demands; he said you were justified, you were right, you have all the right to correction, even to compensation. What did that mean after a few years? Man, his family - we know how easy it is in Slovenia to operate on accusations of pedophilia and similar nonsense in the media lately. This man is destroyed, Slovenia is small. You can't move to a completely different end like the United States and start a new one. This is about people's fates, and it's not just the great people's fates, but also the great people could have been very much in the past victims of such stories, but for purely small, ordinary people. Here in this National Assembly there was also a story presented, even in writing they gave me material, I can document how the disabled person, the tetraplegic on the trolley, was deprived of the right to correction. Please! And once again, this is not just our conclusion, it is also the recognition of those who are most called and obliged to do so. In view of the fact that this right will actually come to life, that it will be feasible and that the constitutional principle, which is democratic, will be fully fulfilled, and we can only thank the farsightedness of the writers of the Slovenian Constitution, that they have included it, because I firmly believe that today we cannot really talk about it - so that all of this can be achieved, it is necessary to regulate, as the new law offers, even adopt and implement it. And then I also expect from the Ministry, just as a supplement, that it will also ensure proper supervision, that it will not only be a dead letter on paper, but the actual realization of constitutional rights, which will be feasible to anyone who will be the victim of misreporting or distorted or even invented, as in the case that I have shown you, information. Thank you. Of course, this means that the amendment tabled by the LDS will by no means be supported by the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would stop at this first part of the LDS amendment, which says: "In the same broadcast or in the media broadcast, the comment of this amendment or the reply to it shall not be published at the same time as the correction." This could even be supported in some way, but it is not necessary. This part of the amendment doesn't need to be because it's something in itself artificial. What is written is part of normal, normal journalistic practice and journalistic code, otherwise not written, because the press code of Slovenian journalists does not explicitly record it, but most journalists simply stick to it. The media or journalists who do not do so are rude and are not worthy of their profession and, sooner or later, the media market somehow throws them out. And all those who have at least ever seen the FDV from the outside and whatever anyone else thinks about this institution, they don't do that. Commenting in the same number, commenting on correction or response, is a pre-modern time that Slovenian journalists, I am quite sure, have long exceeded. Indeed, we do have multiple editorial interventions into controversy, when editorials sometimes break down certain controversy fairly robustly among individual writers, but this is also understandable in some ways because the controversy can last indefinitely and can ultimately also damage the reputation of the newspaper itself, and this is often necessary. I do not think it shows that it is necessary to write into the law, and I think that Slovenian journalism has already reached such standards that this part of the text is simply not necessary under Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I am surprised why the proposers of this amendment wish to limit the right to correction in any way. It seemed to me, as has been said before, that it is not logical for a democratic system, a democratic society, to fight the opposition to do so. If we did not know the context of the situation so far, the regulation of the media, to the current pressures on the media and the existing positions of both capital and all others. And some live in the belief that it is possible to retain all of this, that it is possible to maintain undemocratic conduct in the field of correction when corrections have not been published. I could have mentioned the hour when such unreal things were published in the past during the previous rule; I cannot say either by order of authority or because of the political inclinations of journalists and editors themselves, but it is a fact. We could count it and we could count it. The correction has not been published, although this is a constitutional right. The method of publication of the correction in these Articles, Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 is now in fact specified. It is written in such a way that it will not be able to inform the subjective journalist or editor of the will to avoid publishing the truth. If we look at what is written from the position of power and the interests of every government and government, then I can say that the Minister wrote an anti-government solution with such an article or law with such solutions. In fact, the first minister, who, because of the unlimited democracy written down by truthfulness, wrote solutions that objectively go against the interests of every authority. I am aware that colleague Školč, who was a cultural minister who also wrote such laws, is deeply aware of this and is not more likely to be in this debate today. However, Shirca’s colleague probably listened to the authorities at the time, and she did not write this, although she was aware that this should be in that form. It has not been able in the past to provide a legal basis for respect for the constitutional institution of the right to correction. I deeply understand that the journalists who have come out have, in some way, been in the Stalinistic methods that have ruled in the media, that they were then under pressure from editors and owners and all that they cannot understand in modern times. Another reason is that it is illogical - what the opposition says. If yesterday's Tarchoon saying that television and the media are going to publish exactly what they're going to do, they're going to do what we're going to ask them to do, and if it were true that the tendency of the authorities to get their own media, then they wouldn't write it. Then it's completely in the opposite direction. Because "Tercoon's rule" does not apply because it is not being implemented because the media today are significantly more democratic than they were, some people are shouting here that it is contrary to democracy, because their views on media democracy, their views on media regulation, of course, will no longer be possible to enforce newspapers in conflict with the interests of civil society, contrary to the interests of a small person, contrary to the interests of democratic decision-making in society. I believe that, on the basis of these rules, editors will have some problems, but this will result in a much more democratic relationship in society and also the right to the truth, to the true information of citizens, readers, will be significantly more assured than it has been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I would say this about the amendment to Article 8 or that the proposer said that it was by correcting or jeopardising the independence of the media as a whole. For example, it would be more appropriate to identify the pages in the printed media on which the corrections are published. I don't know if you're really so worried that the independence of the media will be compromised, because we've already had these pages in the media, and we know what happened to them, these are basically readers' letters. I would like to say that the correction, we could also call it an apology, does not refer to fair, real, professional, objective, cultural contributions, but rather to lies, untrue statements, convictions, unobjective reports that hurt, hurt and wrong, that is in fact an excuse or an explanation. And I am really worried because you were very worried about Article 4 that there will be no more justice in the media, why you are so afraid of these corrections. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that all the injustices that are intentionally or unintentionally caused must be rectified. Sometimes they are also unintentional, even because of lack of information or ignorance of the area, but this does not mean that it does not justify an apology or correction. I am also convinced that many times it is impossible to correct the statement made. Let me put it this way. The man was charged with murder. Loads, especially in the yellow press, mass growth, man is crushed, family marked, man is grounded. After many years, the court apologized to him or admitted that he had made a mistake. The media are full of his stories again. This man, this family, cannot be corrected by anyone with any excuses, in fact, to correct injustices, only the truth can be told. Therefore, in New Slovenia we insist on corrections, excuses for false statements, lies, incorrect information, anything that offends, affects human dignity, or misinformation is given to media users. We don't seem to have a disputed scale at all, and it doesn't actually hurt us at all. I do not think that there will be many of these corrections, more than there have been today, so far, and that people will not want any corrections for every little thing, and that journalists will not publish them anymore or less. However, if they are justified, they should be excused and the correction should be written. I also know a journalist, for example, who calls me several times when he reports about an event, of course if I was there, asks me whether the minister meant something or whether the person who has just made statements and confirmed them or not, but never comes to my mind to suggest that she should write something else, which would come to my mind or would be useful to me, because I respect her independence, expertise and also to know that she is properly reporting information. But I don't see any corrections in that sense when a journalist, let's say that one false statement, I think it was deliberately made, and then when I expect an apology from him, instead of apologizing to me or admitting that he actually made that statement wrongly, he adds additional substantiations to the content that we don't agree on or have different views about. Let the corrections also be correct and I believe that it is difficult to admit sometimes, I have made a mistake, I apologize and that this will be the greatest wisdom in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Allow me to read the list so far, so that you will be better prepared: Horvat, Ljubeljšek, Barovič, Pecan and Irgle. So my colleague, Joseph Horvath, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I would like to inform my fellow Members and colleagues from the LDS Club that I respect their efforts to try to improve this law with the amendment they tabled under Article 8, but I am of the opinion that the solution, as set out in the amended bill, is better, so I also report that I will not support their amendment to Article 8. We face an unusually strong resistance to the right to correction. It is interesting that the rights to correction are primarily defended by journalists, of course not all of them, that I will not do wrong to everyone, only those who consider themselves experts in journalism. But they come from the more obviously left centre that defended and represented the interests of the authorities that were unfortunately defeated in the last elections. It is interesting that none of these critics mentions Article 40 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to correction and reply. That's interesting! This right is granted, but the media did not respect it. Now this constitutional article is being criticized for abuse of the law. In fact, it is a long-standing abuse of this constitutional right by the media. Again, I'm not talking about all media. I don't want to generalize. I still respect the right journalists, thank God we have many in Slovenia. If I stop at the criticism of this constitutional right, I find that the origins of these criticisms are completely wrong. This is because the media situation in Slovenia is compared to the media situation in the US and Western Europe. According to their perception, our media are completely free and plural, as they react differently to events. Their comments are politically and globally different. They are equally critical and impartial to each government. Journalists are completely autonomous and do not serve any political authority structure, do no media killings, such as Dr. Arhar. Their errors and unverified information are rare, but if they are, they are recognized and corrected. The problem is that this perception of media reality is not covered by the perception of many others who have a completely different opinion about our media. And that's that our daily media isn't plural. That events are the same, but not different comments. To directly rape us with one-way value comments that they are politically boring, because we already know what their definition is and which party they are rooting for. In doing so, they easily violate their professional standards and the reliability of their information are not sufficiently checked, especially when they deliberately affect someone’s status and honour. I am asking myself the question: will we achieve pluralism in Slovenian society? And I am also answering myself, perhaps wrong: we will, but not soon, because the forces that want to maintain the monopoly in the media today are very strong, and they are also partly supported by the spiritual state, not only Slovenia, but also all Europe. Things don't come up. And that's also due to the big media noise. Today, we have all been morally and spiritually deafened by media noise. The media won't let us be alone with each other, which is the only condition that you can come to some fundamental truths and the world you're experiencing, you'll change your mind. If you don't have time to be alone with yourself, then you're in a media function, so you're a responsive picture of what the media wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Ljubeljska to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with his associates, a respected council! Since I am limited in time, I will focus only on this amendment and the content of this amendment, especially on the proposal to delete paragraphs second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. Therefore, in the first place, I am not going to support this amendment in any way, as it is being deleted or the correct right to correction and reply is being narrowed down. I insist and firmly believe that it is right that the proposal for a media law has clarified the constitutional principle of the right to correction and reply, because the media have the power and every power must have the rules and limitations laid down. The right to correction is therefore a weaker right because the individual against the media is always in a subordinate position. On behalf of your freedom, you need to know how to stand before the freedom of another. Human dignity must be protected and respected. I have no doubt that most journalists and editors realize that the power of the word is exceptional and that the truth in the proverb that says: The sword has two cuts, the word is unnumbered. The claims that the extended right to correction entails possible complications, pressures on independence, criticism and credibility of journalists and editors do not hold back. We need the exact right to correction primarily because no one in this world is intruding, not even journalists and editors, but the right to correction may prevent a lot of unjustifiable or false information and criticism, injustice, various insults and depravity. Sometimes the media could freely write or say a lot of things because almost no one ever asked for a correction or a request failed and there was no one to limit the so-called freedom of the media, and now such demands are sometimes heard, so some feel that this freedom is limited to their autonomy. However, the autonomy of the media cannot be different from the professional message, illuminated with all possible angles of view. Autonomy, I don't think, is monopolity over the reality of the message. The claims to regulate newspapers, television and radio programs by the affected are unfounded. Wherever the foundations of the media are built up with the quality and professionality of the journalistic work, as well as with respect to the code, there can be no problem that if someone is already wronged, this can also be corrected in the most equivalent way, which is only fair. Just as we are accountable to our constituents and voters in politics, the media are responsible to their readers, viewers and listeners. Above all, I believe that they will have the key to correction in their hands as the media themselves. Why? If a journalist writes something about a professional, correct and true fact, then there is no harm and no cause for correction. I guess it won't be a written lie or a lie. However, if an untruth, half-truth or similar is recorded, it shall have the right to reply in the same or equivalent manner, on the equivalent side of the newspaper, in approximately the same extent and form. Well, there's going to be a problem of correction on the media, not on the readers. The media are not their own purpose, but they are an integral part of Slovenian space and society, so we define serious media on one side as well as the yellow and party press. We need each other, and we are also dependent on each other, so it is right that this relationship in our country would be corrected on both sides and on the media side also professional. With all due respect to the media, which are part of our daily lives and without them we certainly cannot, with respect for journalists and editors, I believe that their work with new changes and additions to the media law will not be distorted in anything, nor will it interfere with freedom of the press and speech, nor in the autonomy of the media. That's why I'm going to support the bill. However, I will not support this amendment because it generalises or narrows down the right to correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! Let's leave Section 8 in the law as it is. Let me remind you, "kadia sues the Cady Court" would be if they changed it. We are to blame until we prove ourselves innocent; the media do. There are innocent people around the world until they prove they're guilty. And article 8 of this law is trying to do what I said, let's leave it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I'm happy to say that we're finally talking about the content of this amendment, because we haven't talked about the content before. First of all, I would like to say that I am very surprised by this amendment, which was written by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at Article 8, on the right to correction. For I am surprised that the opposition is so scrupulously resisting this right to correction, when in the first place it may be good for the opposition. The fact is that when we talk about the right to correction, we are talking about the right of every citizen, every citizen, not least every institution to remedy, which is, of course, enshrined in Article 40 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is primarily the exercise of the right enshrined in the chapter on human rights, in Article 15, where it is expressly stated that these rights are not allowed to be restricted by any means. So I'm going to say that I'm really worried about this opposition that doesn't stand on the side of the weak, but it takes logic to put it on the side of the stronger. Why is that? Probably because in this case it is a matter of certain interests and also more than an obvious preservation of a privileged state that has functioned in the past; today, when the situation in Slovenia is quite different, when we have another authority that wants to act better, who wants to change for the better and tries to regulate these things too, but unfortunately such a system no longer works. So once again, I will say that I am seriously concerned about such opposition, which is on the side of the stronger against the weaker ones, but which should have the right to correct those things that are inaccurate, untrue, which are written on the basis of unverified information, such a person must have the right to deny the lies that have been told about him. We know that there have been known cases of deplorable accurate data, but unfortunately people have not been allowed the right to correction, as my colleague Saiovic also said, so I don't know why these rights are being so fraught that we are now giving him this law. Finally, I would say that this right to correction primarily allows journalists to consider what they write. Then it will probably not be necessary to abuse the rights of correction so many times, in this case in quotations. Finally, I would say that I am truly surprised that the opposition, with so much pump, has announced how the coalition has taken over all the media while denying the right to correction. And if it is true that the government has taken over all the media, then this law and the right to correction are written on the skin of the opposition, so I cannot support this amendment because I wish them well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Today, however, it has been heard many times since the spokeswoman, why the opposition is so nearly stupid that the offers offered by the generous coalition will be broken down, as you would find them all right. It is in these statements that Mrs Irgle, as well as Mr Sok, is the perversion of thinking that we are talking about a law that deals only with issues of position, opposition, the right policy. This law is for everyone and for whom it benefits, you cannot determine, but if you have already taken over your thinking, Mrs Irgle, if you say and if you claim and if it is claimed and if it almost proves that the media are taking over your hands, then the actual correction would never have to be enforced because the texts would already be directed. Let me go back to two more chapters. When the constitutional article was passed into the media law years ago, it poured itself very carefully, very cleverly and vettingly, with countless consultations and countless reflections, especially in those words that we know as dictates the same or equivalent way of publishing, correcting conscience - whether it is exactly the same or equal and so on. We overcame a number of options, and people were involved, who, when democratic thought began to be broken down in the Yugoslav space at that time, proved to be successful fighters for freedom of speech. That is why I believe that, basically, there was a great effort at the time. The question is whether the practice that was then implemented at other levels has been successful in one way or another. But this practice would be worth considering, not the issue of the opposition, the benefits of the opposition. If you refuse the first part of the amendment to Article 8 to allow the same edition or broadcast of the media to publish a comment, be careful, the comment of this amendment or the reply to it, the actual contents of certain newspapers or media may change into a collection of some very liberarian content. Imagine what it would look like today to be a guest pen in a central Slovenian diary that would challenge - not only a journalist, but also anyone affected can argue - that would undermine thinking, say, of the one who challenged his. We know that there is a familiar issue about who has more perspective on the past, whether the editor of the time or the politicians at the time, and if there is a correction or correction or a comment on this correction under the guest pen. Regular publication of the guest pen would not be possible anymore, as this could continue in an impossible and extremely absurd situation. Commenting on the correction means you can depress it, take its charge and trigger further corrections and comments. This part, which existed previously in the media law and which you have now run over, the impossibility or prohibition of publishing a comment at the time the correction is published, needs to be implemented, and is not, Mr Petek, as self-evident as it looks, because it can bring a lot of problems and traps. Of course, there are also some unethical situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you. When we talk about the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 8, which deals with the correction, one who listens to the debate might think that this area has been omitted in the current media law, but that is not true. The law in force also introduces the right to correction, has a very broad definition, discretion, and is also being implemented in the newspaper. For example, let me just say, I looked at the possibility of correction or with published corrections in one of the Slovenian media in a randomly selected week. This was the 11th week of this year, which began on Monday, March 13. Five corrections have been published in this media. Two or at least three others could be classified as a group of what can be classified under the definition of correction because it is in fact incorrect. Interestingly, in these two corrections, which are short, only real corrections, real errors have been corrected. Then there are three more texts, for which it is no longer possible to say that they are, both in scope and by content, corrected in the classical sense of the word. Let's say one of the corrections covers a third of the A4 format and then there's a response to the correction. He's not an anonymous person anymore, but we all know him. What am I trying to say? I want to prove that five corrections have been published in one medium in one week. This means that the applicable law already defines the correction. But the question is, what do we want to do with the new definition of correction? And it is a touching concern of some who have human rights in mind, a pity that you are no longer shown by concern on the Human Rights Commission, and they want the opposition to admit that it is against correction. No, it has to be fixed, the media is obliged to publish corrections. The question is, what is it that the correction requires, as the correction represents? I'll get it over with. Recently this was published in one medium by a Cossack, who also had a petition application board as part of it. You're not gonna believe this. The commission got 17 petition applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to add something to Article 8 and the proposed amendment. Much has been said, so I would like to make my contribution to saying that the right to correction, as defined in the current proposal of the law, is a kind of clearly-defined thing that not only expands or otherwise defines, but merely specifies. There was a lot of talk about this in general. Very little in particular. What does the bill define exactly as compared to the proposed amendments? Nothing but that the right to correction is clearly despised and defined. This was also true in the past, but unfortunately no one held to it. Nor was it clearly defined the so-called penalties or fines, which are also more precisely defined by the current law and in some more acute form. So the amendment to Article 8 proposed by the opposition does not want to support, because it seemed important to me that we finally come to this point, if someone on the front page writes and causes injustice, in the next issue or after that time, as the law specifies, also correct this injustice, apologize or otherwise define it. Once we do this, we will achieve those developed countries that have long since realized that the right to correct their cause and not the legislator's thing, so they themselves have been able to organise themselves and themselves have come to the realization that it is only fair and proper that the media or media composers themselves come to this realization and that they themselves introduce some self-control that this has not happened. If this happens, which is quite common in the world of this information, it can be fast, in which case of course they decide for themselves and organise themselves to have the right to correction. In this regard, we can see where we are and how far democratic we are with regard to the right to correction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Earlier, my colleague, Shirca, had named me for no reason because I had not yet discussed this amendment, and she taught me that this law was written or written for citizens. I don't even know if he knows why he's discussing it in the way he is discussing it, and in fact, in his discussions, he's just defining it for politics and political parties. While the fact is that there is a lot of talk in the media about politics, about statements by politicians, but that the law is written for citizens, we all know. This is, in fact, Shirca's colleague, your insistence and presentation, that politics has subordinated the media, that politics has written the law on RTV such as it fits the policy to take over the RTV house, etc., you keep saying that. So much in response to your conclusion. However, I also see that, apart from you, your colleagues do not show much interest in handling this law because you have been left alone in the Chamber. As far as correction is concerned, this is one of the three issues that have been the most publicized, or this amendment of the law has been the most publicised at these three points in addition to the fund, correction and violence. It is true that this right is already legal and how it is implemented, but of course it is another thing. Now, colleague mag. Spending, as she said, has a very good experience in this, but many of us do, but with these corrections we do not have good experience. In fact, as it has already been heard, these corrections are mostly published by the media after a week, 14 days, sometimes even longer in readers' letters. And now it will be more precisely defined that the correction must be published earlier and that it must be published on the same page and, if necessary, in the same length as the article. Many times a journalist can write something and then it's hard to fix it in the same way. For example, you can write an untruth, and then you will find it difficult to deny it in one sentence, but in the end we all agreed that the correction should not be longer than the basic article, even much could be said about it. Of course, the second question is when journalists under cover of comment, either at the edge or below, is the current and I do not know what addresses they give, in fact, the report is published under this heading. Thus, in these records, there is often confusion and I find that journalists often do not know what commenting is and what reporting is. And if there's a matter that needs to be corrected in the commentary, why not? Why, though, would it not be possible to correct the comment, especially if something else was to be said under the cover of a comment? I have a simple proposal to conclude, and I have already said it once, and it has already been heard here today. Look, there's no need to tell the truth and there's no way to fix it. So if journalists try to write what actually reflects some objectivity, then there will be no correction. Editors will now be able to make decisions, and some journalists will also be rewarded by the number of corrections. After all, if there are many corrections, then those who write fill some medium with this content and then it is necessary to do less to the press to make the media meaningfully full. Thus, they may act in this way or vice versa, or they may say that a journalist with a lot of corrections does not comply with certain specific standards. This is their decision and they will decide for themselves. But I would say this quite to the end, that there is an untruth written for me personally, and that many of them at that time, what I have been doing in public, have been in some way the same way as an insult. Yesterday, at the LDS, you worked very hard to ensure that the injury was exempted from immunity. So I don't know how we would not advocate that the untruth, which in some way is an insult to the one who is hurting him, may have the right to correct it in an appropriate way on the same side to the same extent. It just doesn't work together and it's hard to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Rezman, replica, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u218	I have been mentioned and I must remind Mr Sok of what I have replicated. Already in the first part of today's discussion on the amendments to Article 3, I summarise, I do not have a magnetogram, you have said why the opposition is so committed and opposed to funding, but also to correction, because this will come to us as well, why we are so opposed. In short, here I have justified the reason that this is not a law dealing with the position and opposition, but with citizens and citizens. And another comment about your comment. It is now explicitly stated in the law that the right to correction and the answer to the correction also refers to a comment. The comment is a special journalistic type, interpretive, personal and represents a certain rounded position and is not given to anyone. Commenting or correcting comments can actually lead to literary, romantic and newspaper activity. And one more thing, the supposed writer of this chapter on correction, Mr Cloud, said in the informal talks on public presentations why you are so upset about this correction, or don't see how it can be done, not to say play, but to reject the correction, because the responsible editor will find niche in those lines that are listed, not so much "sex". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Can I help you, Mr. Secretary? Then I conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8. We are moving on to the debate on Article 13 and on the amendment of the LDS Group to this Article. Who wants a debate? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In fact, Article 13 summarises the thinking of a wide range of media professionals, journalists, editors and so on, which does not agree with the solution that it would be sufficient for a seven-day period of time for the body to be addressed for information to have seven days to provide journalists with the information they want. We suggest it makes sense for this time to shrink. We said for three days, maybe there would be a solution, if you were sufficiently thought out and debated, you could do better, but we summarized those opinions that have been expressed in the media, especially in the daily-information newspapers that need as soon as possible the important information that they want from the media. Speaking of correction, there's a responsible editor who has to answer within 24 hours whether or not he's going to publish and why he's not going to publish and how he's going to publish the correction that the client wants. I mean, on the one hand, quick hurry is required when it comes to the media, and on the other hand more or less, let's face it, to the state apparatus or to the other authorities, to give as much as seven days time to prepare an answer. Given that the army of civil servants is increasing and is not modest and that it is being paid for, it is likely that it also makes sense to step up the provision of this information. We know what kind of strange scenarios were once mediated when we saw how much the Ministry of Culture needed to give one information to the media that it demanded, not in days, but in months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought I'd call in the end, but I heard I couldn't. I would like to say what the Member State has said about three days in order to be enough to prepare the Ministry's response. I must first say that the law proposed for 2004 by LDS Members clearly states 7 days, and they themselves have proposed 7 days already in 2004. Besides, it's three days, we think, but it's a relatively short time. What's this all about? That the corps and the people involved in this work in ministries that are also employed in the Ministry of Culture should not increase as has been said, but have increased in recent years in particular. However, there is something that now this space is broader, more democratic and that there is a whole range of new and new, always new questions, journalists are literally asking us with questions, sometimes a person is surprised by this, as he would expect us to look at the web site, where all the explanations have been given, do not do so many times, and many of the services that are very modest, directly engaged in it. With a large number of questions raised by the outside world outside the Ministry, three days is really not enough time. Many times it happens that certain advisers are absent or that the Minister may be absent, etc., and in three days it is often very difficult to get a competent and appropriate answer for those who ask or ask. I think seven days is a very correct date. Now, even so, it was not stipulated in the law that another law spoke of twenty days. However, this law was not exactly mentioned and could in fact be extended indefinitely, although in my opinion the ministries have been working very hard to get answers relatively quickly, and now even within seven days, in my opinion, some particular effort will be made to get answers in time for those who demand an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you, Minister. Who else wants an article 13 and an amendment to Article 13? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 45 and the amendment of the LDS Group. Who wants a word? Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u224	In fact, there is no significant difference, except in the time limit, "3 months" we change to "6 months", but allow me to draw attention to the great dissatisfaction in our species with this amendment, which touches the functioning of the broadcasting world, as it has been preserved by this text that we have on the table. We do not agree with the way in which the Council is appointed for broadcasting, which is in fact very similar to the way that it is used in the appointment of the Council of RTV Slovenia, is the logic of the majority in the National Assembly, without the indirect role of competent professional institutions. On the committee we proposed a different appointment of the Broadcasting Council through intermediaries, through the university, through the society of journalists, through an economic chamber which has its own press and media department, through a cultural chamber and so on. On the committee, our wish and proposal were rejected because it was understood that the coalition did not trust the university, not the media association, not the society, but its 'plonk leaves', so the world will be as it will be. This amendment makes minor changes to this time required for coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We have already stated this very clearly and unequivocally on the Committee and have also argued why this change has taken place. In fact, there has not been much change, since the third paragraph of the existing law is very clear about what we are also setting up in marriage, so that it has been possible before and there have been no major differences. However, there have been some comments and concerns raised by the proposers about some organisations that we still do not know the people who are in these organisations. Not to get to know them personally, but some of them don't even perform functions. I think what we have proposed is very appropriate. However, that it does not alter or narrow the space in any way, because the law already in force in paragraph 3 clearly allows for what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u228	That's not true. The existing law speaks very differently to what is called the broadcasting world, if we speak of it, Mr. Secretary-General. Because the existing law says that seven members of the Broadcasting Council appointed by the National Assembly are proposed by Slovenian universities, namely candidates in the field of law, telecommunications, information; the Cultural Chamber, namely candidates in the field of audio-visual culture; the Chamber of Economics, and candidates in the field of economics; and the Society of Journalism and Communication. You have this indirect appointment, but you have removed their proposal, just as you have removed all civil and other institutions in the appointment of members of the RTV Slovenia Council. This is the same pattern and you have left the entire appointment or addition of Quiazu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The third paragraph makes it very clear that those who are experts in the fields referred to in the preceding paragraph can apply for this, which is clearly, clearly and entirely understandable to everyone. To remove what was done before, I don't think that's true. Everyone can sign up for this. And when there was a lot of talk about commissions, who called them and who didn't, Mr. Kangler said he thought it was practical. He didn't even know how to say it. You know, under the law, the minister has the right to appoint commissions. But it's about the fact that the commissions are impartial while they've been, and that they're naming people who aren't bound. And that's what we're gonna do. Now, whether the minister calls it a politician or a parliament, there are only two options. And if you think Parliament is a non-political body, then you're wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u232	I think we need to fix Mr. Minister. In fact, the difference is that if a policy is called, it is said that Parliament appoints someone proposed by a certain institution by a non-political key, its representative, and it is a choice within those already proposed; or if a choice between those that I have already said and must repeat is read on the 'plonk' sheet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. So, about the plonk leaves, I don't know what you're talking about. However, I could say that even after the third paragraph, any institution will now be able to propose only that the field is even wider. That's all. And that's a higher quality if it's a wider field. However, institutions may also propose an individual.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda of the 32nd item, or at the latest at 21.20 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 32. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DESCRIPTION PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON RELIGION FREEDOMS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, Mr. Chapar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! On 16 February, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law on religious freedom, which will rediscover the area of religious freedom in line with European and other modern standards and international instruments. One of the fundamental requirements of the democratic political system is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of guarantees for their realization. Among these rights are religious freedom and the right to freedom of conscience. Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the principle of State and religious separation, the principle of equality of religious communities and their free operation. Religious freedom and freedom of conscience are regulated by Article 41 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right of each individual to freedom of religion and other definitions in private and public life and the right of parents to the religious and moral upbringing of their children. The second paragraph of Article 16 of the Constitution does not permit any suspension or restriction of the rights listed there, including religious freedom as defined in Article 41 of the Constitution. By doing so, the Constitution places religious freedom in a group of specially protected constitutional rights that require absolute respect for their exercise. Furthermore, the Constitution prohibits discrimination based on religion or other belief, the promotion of religious inequality and the spread of religious hatred and intolerance. The Constitution further recognises the right to object to the conscience and the possibility of participating in the defence of the country in another way. The fundamental provision that now regulates religious freedom and the legal status of religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia is the Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities in the Republic of Slovenia of 1976, which was completed twice after its adoption, the last time in 1991 before the adoption of the Constitution. The reasons for the new law are many, and the most important thing is that, at legal level, the constitutional principle of religious freedom, as guaranteed by the current constitution, is being elaborated. The 1976 Act, on the one hand, is outdated and, on the other hand, is flawed because it does not address certain fundamental issues, does not define the procedure and conditions for registration, the register of religious communities, the concept of religious communities. In particular, there is a lack of regulation for the establishment of religious communities, since the law does not lay down any minimum criteria or conditions for their establishment, as is the case with other persons of civil law, for example society. A major flaw in the law is the failure to regulate the relevant registration procedure and the non-regulation of the register. Since the procedure for the application or registration of a religious community is not legally defined, it does not provide legal certainty and legal guarantees to religious communities wishing to register. The law primarily governs only the legal situation of religious communities, but not the rights arising from religious freedom as fundamental human rights, so it is essential that, in accordance with established standards at the level of law, we properly regulate the way religious freedom is exercised and the issues related to the free functioning of religious communities. The proposed new law on religious freedom is primarily aimed at regulating the way religious freedom is ensured and its individual and collective realization, regulating the legal situation of religious communities by eliminating the already mentioned shortcomings of the current regime. The bill consists of 7 chapters - General provisions and fundamental principles, Implementation of Religious Freedom, Registration of Churches and Other Religious Communities, Rights of Registered Churches and Other Religious Communities and Their Members, Competent Authority, Penal Provisions, Transitional and Final Provisions. The General Provisions define religious freedom, the prohibition of discrimination and the spread of religious hatred and intolerance, the principle of separation between the State and religious communities, the equality of churches and other religious communities, their general utility and the fundamental principles of the functioning of churches and other religious communities. Chapter Implementation of Religious Freedom. Article 42, paragraph 1, of the Constitution on general freedom of association also provides for the freedom to establish churches or other religious communities. The proposal for a law shall also specify the principle of freedom of action referred to in Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. As set out in Article 41(3) of the Constitution, the draft law defines the right of parents to the religious upbringing of their children and sets the age of a child of 15 as the so-called religious age. This chapter also defines the prohibition on the functioning of a church or other religious community. The draft law fully regulates the registration procedure, which is not compulsory, but is a prerequisite for the recognition of certain rights. The religious community may be registered if at least 100 full-year members of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or foreigners who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and have demonstrated the functioning of a religious community in Slovenia for the last 10 years. The law lays down what the registration requirement must contain and what proposals it must have and the registration procedure. This ensures the clarity of the criteria for registration, the legal predictability of the procedure and the protection of the rights of the parties in the proceedings before the competent authorities. If the church or other religious community fulfils the conditions for registration, the competent authority shall enter it in the Register of Churches and Other Religious Communities in the Republic of Slovenia, the Register shall be made public, its content being defined by the proposal of this Act. At the end of a church or other religious community or as a sanction for a violation of the Constitution, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia or the provisions of this law shall be deleted from the register. Although the proposed system does not force registration, due to the principle of legal certainty and the protection of third parties, it is only possible for registered churches or other religious communities to recognise certain specific rights guaranteed by the Constitution, international legal acts and law. They are provided with regular, individual and collective religious spiritual care in the Slovenian Army, the police, in detention facilities, hospitals and social protection institutions. They are granted the freedom to build and use premises and buildings for religious purposes and their recommendations and interests must be taken into account in the preparation of spatial acts. For their religious servants, who are the only professionals, they can apply for the right to dedicated state financial assistance from the budget to cover social security contributions. The law proposes that the State finance the contributions of the insurer and not more the employer's contributions than it has so far and more precisely lays down the eligibility procedure. The number of such religious officials is expected to be proportional to the number of members, the ratio of 1,000 members to one priest and the method of financing social security contributions. The draft law gives the right to finance from grants and other contributions from natural and legal persons and other voluntary contributions, as well as the possibility of financial subsidies from the State. The proposed law regulates more precisely the position and powers of the body responsible for religious communities. The law provides for a criminal provision that a registered church or other religious community or its individual constituent parts shall be liable for an offence if it uses a different name in legal traffic than it is registered, unless within the legal time limit it communicates the change in the data or annexes necessary for registration and provides the competent authority with incorrect information to decide on the rights of payment of the social security contribution. The competent authority is expected to establish a register of churches and other religious communities within three months of the entry into force of the law, in respect of which it has already been registered, is proposed to maintain the status of a legal person and to enter into the register, but if they have not already done so, they must, within three years, provide the competent authority with the basic data or material of their religious texts. They shall also retain the rights acquired to receive funds from those who have already received such funds from the State budget. It's about financial implications. So far, religious communities have received funds from the State budget to cover employers' contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance. The contribution of the State was gradually reduced to 15.94% from the highest level of 23.86% of the base, which was in 1992. This represents a percentage of 21.86%, a contribution to compulsory pension and disability insurance of 15.50% and a contribution to compulsory health insurance of 6.36%, i.e. this contribution of 21.86% proposed by this law does not reach the level at which the State has already co-financed these contributions. For the basis of the calculation of the contributions needed for 2007, we took the number of persons to whom the State paid its contributions in January 2006, 1043 of which is expected to be the average gross salary for 2007. It will therefore be necessary to provide 501 million tolars at the annual level. According to 2005 estimates, the payment of social security contributions under this Act in 2007 would require 453 million, the amount paid by the State for the same number of persons in 1992 would be 494, which is 41 million dollars higher than the amount required under this Act. It's a short story. In 2004, the Institute for Human Rights prepared professional bases for the normative regulation of the field of religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia. A comprehensive study on a total of 230 pages, including a draft law, can be found on our website. In March 2004, the draft law, which was an integral part of this study, was examined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Commission to address the open issues of religious communities under the chairmanship of the Minister of Mag. Ivan Biszak and concluded that there is an appropriate starting point for professional and intersectoral coordination. That was huge. A new government appointed a commission under the Presidency of Minister Lovra Šturm to deal with the issue in March and June 2005 and coalition coordination took place in September. During the preparation of the draft and during the coordination, the Office of Religious Communities has prepared several consultations of representatives of religious communities on the subject, and the law has been largely supported, as it improves the position and working opportunities of all churches and religious communities, and some comments have been made. Some churches, among them members of the world of Christian churches, supported him specifically and in writing. The solutions brought by the government law are a matter of long-term consensus among several governments, where the current biggest opposition parties have also been. The draft government law was confirmed by the Government's Commission for the Resolution of Open Issues of Religious Communities in 2004. For example, the ministers of the former government, Anton Grizold and Zdenka Cerar, introduced the religious spiritual care of the soldiers and hired a priest to provide spiritual care for the prisoners. Social security contributions from the priests were co-financed by all governments after independence and decades before independence. All of this gives hope that the regulation of this area will mature. In the area of religious freedom, Slovenia has taken some steps in the right direction and the adoption of the law on religious freedom will be one of the more important.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Director of the Religious Community Office. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u238	Dear President, the distinguished representative of the government. Most of the time, even this week, we were able to hear warnings about the separation between the state and the churches. It is often so far away that, for example, the Minister should not even meet with government representatives. But if I sum up some information from the public, the father of the Slovenian Constitution, Dr. France Bučar, referred to the famous 7th article as anachronism, which today makes no sense. When he touched on the specific Slovenian situation, however, he found that this term was often understood as the exclusion of the church from society, which he believed was even unconstitutional. However, the article on the separation of the church and the state is an integral part of our constitution, so the question of how to understand it correctly is at the forefront. According to the bishop, Dr. Anton Stresa, the Slovenian Church's separation formula in the Constitution is very classic and does not in itself dictate an enemy or friendly separation. The application of this constitutional principle is, in particular, a matter of a legislative tradition, a public opinion, depending on how we understand it. According to Dr. Stress, this has also begun to change in France, which has known for more than 100 years, and the situation is also changing in Slovenia when the unfriendly interpretation of separation between the church and the state gradually becomes more friendly. A new law on religious freedom, as proposed by the government, will also be able to do much to help, and this is an encouraging sign for a small country that must strive primarily for cooperation rather than for separation. According to a sociologist at the Faculty of Social Sciences, Dr. Franet Adama, the separation of the church and the state is an indisputable fact which must be established in a positive but not in an exclusive exclusional sense. Slovenian Metropolitan Aloyz Uran says: The State Community and the Church in their own area are independent and autonomous, but they serve both, although different by their mission, the personal and social professions of the same person. This service will be carried out more effectively in the interests of everyone, as well as their cooperation will be as healthy as possible. The separation of the State and the Church means, on the one hand, the autonomy of both, but at the same time, the openness and the desired possibility of urgent cooperation in the progress of the human person and the common good, as stated in Slovenian legislation by the parent agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Office on legal matters. It is with the implementation of this Agreement that Slovenia has deviated from the strict model of the principle of separation and also recognises cooperation between the two. Of course, it is a model that applies to all churches and religious communities, not just the Catholic Church. The country's separation and neutrality does not prevent it from having the same positive relations and forms of cooperation with churches and religious communities and joint efforts as it has with other civil society organisations in this regard. In addition, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia recognised to the religious communities the role of a community of useful institutions that perform an important social function. The Slovenian legislator also considers it generally useful if the institution is established for religious purposes, among other things, we read in support of this law on religious freedom. Therefore, in no way does the notion of separation mean that we have to build some kind of state church wall, as has already been tried with the previous proposal put forward by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Some colleagues have come from the view that one religious community, the Catholic Church in Slovenia, has such a monopoly that it is necessary to break. It's often shown even, you could call it a coalition church. The Law on Religious Freedom, which is before us, governs the exercise of religious freedom in both individual and collective enforcement, the fundamental principles of religious freedom, the legal position of registered other churches and other religious communities, the procedure for the registration of a church or other religious community, the rights of registered churches and other religious communities, the powers and powers of the competent authority in this area, and, like other laws, also criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions. Let me stop in the field on behalf of New Slovenia, on the two issues covered by this law and which have already aroused the most publicity in the public past. The first question is the paying of contributions to the priests. The undeniable fact is that the State is funding many non-governmental organisations from various areas in one way or another. It is also undeniable that the Catholic Church and other churches care for the preservation of cultural heritage, for they maintain many sacral buildings, which are proud of us all, both historical and architectural. The key role in this process is played by priests and locals who, through their work and voluntary contributions, restore churches and thus preserve this rich cultural heritage. Therefore, the role of the church in Slovenia should not be viewed only from a religious point of view, but much broader. Covering up contributions to all the work that the priest does within the environment in which he lives must not be disputed. This is about a person who lives his whole life, from morning to evening, available to the people in the environment in which he lives. It is right that, in return for its efforts in the community, at least minimum social security is guaranteed. Although the government initially felt that this social security would be a hundred percent, it has changed its position slightly to avoid some opposition later. The clergy play an important role within our society, and there is no denying that many people in distress run right into them. It's a profession that requires a whole man and a lot of cancelling. If someone decides on this profession to devote his whole life to the welfare of the community, it should not be a problem to pay social contributions by the State, in the opinion of New Slovenia as a whole, a hundred percent. It is also worth noting here the great role played by the church in preserving the cultural heritage in Slovenia, because it was thanks to the involvement of priests and with the help of the countries, citizens in Slovenian villages and all the hills that managed to preserve these beautiful Slovenian churches, this great sacral heritage. Another area governed by this law is the area of spiritual care in the military, police and other institutions, as the previous proposal is, if I say so by Gulič's law. The Law on Spiritual Care will make it possible to regulate an area that is important for improving the well - being of people who work in situations that may be mentally burdensome for an individual. We must be aware that spiritual provision means both moral and spiritual support in the event of personal distress in an environment where there is no contact with the family and where these pressures are common. The priest is never only in the service of his believers, but he is in the service of all who turn to him. Many people sometimes just need to have a conversation, so the function of spiritual care needs to be much broader in this context. From this point of view, this law certainly means a step forward. The law provides that a religious community can be established if it has at least 100 members and if it operates on Slovenian soil for ten years. If it fails to comply with these conditions, it may act as an unregistered religious community by failing to have its rights under this law to the extent prescribed. All of this and many other solutions in this law are a step towards normalisation in Slovenian society, so in Novi Slovenija we will support this law with some proposals. We will propose that social security for priests in the exercise of their mission be comparable to that of all other countries in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law on religious freedom in the first reading. In the Slovenian People's Party a few months ago, when we discussed the proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities of our fellow Member Gulic, we stressed that in Slovenia there is an urgent need for legal regulation of the area of religious freedom and of the religious community in accordance with established internationally recognised standards. As is widely known, we now have a valid and outdated law on the legal situation of religious communities, and the constitutional provisions only lay down fundamental principles, which all too often leads to different interpretations of religious freedom and the separation of the State from religious communities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this area needs to be fully regulated as soon as possible, but this fact must not be the reason for the adoption of a law that is to be created in the great cooperation of religious communities in Slovenia and should not be the result of the greatest possible consensus or majority support in most religious communities that reside or operate in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it is particularly important to point out that in the procedure of the National Assembly there is a review of the law on religious freedom prepared by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Religious Communities. The Office has drawn up a proposal for a law that, according to a government representative, has received the majority support of religious communities in Slovenia and is also the result of their opinions, proposals, comments as much as possible. Especially because this has already been said in the procedure of the law, which we think is a more appropriate basis for discussion and is primarily referred to as representatives in its preparation. It is important for the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposed law governs the exercise of religious freedom and the legal position of all registered and other religious communities in accordance with modern international and, in particular, European practices in the field of freedom of religion, in particular those principles, the principles are very important and the law covers all principles such as the principle of religious freedom and its inviolability, the principle of freedom of religion, the principle of freedom of teaching religion, the prohibition, discrimination on grounds of religion, the principle of separation of state and church or other religious communities or the principle of equality of the State, the principle of equality of churches or other religious communities, the principle of the free functioning of the church or other religious communities and the principle of the functioning of churches or other religious communities with the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the reasons why the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the above-mentioned proposal for a law on religious freedom in first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. In this mandate, the government coalition has already rejected two proposals for a law on religious freedom, as the whole concept is intended to be set on the wrong interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of State separation from religious communities. I'm asking you what's for this government, the state or the state. the government coalition's correct interpretation of the principle of religious freedom. Or is it that the church and its hunters are increasingly and in fact increasingly interfering with the country, i.e. the sphere that is separated from religious communities after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, even from the church. This law provides for the payment of social security contributions to all religious servants in full. Although the country is paying 42% of them now, the proposal of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which you have rejected twice, envisioned the suspension of such social contributions. So much for reciprocity, ladies and gentlemen. The State shall cover social security services from contributions paid. We pay citizens and citizens. All those who are employed, except for the church. The church is exempt from paying contributions or taxes. Whether you attach it or not, the church carries out its entire activity on the grey market. It receives undeclared charitable contributions to the benefactors or payers alone under our legislation, and the exercise of relief in the context of such humanitarian work is not allowed. Around the world, countries have this whole area. The law regulates the right to spiritual care in the military, the police, the prisons, the hospitals, the law that you rejected at the previous meeting, has abolished such care. The explanation given by the government; since soldiers are supposed to be deprived of religious care due to the restriction of freedom of movement or the limited availability of leisure time, the Kurat service should therefore be necessary. And I'm asking you, is that true? The army vicariate employs 11 persons who performed 60 baptisms, 20 weddings, and 20 funerals last year. At the same time, they advised on family, marriage, and child rearing. Unprofitableness of religious communities. In principle, it is also supported by this proposal, but the applicants have forgotten the previously mentioned grey market and the elements of control or control and sanctions, which would in fact prevent different abuses in the formal part. It should be noted that in the government proposal, religious communities have a tax-privileged position and at the same time draw state resources, while at the same time they may increase their profits in the capital market indefinitely. But societies that also have a non-profit status are getting a new marriage because of past abuses. So are religious communities really immune to abuse? The separation and the tax is the next area I'm going to touch. In the right state, the system of separation must not address religious issues. On the other hand, more and more often, religious communities, or churches, can deal with national and legal issues. Consequently, religious activities should also not be financed. The Constitutional Court has never established State funding for religious activities, but it has indicated that this is prohibited in countries with similar arrangements. Today, however, the state directly finances some religious media, even so far away. In the explanatory statement or in the work where comparisons are made with European countries, comparisons are extremely misleading. In one of the professionally processed articles we could read that comparisons of the Catholic weekly Family on the financing of religious communities with Germany, Austria, Italy and Croatia are misleading, as these countries have different constitutional arrangements as we have in Slovenia. They don't mention the United States of America. Hungary, which is also mentioned among comparable countries, is indeed comparable to Slovenia, but Hungary also regulates the religious area in this period. As regards the other uncertainties in the government proposal, it is not possible to understand the clear criteria for separation between the State and the religious communities. Given the dispersion of the legal system, this can lead to even greater inconsistencies. There is even a basis for the introduction of a synagogue in school, so far we have come to even talk today, out loud, about the establishment of the first church primary school. Well, I hope that when church education comes to public school, that the contents of this teaching will not leave the period of the Inquisition and that the period after World War II will not be shown as a Bolshevik revolution. As far as the constitutional provision on equality of all religious communities is concerned, let me mention only religious holidays. There are five Catholic religious holidays in Slovenia. Other religious communities do not have this option either now or in a government proposal that is supposed to be more equal and also follow the constitutional principle or the principle of equality of all religious communities in our country. Working relationships, next interesting area. Gender discrimination, religion and so on in employment in our country is not permitted. But religious communities can be exceptions when it comes to specific religious functions. The government's proposal knows the exception to religion, not gender. If the latter is not included, religious communities will be forced to choose between the legislation and their tradition, but more and more so the religious tradition is placed even above the law of the legal state of the Republic of Slovenia. The area of local self-government. The note from Sturmov, the Minister's material, states that the separation of religious communities and states does not apply at the level of local self-government. Here, I raise a public question related to the principle of the adoption of legal acts in our country. This Minister's note, respected colleagues and colleagues, is contrary to the concept of the country in Slovenian legislation. Once again, I will touch upon the interpretation of divorce as interpreted by the government. Dr. Sturm once said that the views of the Constitutional Court on this subject were contradictory, since the Constitutional Court of the Religious Community appointed them to be useful institutions in general, while establishing a very strict separation when it comes to the question of religious belief in public schools. Lawyers explain that the State, on behalf of the general benefit, can finance socially beneficial activities of religious communities, not religious ones. In the practice of the Constitutional Court, only the so-called Sturm Law applied the formulation of the common useful institution and explicitly limited it to the area of denationalisation only. As far as the construction of religious buildings is concerned, according to a government proposal, religious communities have the full freedom to build. The wall plans will have to follow them and Ljubljana will soon get its mosque. Otherwise, it was a power to understand from the words of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia months ago. The government therefore wants state funding for social security contributions from dedicated persons, employees and staff of religious communities. The government favours only one of the registered religious communities in Slovenia after this bill. The government wants the church as an important extension of the state even above the sphere of so-called civil society, and here I will remind you of the law on society. The government wants too much rights in terms of budgetary resources for the existence and functioning of trade in religious ideas. After all, the government also wants to have a criminally irresponsible religious community, which is due to the principle or respect of the principle of separation of the church from the state. I believe that in today's presentation of the views in the context of the first reading of the bill we will hear everything possible. At the end of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I will repeat the naked facts which make it against the adoption of government law in the form that it is before us today in the Slovenian National Party. The Roman Catholic Church is only denationalized, and it has not yet finished, earned or recovered property worth 28 billion Slovenian tolars. This is 100.175 average gross wages in the Republic of Slovenia or for 8 years and 4 months 1,000 new jobs or for 10 months and 10,000 jobs. Did the church really become another economic pillar in the country? As I have already said, we will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that when we talk about religion or infidelity, when we talk about churches or religious communities, about freedom, about equality and so on, we are talking about some phenomena, about phenomena that are social, historical phenomena. This is not something that would be written in some transcendent books, where we could look at what the real truth is, and then simply apply it and we could not be wrong. We stress that they are social, social phenomena and that they are constantly changing. Our role in this change is crucial. It is we who give preferences to one or the other, and it is we who should eventually find a compromise that is acceptable, so that we would not be more divided than bringing people together in some other, perhaps even more fundamental problems of our lives. We have tried to apply our attitude to this historic issue in our parliamentary group all the time, we have not changed it, and we have also presented it when we have talked about this kind of topic in the law signed by Mr Gulič and we have named it Gulič's law. At that time, our position was: No, the law was not suitable for further consideration. Not because it would be badly written because it would be excessively unconsistent or anything else, but because we have estimated that because this is happening in our society, it is not a good time, it is neither a proper political nor spiritual, nor a cultural or other constant, which would give us a real opportunity to agree on this, in such a change of law. When we gave up our support for that law, we thought about it and also said publicly that our relationship with the law that the government was preparing at that time would be exactly the same. We do not give our votes for this bill either, and we say that it is not suitable for further consideration. If, in the case of the law which we have already rejected in Parliament, we have agreed with the proposaler, at least mainly with the direction in which he pointed and at some basic point in the interpretation or in the understanding of constitutional provisions, then we must say that there is something different about this bill. The differences here are probably greater and we understand constitutional provisions quite differently. We understand quite differently the direction in which, on the one hand, the government leads with its proposal and the direction in which we would prefer to go. We agree, however, that fundamental freedoms, fundamental rights, must go the same way for everyone. To those who believe, to those who are not faithful, and to all those who are members of various confessions. It seems to us that this bill does not allow this to happen enough. It even seems to us that the category that I have listed has come into a situation where it will have to fight more and more for its equality and its right, not only for but also for freedom from, and that someone who is free from, will not be condemned, as if he were thinking wrongly, as if he had strayed from the soul as if he were being misled. We also have the right to be in exactly the same way as those who have an affirmative attitude towards religion to confession. This is not the case with the proposed funding method. In fact, it is a cross-subsidisation where taxpayers' money is contributed to the integral budget, where the name of the contributor is lost and its impact is lost on who will be involved. We can no longer influence whether these funds will go to one confesion, the other, the third or the fourth, and we cannot in fact in any way affect the distribution of these funds in any way, except in very indirect way, by means of this law. That is why we do not support it, and we feel that it will be the least harm if we do not change what we have now, because there are likely to be greater political and other complications than we would like, and there will be more controversy, not even such obsessive, unappreciable in this national assembly. We also estimate that some comparisons with cultural workers and others are not the most appropriate, because in culture mainly they finance tasks projectically, and so it should also be somewhere else and in culture does not separate what religion is one or the other which is the creator of culture. Therefore, it is unlikely that these comparisons will hold up or at least not fully withstand them. Such a bill, as we now have before us, has, as we estimate, little chance of being supported, as it had been before in the law. Only this can happen, I repeat, that the law will be passed if Members and Members are not in the Chamber when it is decided. Otherwise, it is unlikely that this proposal would be adopted, because at the declaration level things are such that it is not possible to provide majority support for such a proposal, but it would be bad if majority support were provided only on this basis that there would be many, as usual, in the Chamber when the decision was taken, missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u246	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Chapar, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that it is time, in accordance with established standards at the level of law, to properly regulate the way religious freedom is exercised and the issues related to the free functioning of the religious community. The foundation of our democratic system must be respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of a guarantee for their realization. Among these rights is religious freedom, which builds on the basis of democracy on mutual tolerance and understanding of people with different beliefs, and the systematic regulation of free religion will thus enable the realization of constitutionally guaranteed religious freedom. However, since churches and religious communities are an important part of civil society and public life, this area must also be regulated by a new law because of the breadth of their operation. Religious communities are expected to have, within the framework of today's democratic Slovenia, a recognised place, a role and a duty, as in most countries of the European Community. Article 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Community states that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. The proposal for a law on religious freedom, prepared in cooperation with ministries, government services, religious communities and other interested public, should therefore be a starting point for the establishment of a city of churches and religious communities in our country, where religious freedom and human rights are respected. The proposed law has been preparing itself for some time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have actively engaged in the substantive drafting of the law with the aim of remedying the shortcomings of the law so far, taking into account the principles, solutions and experiences of most of the countries of the European Community, so we believe that this time the proposed law is based on a proper interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of State separation from religious communities. The existing legislation, which was adopted in the early 1976s, in a different social order, is outdated and defective, as it does not address even some fundamental issues, and has pushed the religious community to the brink of society. In the fights of the 23 articles, the law gave them few rights, and everything else was forbidden. Thus it neither defines the concept of the religious community nor regulates their fundamental legal situation in Slovenia, such as the establishment of a minimum number of members, the establishment of an instrument or statute, which defines at least the purpose of the religious community, the content of its activities, internal organisation and external representation, membership, financing and so on. We support solutions to the proposed law that regulate the exercise of religious freedom and the legal situation of registered and other religious communities and are in line with modern, international and, in particular, European trends such as the principle of religious freedom, the prohibition of discrimination due to religion, the principle of the laity of the State, the equality of the church and so on, or the solutions brought by the general provisions of the law. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the principle of State separation from religious communities, lays down the principle of equality of religious communities and the principle of their free operation. However, the separation of the country from religious communities does not prevent Slovenia from having the same positive relations and forms of cooperation and joint efforts as other civil society organisations in this respect. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we advocate the principle of equality of all churches and religious communities and accept the visual diversity of all in Slovenia, but we argue that the country should be globally neutral and as far away from religion as it should be from atheism. Religious freedom is a personal matter for each individual and we are obliged to respect it as long as it is in accordance with the legal order of the State. We are obliged to respect the humanitarian, charitable, charitable, educational, cultural and educational work of religious communities of great importance to our society. In our Group of Members, we stand for the principle that every individual in this country must have human and civil rights that follow the Constitution, and he is the only one who can and must decide on his or her religious beliefs, and the country is obliged to create conditions and opportunities for the right of religion to live and develop it in a peaceful manner. With the preparation and adoption of the new law, political disagreements have delayed for a very long time, so today it is reasonable to expect that this law will be adopted in a spirit of dialogue, mutual respect and tolerance, regardless of the different viewpoints, and we will look, in view of the sensitive area, to see that the law will not be ideological, but stately, and that we will not come from ideological, but state-level origins in the debate. Therefore, when adopting this law, let us act wisely and wisely, as a healthy society of cultural and moral maturity. For all of the reasons stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law on religious freedom is suitable for further consideration, and we will therefore support such a decision. However, in the next course of the adoption of the law, we will also support any additions that we will consider to be further improving the individual substantive provisions of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u248	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have carefully and carefully reviewed the law proposed by the government or the government. Maybe even more than that text deserves. But before you read the text, you don't know everything or you don't. In fact, some people knew how good this marriage would be before and how bad the law I proposed twice was. Even one of the high - ranking dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church said in an interview that my marriage was communist, purely distasteful, even though it did not read it, and that he supported it, even though he did not read it. The views of the applicants and, of course, of the proposals they come from are very clear. The Slovenian Constitution, in its provisions laid down by the State, requires it to establish appropriate conditions for religious democracy. The proposal that we are considering today in the first reading is quite different from this requirement, far from it, since it strengthens the monopoly of one religious community and in many ways gives it the status of the State Church. The only thing missing is that it says it's a state church. They don't call the beans beans, they don't just call the beans in that position, they don't call them beans. The government proposal gives everyone an advantage because this religious community has already achieved, received and acquired it. The Roman Catholic Church is thus the first church, and in some ways it places all others aside, and some of the larger ones, of course by law, are being bribed, says the Orthodox, Evangelical and Muslim religious community, and more than 30 other small religious communities and their believers are being forced and pushed into a third-rate position, at the edge of society and still longing. Moreover, of all citizens, religious and non-believers, there are also deprived believers, the requirement that the highest and richest religious communities pay social contributions, religious media, other religious activities and some that may or may not have any connection with religion. The history of contributions to the operation of the dedicated persons of these religious communities shows that the state paying social contributions has been introduced by such a strong and repeatedly spat state of the communist state and that this proposal is, of course, by no means giving up these present gifts. This is a very materialistic view, which is actually surprising, even vulgar materialistic. The country that introduced this in the 1980s did not do it out of any special kindness, that is clear to us, and not without reason. Through the repeated spitting of Cyril-Method's society, she wanted to control the Catholic priests politically, according to money, with some gifts. Now, the question that is being asked, what does this country want, what does this religious community want, which through its laymen, knights, and, I don't know, what kind of name holders still show great affection for this manon connection. In the years following the independence of Slovenia, these formal matters were not actually dealt with, but in some ways continued to be financed after the 1991 Executive Council of the Republic of Slovenia, and - everything was quiet. At the same time, however, the largest religious community received returned property, a very large asset that could slowly activate and activate it. In a democratic situation, when we say that social assistance for social transfers, social privileges should in some way only be justified by poverty. Since this country is regulated and is increasingly being regulated or at least trying to be, all poor and poor people need to demonstrate that they are entitled to aid. Every unemployed, every unemployed, everyone on the social side must prove it day after day, monthly, for every year, for every tolar they receive. But after this proposal, one would not have to do that. Not only to individuals, but to the whole institution. Only some status will be sufficient, which will be defined as permanent and, of course, very, very rarely taken away. Here there is a great inequality between citizens, between institutions and one of the religious communities or its consecrated persons are exempted regardless of other property, whether it is very clear, public, hidden, hidden or otherwise. The question is why their social contributions should be paid by all taxpayers, including atheists and others who do not have a special relationship with this religious community. I must say that even now, and in my proposal, the religious communities have already been able to receive state money to carry out so-called socially beneficial activities that are not religious in nature. And that's the way it is. In the part that my predecessor said, in the last part, I could agree with much if all that was desirable there was said as a "nai" in fact in the proposal of this law, but not all of this, all of these desires, all of these high thoughts in this law. Since the law is essentially unconstitutional and because it deprives a considerable part of the Slovenes and Slovenes, and because it places only one religious community on the pedestal and all others on the ground, we will therefore vote against this law in the Liberal Democracy or vote that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We also agree in the Group of Social Democrats that after almost 30 years of the adoption of the current Law on Religious Communities, we are expected to think that we need a new law. However, the fact that even 15 years after the independence and modification of the foundations of the social and political system, without any major problems in ensuring the rights of freedom of conscience and religion, as regards the principle of separation of the church and the state and the equality of religious communities, shows at least two at 30 years of age. First of all, its content and thus the issue of the situation and rights of religious communities, especially the question of freedom of religion, has not been so badly and unacceptablely regulated so far as many people want to simplify. Secondly, that any new legislation in this area raises a number of issues not only specifically Slovenian but also present in many other countries in which they want to regulate these relations in accordance with the modern principles of separation between the State and the Church, so that the Church and the religious community are genuinely engaged in spiritual matters and are completely free and independent in these matters, that their interference with the circle of issues of public and general social importance can be regulated by the State with its rules, including work concerning the functioning of churches and religious communities in this area. This was also the question that has been most frequently discussed so far when we addressed the situation and rights of religious communities in so-called mixed areas of action. In areas that are highly public and general social issues in modern societies, in which the church also has its own interests and its established role. In particular, it is some forms of social assistance, education and education for information activity, part of culture, for the participation of representatives of religious communities in public decision-making bodies, under conditions to be provided by the State for the exercise of these interests, and in particular for material conditions and obligations to be established between the State and the religious communities regarding the financing of the church and its activities. With regard to most of these issues, admitted or not, the Slovenian public is still quite divided and divided today because it feels and accepts that the debate on the freer situation of the church in public life is certainly justified, but knows and sees that expectations are primarily Roman Catholic Church and that the willingness of the vast majority of ruling parties to please these aspirations is much wider than the willingness and understanding, role and position of the church in most citizens and citizens. This is especially true of the intervention of the church in the public sphere, of the special benefits it has already acquired and still awaits with regard to the material situation. Its expectations are to interfere with the sphere of education and education, the evaluation of social issues, as well as the history of special rights to be guaranteed to the believers. Above all, for the growing feeling that the social atmosphere, in which only faithful people will have true faith, is increasingly being created, as far as possible, and only true religion. Such an atmosphere of discomfort and public pressure against all who have doubts or think otherwise has also contributed to the debate so far on religious freedom and the situation of religious communities, as well as to the content of this law. At least the following can be said about the marriage. The law will not contribute to the implementation of the constitutional principle on equality of religious communities, on the contrary, the religious communities will divide into registered and unregistered, give them different rights and opportunities regarding the financing system, influence in public life, possibilities for providing religious care, direct co-financing of their activities by the State, etc. In this respect, the law explicitly favours something, and above all one religious community in Slovenia. Next. The law extends the forms of co-financing of the activities of religious communities by the State. It provides for the employment and payment of priests in public authorities and public institutions. It provides for the payment of contributions to all the priests of the largest churches and to the smaller ones. It foresees an expansion of the activities of religious communities in public services, in practice it already runs in the field of age, social and child protection, and it is also envisaged in the field of private education and health, as well as in the military and police. Furthermore, the vague solutions included in existing legislation do not remove the law, but only further deepen it. This applies to all matters of the exercise of religious freedom and religious belief in institutions where freedom of movement is disabled or hampered, as well as in the military and the police. Thus, with regard to the military and the police, after the adoption of this law, the exercise of religious freedom will be regulated even twice, once in the defence or police law, twice in this law and twice in different ways. This will apply to other activities of public authorities and public services. All in the face of solutions that certainly indicate additional obligations of the State, although the very confused explanations of the government regarding the part of the financial obligation in this law do not state this. The law contains many provisions which, in our opinion, do not belong in law at all, as they define the content of the functioning of religious communities in areas that cannot be the content of the law, because the inherent thing is the church itself. It is very questionable whether the law provides for such a content of the definition of religious communities as generally beneficial organisations, since this concept defines certain activities of the church, which the state cannot and cannot assess, for example, which churches advocate spirituality and human dignity, which it does not, for the purpose of designing residence and the like, and can therefore be generally useful and financed by state resources, while others are not and cannot be co-financed by the state. There are, therefore, many issues that have led us to mention in the previous discussions that it would require a more comprehensive study and a greater social consensus. We also drew attention to the distribution of the Slovenian public on these essential issues, which are the content of the law. Thus, as regards the application of the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities, which is far more consistent with most citizens and citizens than is already being practiced today, not only under the proposed law. With regard to the increasing influence it receives and wants to increase the church in public life, in the means of public information. As regards the assessment of certain issues, lifestyles such as marriage, family relations, child rearing, issues of public morality, attitude towards abortion and the like. With regard to specific material rights and at the same time exemptions in the field of taxes. However, the government has not responded adequately or advocates only its views. The government should, not only with representatives of religious communities who normally support solutions that give them a better position, but also with some other companies, religionologists, sociologists, lawyers, the broadest debates and coordination. Above all, we should ensure that the law is well-adopted and understood as an advanced solution between the vast majority of citizens and citizens who deeply appreciate freedom of conscience and religion, respect the religious feelings of everyone and their desire for free confession, have no doubts about their organised forms of association and expression of faith, but who do not agree that the church wants to influence and judge their interests, their values, their conduct and their judgment as to who is more right and who is less right. This and such views apply entirely to our party, who wants these questions to be settled for all, believers and unbelievers, for all religious communities. However, many people are also afraid of negative experiences, and not so long ago, that the church will once again become an influential or decisive factor and judge on public and social issues that do not concern belief. Fear because they are aware that, as a rule, the church has not been tolerant in the past and that it has not been comprehensible to the views of others, but has demanded respect and enforcement of its views and values also through moral pressures and methods of elimination. When it has power, it is harshly realized. And we don't want to go back to that kind of division. Therefore, it will not be good if such an important law is adopted by a minimum majority, this is precisely the part of the government majority, who may be able to provide such a minimum majority, should not want and should consider it. There is still time, perhaps, but Members of the Social Democrats we declare that we will not support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u252	Thank you very much. First of all, after these introductory presentations, I must express my hope that we should also prepare ourselves for something to move in this area, especially to those who so strongly opposed the content of the proposed law. I believe, as well as in New Slovenia, that we today have a content of the law that recognizes that the religious dimension of a person is one that is essential. And I'm sure this is a welcome novelty for our society after decades of ideological indoctrination, I'm talking about the law. This will also help, because I still think and hope that the law will be passed, that things will also start to move in a normal direction with us, as they are normal elsewhere in the world. And it is very important to me in all of this that we express the obedience we use to help people breathe more freely. When we receive our tables and empty pamphlets in electronic drawers on religious issues or when, for example, listening to the position of a national party, we need to be even more aware of how vital it is to create conditions for transparency and also for information on matters, including the content of the law. And it's amazing to me here to think of what kind of plankness is still present in some. I don't know if you may have read that letter we received from Mr Kosi to our e-mail addresses. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, especially for Slovenia, where there are many forms of leicism as a state religion, it is difficult to deny much interest in religion, even taking into account the fact that a large number of registered religious communities are involved. Of course, one of the hot ones is the ratio of religious communities to the state, and as I see it, we will be here before the big mature exam. And I hope that we can rightly hope that the times of totalitarian interpretation of this issue have been considered. With the adoption of the Law on Religious Communities, I therefore expect normalisation in this area as well, and I think that this would be at least a minimal consensus on that definition of separation between the State and the religious communities. To illustrate, this means, of course, that cooperation between the State and the Bindents does not yet constitute an involvement of the State in them or vice versa. In view of the above, it is appropriate, inter alia, that the chaotic situation finally begins to be regulated by legislation, and I also welcome in this regard the proposal for a law that we are considering today, so I will support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. I will not forgive myself in advance, but I will say that I will rank myself as a category, that I do not belong to a group of planned citizens of Slovenia, even though I will be uncritical to the law itself, but I still say that it is time for some things to be corrected, and I will talk about two things. As is now written in a law that has some consistency, I am referring to it as a group of laws that in some way legitimizes injustice and, on the other hand, takes away the right already acquired when we talk about freedom or religious freedom. In view of the proposal for a law on religious freedom put into the parliamentary procedure by the Government, the view of the guarantee of human rights as an essential part of European cultural tradition and the freedom to unite is rather questionable and, I will say, incorrect. Therefore, it is only a question of whether the writers of this law wrote this law for and for the benefit of greater religious freedom in Slovenia, for the benefit of the believers, for their ability and the right to choose, for religious choice, for and for the benefit of certain religious institutions and their oligarchies, of course with special attention and affection for the greatest - and here I will say - even the largest church in Slovenia, it is the Roman Catholic Church. Perhaps the content of this proposal would be completely different if the composition of officials at the Office for Religious Affairs were already more religiously plural and not so uniform. And since the writings of this proposal were dominant, as I said, one church as an institution and not a religious freedom and a religious community, there was a situation where the position of the church and a much less religious community were clearly prejudged and privileged in marriage. This is clearly seen by the registration of the religious community itself when new conditions are introduced, which so far were not available - a hundred full-year-olds and - think! - ten years in Slovenia. So if you want to register as a religious community, you have to act as an unregistered entity for ten years, which, of course, is nonsense. This is a deliberate restrictive condition of registration, in my opinion and my belief, to prevent so many times religious pluralisation in Slovenia and free choice of religious definition. Otherwise, you can register under the company law, based on freedom of association. The question is how will you prove as a religious society in ten years' time to the Office of Religious Communities that you have served as a religious community in this Slovenian space for ten years. If society were subject to a similar restrictive measure, which we will discuss tomorrow - there is also the exercise of freedoms and the right to an interest association, which also belongs to the category of freedom to religious, I say, this category, this group - today almost 20,000 entities would not be registered in Slovenia or that I am even more precise, even the Roman Catholic Church or their farm could not register under the company law as institutions that can compete in public funds contracts, for example, as this spring, for four homes for the elderly. This introduces an unacceptable method and way of distinguishing between religious communities and dividing them into those who are useful and those who are less or less not useful at all. And this will be evaluated and decided by the administrative authority. The result is clear: discrimination against non-registered and registered religious communities. Only registered religious communities are entitled to state donations. And even here the privileged are particularly greater, as the bill has been written. It is clear that these legal definitions will not affect the majority but not the religious figures who are already established, who already have power and monopoly, but the opposite. Those who are small will be affected by marginalities, which may also in some way be oppressed or ridiculed by this law. As in today’s media, I hear from some representatives of some major churches. If the law itself brings problems to some in the exercise of religious freedom, on the other hand, the law itself brings benefits and benefits. Let me be illustrative again. The State's financial contributions to religious communities on the basis of the ratio between the number of religious officials and the number of believers, for example, that contributions to social security will be paid only to those religious servants whose church will have 1,000 believers or operate on Slovenian soils for 80 years, is extremely unfair, is undemocratic and is an unfair condition. On the one hand, the conditions for the enforcement of religious belief, religious freedom, when it comes to new and restrictive conditions for registration, and on the other hand, the larger churches are progressively increasing conditions and state aid. I'm not going to mention it because it's consistently done through all the articles. I will only mention Article 26, given this criterion of proportion of priests and the number of believers to the priority right in applying for construction plans and so on. From the one who doesn't, we'll take the rights, and we'll add financial aid to the one who already has that right. That's my résumé, just like the law is now written. And that is why it is more than clear why the applicant has not introduced into this law more than 10 years old a proposal which has also now been sent to the drafters of this law to reintroduce in Slovenia the same as they have in Italy and some other countries, not the church tax, but that the taxpayer could freely decide who will contribute 1% of his income to. In this case, all these concerns, which I myself have listed on these specific privileges, would be overturned. The matter would be transparent, people would not be forced to give this or that religious community, for they could choose to give this percentage to another humanitarian organization. But only then would it actually be seen, and here is the reason for how many individual churches or religious communities of believers or their adherents have. This is the most transparent, most reliable information. Today, even through this law, when we put anchors, I will not say in mind, but on the basis of some research, some censuses and so on, which have been done in the past. Let me get this straight. I am alone on the side of those who are closer to God than the church, because the church has done this in history and is doing it today, will bless only those who bless it. In short, this bill binds, squeezes, and, of course, at the same time unties, sacks for the big ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u255	Mr. Rezman has the word, he's cancelling. Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is the first review of this Law on the Religious Community, which was prepared by the government and sent to the procedure of the National Assembly. We had already rejected the so - called Gulic Law, and we had already talked about it. I understand that we can be so different here, because there is obviously not enough tolerance and understanding between us among people, including the different views on this area, which can be so coloured and the respect of others is also one of the values of a Member, any option. I am sure that today's debate, which has excited a little bit, I will say, different views, we need to calm the ball down a little bit, step on it, after football, and say the story ahead. I think there is still a lot on the way to correct this kind of thing if some things in this proposal of government law are not right for you. I believe that certain amendments can also be made through committees and possible amendments if they are, of course, appropriate. But I'm sure it's the right thing to do. I think it is inconvenient that, as it is, it is not appropriate for the Slovenian State to have this arranged in other European countries much ahead of us, and it is also right that we do this. I would like to see it done in such a way as to ensure that those of you who are unfaithful are as well coordinated as possible and that as many Members as possible can support it, that would, of course, be my great wish, I fear that this will probably not happen. I hope that most will go this way and also try to respect the opinions of others. The reason, I think, is more than enough for us to go to this material and to resolve it as successfully as possible, that this is an important area for every European country, as well as for every Slovenian country, which I think is important for society as such, and this should be for every local community. I don't know what the experience is with you other fellow mayors, I can only say that in a local community where we have the right relations each in our own part of the mission, the church in our own, the congregation as such in our own and that we work together in a exemplary manner. The church is not involved in municipal affairs, the municipality is not involved in church affairs. But we try to do as much together as possible with that part of the common mission, such as preserving a cultural heritage that is rich, at least in our congregation, to leave what we have received from our ancestors, including our children, to our grandchildren as appropriate an inheritance as possible. Here I see that common cooperation we have and that we may occasionally meet at such and other meetings not to discuss this or that. I do not think that the country at this level will have a significantly different relationship. That those minimum rights, which, according to my assessment, even those involved in this mission may receive from this country, but I don't think we are doing a lot of good to the churches. Of course, I hope that, through discussions forward, through the second and then through the end, we will find some consensus, and we will try to bring these things together as best as possible and to find as much consensus as possible in this national assembly, that this important material, which we have been trying for quite some time, we are trying to successfully complete. I think it is right that the church also has the right conditions, that it can operate in its mission, that it works for as many of our citizens of this Republic of Slovenia as possible, and it is right that the country, Parliament, too, listens to this area and that there are some appropriate conditions. Of course, it is parliamentary democracy that we are trying to look at what is in some environment, what is ideological, try to pour this into a common space and draw up such a law that will be as optimal for all of us here in Parliament as possible, and especially for all of the users of this law and, believe me, for a large part of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u258	Thank you. The title of this law is promising, and Article 1 is also intended to guarantee religious freedom. However, the executions in the articles show that what is foretold is not realized, for as dealt with in the law, everything is made not out of respect for the individual’s free decision on how he will believe, if he believes at all, but the law applies only to believers, but it is also very important how powerful, how great, how recognized a religious community an individual belongs. And that's what I'm reading to this marriage and which is why I'm not supporting this marriage. It does not guarantee that the historical role of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia would be treated equally with respect to the historical role of other religious communities in Slovenia. In fact, I refer to the record of a column in the Family in which the day of the Reformation was declared a holiday of socialist clericalism. And that's what this is all about. When we go to Europe, they do not promote religious education and education in Europe, but education for tolerance among religions. However, if we want to achieve this patience, we must not base our conscience on the multiplicity of individual religion, which is better than all because the only believer provides everything that the believer expects of it, both side and side of his life. I therefore wonder how an unbeliever will be dealt with from the point of view of this law, because under this law he will have to participate in the care of those who believe and those who care, but not all have the same rights. For example, religious care in custody, when you look at it, is clearly in a privileged position of Catholics, no longer the Gospels. And if they're in prison, but we're talking about human rights, we're talking about religion being a personal matter, I quote, an important Slovenian church dignitary, a professor, a dean of theology, that religion is a personal matter that we shouldn't be asking questions about. I'm sorry, you have to ask yourself, considering how certain things are foreseen in this law. And finally, the Roman Catholic Church, when it speaks of its limbs, speaks of when one becomes one and how one can get out of it. And I would just ask a rhetorical question, and I don't expect an answer. Article 2, paragraph 3, states: "No one shall be forced to become or remain a member of the church." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I think it is good that we have finally received a proposal for a law that deals with this issue, because after the adoption of the Constitution there is actually a lot missing and there is also a need to be defined by legal provisions. In fact, so far it has not been desirable for matters to be regulated in this area, as in many other areas, of course. For 15 years it has not been the wish to regulate the issue of Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and we have finally settled this. After 15 years of independence and democracy in our country, however, it has been so long that we have forgotten about that part of education when we were taught that religion is opium for the people. And now that we've been through it in this historic time, I think it's mature enough for us to be able to talk seriously about this issue. It is important to say that, throughout the history of the Slovenian people, the Roman Catholic Church has played a historic role if you want, even so that we have a country of our own today and that we have remained in this area for 15 centuries. I am convinced that without excellent teachers, poets, writers, educators, and, above all, they were priests in one person, there would be no such thing, and the question is where they would be today. It is important to say that even in our half-lived history, when so much iron time was also available for the Roman Catholic Church, for believers, as well as for those who were still Roman Catholic with their heart and soul, and out of service, work and so on had to be in another organization, they suffered enough to maintain and help preserve, in some way, their own contributions, this historical value of both the historical and cultural heritage of our nations, and so on, with hands and with their own contributions, they preserved substantially more than those who had power and money. Finally, it is important to say that the Roman Catholic Church is through appearance, through work with the youth, through work with the elderly, disabled, etc., showing and teaching in this way some values such as help, love, keeping in touch with the fellow man even when he needs it most. It just seems to me that some people, filling up what the budget and taxpayers will be and how much it will cost, etc., have not read the financial consequences of this law. It is clear that if funding remained in the form it had been in 1992, we would have actually spent more money than it would have spent on this law. This is a share of 21,680% or 40,000 tolars per month, which is based on the average salary to be calculated, i.e. for 2007. I think that the drafters of this law have been extremely tolerant and in fact have been very broad-minded, and given that this law is so wide-ranging, where you can see all inside, all religious communities, not only Roman Catholic, but you should not be bothered if these citizens and citizens are the most. The definition, you say, is free, and even those who are defined as Roman Catholics, leave them this freedom and do not be disturbed by it in particular. That is why I will also support such a proposal for a law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. In the Law on Religious Freedom, we should primarily talk about how to help those who do not have the means to achieve this freedom and follow the task that we can somehow pursue through the distribution of public funds. Therefore, if we are already making public funds, we are dedicating them to carry out positive discrimination. This law answers in its articles exactly the opposite of solutions, creating differences between religious communities. Those who do not have their own resources will have even greater difficulty in carrying out this religious activity, and those who have more will have greater ease. In fact, this marriage is more about money and influence. Religious freedom is, in fact, in a completely different way. However, if we are talking about money and influence in this law, we should also talk about resources that need to be ensured so that public funds are not burdened by unnecessary means. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the proposal of the Evangelical Church, which suggests that if we already finance religious communities and churches, we should also finance it with new resources. And this new source is certainly an income that can be paid by any individual or by a specific religious community, the church or an integral budget, if it does not agree with any of these religious communities. This is how I expect the law to be drafted in the following way that it will also talk about resources, and that it will take into account, in particular, the wealth situation of the church and of the religious communities. In the current situation, when we find that there has been an enormous amount of property returned to the church, I would expect the financial consequences on public funds to be reduced. This is not the case, but the pressure is even higher, so we should in fact take into account the individual church's assets and income from this property, which are also incomes from various funds, through shares in companies, through shares in banks. If we had all these incomes ahead of us today, we would certainly be discussing completely differently who and how much to give and why to give. I think that the applicant in this law should in particular produce transparent data on the financial functioning of the church and all religious communities, which also have their own revenues. This would be an adjustment to the state, to the national assembly, to the government, but we don't really know, we're talking about something, we're giving money, but we don't know why and how, because maybe any of these churches actually don't need any additional resources. But somehow I miss a solution to talk about how we are primarily trying to solve the problem of rural priests. The biggest problem at this point is certainly in the rural area, where the population is not enough to be able to maintain the gifts and taxes they give, this rural service, but the law does not speak of it. It speaks generally of the need to give some money, but we do not know whether it will be money or to what extent it will go to support the country’s priests. And this is this positive discrimination that I somehow miss in this law and I expect the proposer to bring this solution into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to funding, I fully agree with the predecessor. When I read the title of the law, the proposal for a law on religious freedom, I would say that we now lived in religious non-freedom if we listened to the debaters before that. After 10 years of ideological indoctrination, people breathe freely, the tanning of those who oppose the law, the iron time for the church until 1990, perhaps some of it was even true. I have many friends who are faithful and who have been faithful in the previous system. Individuals were secretly helping the church. In secret, they helped because they did not want to do it publicly because of the work they were doing, because of the work they were doing. However, after the change of the system in 1990, they almost kicked those true believers out of church buildings when they once relaxedly started going to these church facilities. The applicant stated among the reasons for the adoption of the law that the new legal regime was inextricable. I might even agree with that if I did not know that the church was functioning perfectly at this point. The reason for not accepting this law, one of the reasons given is political disagreements, which remain today. Of course, because it is difficult to agree to logic, we are all equal, and one is slightly less. Regarding assets, I have already said that I agree with the need to identify the financing of assets. Certain things have taken place in recent years, which have a significant impact on the property situation of the individual church and it would be appropriate to take this into account in financing. The best thing would be what the evangelicals proposed, a tax that taxpayers freely devote to either the religious community or the church or perhaps humanitarian activities or to no one, but then the funds become an integral part of the integrated budget. I see from this law that what has already been introduced is in fact confirmed. In my opinion, police need better equipment to avoid the danger of being too close to the outside, too often, to the spiritual supply that all residents or residents can obtain in their free time. Hospital spiritual care - several times now I have observed or visited the hospital and observed how this is happening. There are patients who need this spiritual care and who are right to have it, but there are others who are disturbed by this spiritual provision. It will probably be necessary to coordinate this matter better. So one's right, another's in the way. And regardless of religious affiliation. In addition to religious affiliation, this disorder is only escalating. But I can't explain to myself how when all the churches or religious communities that will be registered will have their priest in the hospital department, if I say only four: the evangelical, the Catholic priest, the Islamic, the Orthodox. There's gonna be more priests in the department than doctors. If this thing goes this way, we're gonna cause a lot of commotion. I think that there is still a need to think about this law and to come up with a better proposal, with greater support from all political parties and also from those working in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Religious Freedom, as has already been mentioned many times, is necessary because the marriage solution so far has become very outdated, does not reflect the spirit of time, and was, in fact, based on the basis of a system which provided that members of religious communities are second-rate citizens. However, despite such a need, I see a lack of understanding that the modern law, which is written by law, which flows the principles of the Slovenian Constitution into marriage solutions in a very consistent and very precise way that many oppose such a law. In fact, it is likely that the law will reduce the gray field in this area and that the legal articles contain principles or solutions that may have been written at times, but they have not been fulfilled, but they have not been in law. For example, the state must be neutral with religious beliefs, as stated in Article 4, and the state must not be asked about religious issues. How important the legal provisions are, yet we face opposition! I must say that I have heard quite a few thoughts today, which they can see that indoctrination, which stems from a Stalinistic attitude towards expressing religious feelings, is still extremely strong and profound. Dogmatic views are still alive, so I am not surprised that some refer to the division of Slovenian society, and that because of the distribution of Slovenian society, because it is not yet ready to look at this area from a modern point of view, the reason is that we will not either support this law or should not accept it or something like that. The separation they have consciously created is now the basis for a negative attitude. And in fact, it's a worrying thought. You would expect that in 16 years of democracy, there has already been some movement in consciousness, that old dogmas no longer apply. And look, I think that the Stalinist approach needs to be abandoned, it needs to be rejected and abandoned, because it has done a great deal of evil both in us and in Europe, not to be promoted. I simply wonder why in Slovenian society not everyone advocates the most tolerant relationship between believing and unbelieving agnostics, atheists. But it is in the common interest of all of us. When some stress a great deal of concern for small religious communities that do not have their own resources, it should be said that even those more tabulated religious communities in Slovenia have reached 99% with donations. That the people had given, the one was taken away, the one was nationalized, and then one was reprimanded today that something had been returned. I suggest that, for example, you persuade Mr Jankovic that a nice little religious community will donate its assets, which he saved in Mercator in eight years. He bought a million and a half shares every day. At the moment, that religious community will be the richest in Slovenia and the strongest. I think that's a solution. There are also some of these in Slovenia that have been successful in recent years. Let each of these religious communities donate, for example, property, and we will have the very rich religious communities in Slovenia. After such donations have fallen, the situation in society will certainly be better. Also with regard to religious care in prisons, which members of the religious community will have at their disposal, for example, I am convinced that even those who are supposed to be atheists or agnostics are in prison, that he will eventually like it better if he has the opportunity to talk voluntarily, of course, with some representative of a religious community who knows much about it, rather than being a representative of an occult sect there. I think that in Slovenia, in general, this is more acceptable and I do not understand this emphasis that the very last sect, and those religious communities that have actually contributed to this country, should contribute to the justification of this country and its tradition, to the culture, so that they should be written in the same way per millimeter in every article of the law. I don't understand that. I think that, by the third reading, these parties will also change their views in order to realize that the promotion of second-rate citizens of religious communities in the third millennium is no longer appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Well, then I could say the introduction might be just, listen and learn and, of course, do not walk in the same steps. More than sympathetic religious communities, at least in my opinion, it would make sense to donate to sick and socially disadvantaged people. There are many of these in Slovenia, but humanitarian contributions are needed. In the spirit of democracy, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not wise at all from the position of the government party to report to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who in his letter reminds Members and Members of the matter which bothers him, I will say, of the violations. It is a letter in which a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia warned of the noise of church bells. I believe he's not the only one being disturbed. To talk about lack of visibility, limitations, that is, according to the dictionary of the Slovenian book language, planning. It's not wise, even if you've read this letter. I'm sure this citizen knows a lot about the history of the Roman Catholic Church. I would like to point out that today, on the part of the Slovenian National Party and the other two opposition parties, I have not heard any evidence of restrictions on freedom of religion. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. It is not a problem to prohibit State interference with the religious field; the problem is the excessive interference of faith in the country, even in the country, which makes it possible to do so. I believe that a lot of people are aware of the excessive emphasis on freedom under this law, so I'm going to say a little humorous, if you breathe too freely, you're going to hell, which is why this freedom has to be restricted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! With all due respect for Christians and other religious communities, I will not support this law alone. This is not because it is unconstitutional and requires, for example, the identification of the individual religious community, or anyone who does not want to be made clear what the Constitution guarantees him will pay those who have pleaded and renounced this constitutional right. Any who do not plead guilty would be robbed in favour of those who have pleaded guilty to forcible financing of religious communities, even though he himself has none of them. And in this sense, it is not negligible that, at the same time that we have in the country 100 thousand poor, 31% of poor pensioners, for example, in the Social Protection Act, we demand the identification of the property of everyone who is supposed to receive social support. Here we finance, for example, the employees of a very wealthy country, which is supposed to be separate from our own, which I don't think is good. I myself have prepared a similar formulation and fully secure the salaries of priests of any religious community when the last spruce falls into 10,000 hectares of church forests and no sooner. From this point of view, I think it would be right for all those in need of such support to discuss how they would finance it. My God is neither of you, nor those outside, nor any religious community will cost anything, nor will it. Likewise, I would like to see everyone else put themselves in this position, that it costs nothing to me and someone else who thinks the same way, if they don't care and they don't want anything. Here I think that by this law it is in some sense an enormous violence, which is hidden under democracy and under the freedom of religious communities, against which I have nothing. It is right that religious communities are free, it is right that faith is an intimate human right, in accordance with the Constitution, but from here on out, everything else is very questionable and this law has, without going into detail, a series of holes that cannot be covered with a peaceful conscience to those who think otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u271	Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u272	I am joining my colleague Znidarsic when he claims that this law is unconstitutional. It is unconstitutional because it separates religious communities, it does not equate them with one another, but it categorizes them into some special categories by talking about churches and religious communities. Where does this distinction come from? We don't even know. The Constitution speaks - Article 7 is only clear about religious communities, and churches appear here all of a sudden. What churches are these? Whether it is a Muslim religion or a Muslim church, whether it is a Buddhist church or it means that it is only an evangelical, Protestant, and Orthodox church, and all the rest are religious communities. The other thing that is unconstitutional is that Article 5 speaks about how religious communities qualify as institutions of general interest. It makes it very clear that they are enriching their national identity by their activity. What religious communities can enrich their national identity through their activities? I think the answer is very clear. At least, Islam certainly does not enrich our country's national identity in our heads. This means that this Article 5 is unconstitutional. I guarantee you that because this Article 5 is also the basis for funding. From the State budget, the State may finance religious communities which have a general interest, in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 29, which means that financing is also based on the State’s different values or treatment of religious communities. Second. This law essentially introduces a reduction in the scope and content of religious freedoms and introduces a constitutionally unacceptable distinction between religious communities. I would also like to point out that the law interferes with the state budget. It is amazing that through this law it is stipulated that health insurance funds will also be used to finance the salaries of priests in hospitals and other health institutions. That's what it says, please, in Article 25. But go and read it, and it looks like you haven't read your own marriage in full. It is said that the budget for the maintenance, management of criminal institutions will finance the salaries of priests in these institutions, in order to finance the salaries of priests who will operate in the homes of pensioners and other social institutions. This means that we are interfering with this law in the state budget. Why, then, if it is not written in this law to finance the health insurance of the salaries of priests, why is it written that Article 25 will not apply until 1 January 2007, and all the other articles three months after the law is enforced? And I would like to say that when Dr. Chapar introduced or interpreted the law, he claimed that in the constitution they wrote some things that did not really write. It says that the Constitution speaks of the age in which a child is mature enough to decide his or her own religious definition, does not speak of it, speaks of it in reverse, so that parents can decide at what age the children are mature enough to accept religious education and education, so that there is little difference in how we read the rules. I would also like to point out that the restriction, i.e. the registration of religious communities to 100 members or 1,000 believers for the financing of priests, is quite unusual. Here is the basic reason why the law actually had to be amended and that we, too, in previous mandates, were required to draw up a law on religious freedom mainly because the current service discriminated against the religious community in registration because it abused the old regulation. And one more thing, you can see here how we treat [[..]] [[Turn it off.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is clear from the debate here today that there is still a general belief that there is still a law on the legal situation of the religious community, which is old and which dates back to 1976 and has been adopted in substantially different circumstances, including in another country in another political system, and in a substantially different attitude of the State towards the church, that this law is no longer appropriate, is no longer up to date, does not follow the conditions that are in force today. The fact is also that the Slovenian Constitution itself somehow leads to the problem of religious communities and the church or religious freedom being regulated in a special law. In my personal opinion, the law is also needed, not only because we have an old-fashioned law and because we have certain provisions in the constitution that call for them to be further specified, that the law is also needed because of a fundamental or, if you want, the intimate rights of each individual to also be religiously defined to believe that he is a member of a church or a religious community. At least I understand the proposal of this law that the law is trying to regulate this area, to improve this area of religious communities and the church, to regulate, to legalize, to increase religious freedom, and therefore I am surprised to hear here today a lot of concerns or criticisms that give me some strange feelings that some may not wish or wish that the situation in this area might improve. In particular, what is quite inconclusive in existing legislation is the lack of arrangements for the establishment of religious communities. I think it is right that at least some basic conditions, certain rules are laid down, who can set up, in what way, under what conditions, and this law governs, this law brings it. Another weakness is the procedure for the registration of religious communities. This has not been arranged until now either. And if we live in a democratically open society, we expect that there will be new and new religious communities and it is right that the registration process should also be regulated. The fact that the law puts in a more favourable, even monopolistic position of one church, specifically the Roman Catholic Church, I simply cannot agree with this claim. I think that the law, at least the spirit of the law as I perceive it, is that for all religious communities and churches in Slovenia, the same conditions are laid down, even though it may be funny for some in this Chamber, but I do have, as everyone in Slovenia has the right to some of their religious beliefs, I also have the right to believe that I am aware of this law. And what we are now explaining here, I am trying to explain as I perceive this law, and as I wish this law, even in the final stage, when it comes to the third reading, after all the suggestions and I am sure, with the appropriate additions, that it will also be a good law. Of course, those who speak of the monopoly of the Roman Catholic Church somehow forget the historical facts that have brought this church into a position such as today. It may seem to have a somewhat more stable position than some other religious communities and churches, but we must not forget that the historical facts are such that most of the Slovenians who belong to this church cannot simply deny them. However, it is the law that allows other religious communities to develop. And that is the purpose of the law, which in its very title speaks the law on religious freedom. I am also disturbed by the fact that in the debate I had heard that only one church had five Catholic holidays, while others did not have that option, had nothing practical. So someone sees the problem that one church has holidays and the other doesn't. But when we come to the question of mosques, it's once again a problem, "and now we're going to build a mosque." This is some duality that I think for those who see doubts about this marriage, it is out of place and a bit of a rush that those who see everything wrong in this marriage do not have purely honest thoughts. There's something else I'd like to say about the property that this or that church has acquired. My colleague Jerovšek has already said that most of this property was acquired by people voluntarily choosing to donate it to the church, for such or other reasons, knowingly transferred their assets to someone else. And what was happening in the process of denationalisation is nothing like taking something from someone, taking something unjustly, but in fact it is only about returning what was wrong to the church. And here I don't see any special reasons. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Look, any property must have a master. If I compare church buildings and castles in Slovenia we can be ashamed of the Slovenians, what we have done with these beautiful historical, cultural and other monuments, with castles, because society has neglected them for some time because there was no master. Thank God we had a church that has preserved and maintained a number of these precious, sacral objects today. And from this point of view, this is not only about the fact that these are objects of ecclesiastical importance, but also about objects that are actually important for the whole country. And if it is the will of the State to help, in one way or another, to keep these facilities with a good master in the future, I see no particular reason here to have any doubts about this terrible funding of a country that supports certain religious communities. That is why, as I have already announced at the outset, I will also support this bill. I hope that he will experience another kind of discussion and procedure. [[..]] [[Turn it off.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u275	Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If the same criteria were to prevail in this national assembly for all legislative proposals, then the leadership of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati, should reject this law. This is because, in explaining the financial consequences of the law, it is unclear what the other consequences of this law will be, and I am thinking mainly of the 25th section of the law, which speaks of ensuring the employment of the required number of priests in accordance with the rules of the Minister responsible for health, in hospitals and in accordance with the rules of the Minister responsible for social protection in social institutions and hospitals, of course. Let me, of course, remind the honourable assembly that Mr Tsukjat rejected the law, because it is said that the Members could not explain how many additional pensions we will provide to those who have become sick after asbestos. In the case of, obviously, what the Minister for Health has defined as additional employment of the required number of priests under the health insurance burden is at the burden of the state budget and there is no need to say anything about the proposal for a law. Why did I take this case? I took this case because the key point I have in this law is whether the State should finance religious activities in the system of separation between the State and the Church, or whether it is, as they said in their opinion, that we will not, of course, say that this is the opinion of the Liberal Democrats, in fact, what is in the state world. In its opinion, the financing of religious communities may be as appropriate as for other non-governmental organisations, which also give rise to their overall utility. This, however, implies the gravity, contributions from members and calls for proposals which give rise to a specific reason for funding. The Council of State therefore proposes that the financing of religious communities could be taken over by members and contributions would be regarded as tax relief. The government's opinion on this proposal of the State Council is, of course, negative, and the government, in its opinion, says that the state contribution of a dedicated person, a member of another country's staff in the case of the RDC, is equivalent to that of cultural workers. The mistake, of course, is that the country is not separate from culture and cultural workers are independent, while, I suppose, it does not apply to priests, they are not independent, they are in some hierarchy and would be obliged to provide for their religious communities or members. There is still a whole bunch of dilemmas, according to the provisions of the law, who will be the one who will receive or be guaranteed payment if you want pension, disability and other insurance, whether they are only dedicated persons or also drivers, chefs and so on, religious dignitaries. Of course, I think that, in keeping with the principle of separation between the State and the Church, it is necessary to prevent the financing of religious activities, as proposed in the bill, by colleague Gulič, who, of course, imposed the prohibition of co-financing of insurance with an appropriate 10-year transitional period in which to co-finance insurance for those who now had it, settled with a different legitimate way of State funding: whether it is in the direction of the State Council or in which direction, I think it is appropriate to discuss it. In particular, it would be appropriate to consider whether in this country we have decided to return some €220 million of property to one religious community we do not understand the fact that we do not take into account the property situation in the financing of the current operation of individual religious communities. For each parent or for each family, when the municipalities determine the amount of subsidisation of their children’s protection, the property status for each family shall be taken into account. However, for the religious community, for the so-called non-profit organisation, an organisation that carries out forms of general benefit would not, of course, be considered as criteria. Therefore, it seems to me that this law is a step backwards, in fact a law which, unlike other comparable countries in the EU, does not, in particular, respect the fundamental constitutional provisions of the separation of the State from the church. I regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling coalition are unable to listen to the proposals of the State Council if the proposals of some other parliamentary parties are not acceptable and simply do not consider how to regulate the financing of religious communities in accordance with the Constitution. If they are of general benefit, then they should make money on public calls for activities carried out and financed by contributions from members. To do this, of course, it would be necessary to take the basic step that each d.o.o. must take. At AIPES, each religious community should "acquired" in narrations, its transaction account and its tax number, so that this part of the activity in Slovenia is also duly misled. One last thought. This is not something we do not want to regulate in Slovenia. In Slovenia, in the past 15 years, we have arranged many things in the field of taxation. Finally, some 15,000 people from northeast Slovenia working on the other side of the border in Austria will have to pay the difference where they are registered as residents in accordance with the principle of world income. And I suppose that religious communities are residents in Slovenia, and I see no reason not to enter the system. In a system where they are mostly financed by members of these religious communities, we then have a series of studies both on taxation of the income of religious communities and on church taxes, and this should be the true content of this law. The law doesn't talk about it. The law merely extends the rights and we will obviously, as one of our colleagues said earlier, have religious spiritual care in institutions for the passing of sentences to be carried out by dedicated religious communities of the RHC, but not, as mentioned earlier, sects. This is therefore not a law on religious communities, this is a law on how to increase the funding of the most powerful religious community in Slovenia. I therefore consider that this law is contrary to the constitutional principle of the separation of the Church from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u277	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. About the address first. According to the material regulated by this proposal and the way it is regulated, it is not just a law on religious freedom. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u279	Allow the lady to finish. Then you'll get your word on the procedural question. Please, here you go, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's not just about the law of religious freedom. More than religious freedom, the law speaks of a church and priests. According to the explanations and according to what the applicant refers to, it is primarily the Roman Catholic Church. Interestingly, the Constitution in Article 7 speaks only and only of religious communities, and the present proposal speaks consistently of churches, churches and or other religious communities. This is very eloquent, for we know that many religious communities, for example, do not have their own church. In fact, the proposal is directed to ensure the "de facto" privileged position of one particular church in Slovenia. This stems from different criteria such as the conditions for the registration of religious communities. Only those religious communities that have 100 members and have operated in the territory of Slovenia for at least the last ten years may be registered. However, the rights of registered churches or religious communities that they have toward the State must be taken into account by the number of members of these churches, which clearly shows that this is actually the privilege of one church; perhaps some fragments fall for the Evangelical and Orthodox Church, while other religious communities are only equal. The law even requires that this number should also be adapted to items or spatial acts in the new urban areas in order to align the needs and interests of the church after the construction of religious buildings. I am not sure that such a provision is part of this law. However, it is certainly a privilege of one type of civil legal person to other types of civil legal persons. State financial assistance from the State budget for the payment of contributions to priests, social security insurers, has the right to acquire churches in relation to the number of religious officials and the number of members of this church. And under this law, at least a thousand members of this church must belong to such a religious servant. I hope this number, the number of thousands, tells you everything. Then there are special reliefs for those priests or monks who have the promise of poverty, celibacy, and obedience. We know which church this applies in particular. Articles relating to the duty of the State to provide and pay religious spiritual care from the State budget are also very interesting in certain exceptional circumstances or environments. Among these articles is article 23, which states that police officers and police officers who wish to do so are provided with religious spiritual care in circumstances where the exercise of religious freedom is hampered. The Minister of the Interior shall, however, arrange for the organisation and manner of the exercise of this right. You may recall that a group of Members against a similar article, namely Article 73a of the Police Act, proposed to the Constitutional Court an assessment of compliance with the Constitution. However, the transitional provision of the Act in force today provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of this Act, paragraph 73a of the Police Act shall cease to apply. That's an interesting trick. And then there is Article 29, which says that the state can materially support registered churches and other religious communities because of their general importance, irrespective of any criteria. Such a provision, however, is based on a surprise to the argument of the Constitutional Court concerning the denationalisation of the role of the church as a useful institution. As far as I know, the author of this argument was respected by Dr. Sturm. Today he should probably be here today as a representative of the proposer - by the way, I am not sure that, under the current rules of procedure, he can represent the proposer here at a meeting of the National Assembly, the director of an office. I wonder if other religious communities in Slovenia will receive this recognition, so that they play the role of a useful community, we will bet. Then there is paragraph 30, which speaks of the tasks of the competent authority. Given the powers and responsibilities of this body, however, there is no overstated claim that we are essentially acquiring a new Ministry of Church and Religious Community, or better said and other religious communities, and this Ministry will not interfere with internal autonomy and the free functioning of the church, and that is the only right thing to do, given the tasks of the ministry, in particular the service financed from the State budget for the needs of the church to a large extent by the state service for one church in Slovenia. The constitutional determination of the separation of religious communities and the state here makes no sense to lose words, but other colleagues have already said much about it and the fact is that this bill of law does not respect this provision of the Constitution in any way; nor does it make sense to speak about the laity of our country. With this law, if it is adopted as proposed, through the side door "de facto" we will embody the State Church, God help. However, the equality of religious communities, which is commanded by the Constitution, says that religious communities are equal, and then, with specific criteria such as numbering, traditionality, not least registration, achieves that one is a little more or much more equal. I would suggest that at least the title of the law be adapted to the content, so the law would be better called the Discrimination of Religious Communities Act. This may also tell you that such a law as proposed is completely unacceptable for our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs Beblarev, I would like to tell you that, under Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government of the State Assembly may represent the Minister or Chairman of the Government Service appointed by the Government. We also got a list before the meeting, under point 32. Proposal for a Law on Religious Freedom, first consideration, Dr. Drago Čepar, Director of the Office for Religious Communities. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Mr Anton Kokalj, there was an unloving error when Mr President crossed your name out before me at the end of the list and you were written at the place where Mr Drago Koren should have called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u282	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate today, I feel the same way I did many years ago when I was in the fourth and, I think, in the seventh grade, I had to get up at the invitation of a teacher in my class and report because I was just going to a religious school, and I also had to explain to the class why I was going to a religious school. And today, because I happen to be a member of the largest religious community, I feel very much alike. Constant [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mrs. Breda, will you proceed? This is, I will say, the style of this political conscience in which we have been raised for decades, and according to which obviously some colleagues and colleagues expect us to continue to function. I must say, some of the debaters today have actually gravely insulted the members of this religious community, and I am deeply hurt and offended myself. It was said publicly that the Roman Catholic Church, whenever it had an impact on the public, carried on it harshly and so on. I do not have this experience and I do not think that this is a grave intervention and it is not in accordance with the Constitution that the behaviour of fellow Members and Members is so unconstitutional. I think it's one of the articles we talked about yesterday when we discussed immunity. It would be very good for colleagues and colleagues to stick first to what is proposed one day earlier to sanction what constitutes an insult. And I would very much like to ask that after this debate, which went beyond the context of the law, completely out of context, such methods would not be used. I myself believe that the law does not regulate anything other than one poor minimum legal status of what, in fact, the previous authorities have already begun to tolerate, as has already been said, certain positive matters such as the co-financing of certain contributions have already begun before the independence. That's what was said before. I myself did not check if this was true, but of course by the force of the situation, because most citizens and citizens are members of one religious community. And if this brings out the fact that this religious community has some privileges, I think it's incorrect. For if most citizens and citizens are members of one religious community, this religious community has a completely different status by nature, according to the way it operates, a completely different status, even according to historical facts, a completely different status. Education, education and science in Slovenia began through this religious community and those very related to it. That's why I don't think it's good to have such an ideological debate here today. It is possible for the Commission to comment on the findings on assets and financing and that no financial implications are known. I think it has been repeatedly presented to the public that it is an amount that is supposed to be around 300 million a year, and today it has also been given one piece of information as to how much this largest religious community is supposed to acquire or get back, that is, about 30 billion, if I remember correctly, which means that all of this property is not marketable, most of this property cannot be marketed, that is the first thing, and most of this property means at least 50% of the stake of this value, if we want that property to mean roughly what it was when it was taken away. This means 15 billion is already on the negative side of this religious community, but if only in the last 15 years we have been very gravely counting the contribution made by this religious community to its cultural monuments, which are not a market product, but need to be maintained, and it is through volunteering and donations - I can say from my practice that I am sure, roughly, if we take on average 1,000 objects a million a year, we reach 15 years to another 15 billion. And these fabulous 30 billion are nowhere else, they're gone. And if the church, as a good master, turns only part of these funds economically, it is a minimum, which must be done as a good master. But I think it's strong in the minus with that property that she got back, and with all the assets that she's credited with. For we love to go to a hill for the end of the week, they are usually typical of Slovenia, we also love to show foreigners, even those who are probably not members of the Roman Catholic Church, like to show the characteristics of our province, that is the hill and church for which we are very happy if it is maintained. However, we know that if it is maintained, it is very often with voluntary contributions and voluntary work, and I must say in recent times, even with the support of local communities in the last ten years. And when it comes to the local community, by the way, I'd say this aspect is completely ignored. That is why I think that this observation about the property and non-necessity of these assets, which, if we take this comparison now, about a billion a year - and I know that I have not said enough - to restore these cultural monuments, which are public, accessible to everyone, whether or not a member of this religious community, I think it is completely unhygienic that we are here to discuss at this level. That 300 million against that billion, I think he's saying it all. That is why I think that this debate does not have any basis from this point of view. If I continue to say that religious communities are now in line with this law, if adopted, in an unequal situation - it is interesting that most religious communities have participated in the drafting of this law. Even a condition of 10 years, but the religious community is something specific, and I also think the boundary between statehood and religion is not as uniform as we would like to show it, so the systems are not completely comparable. We have to admit they didn't. Not in Europe either. The constitutions are written differently, the legal bases are different, but all countries rely on the provision of basic human rights, that is the expression and life of this part of the dimension of man, such as the religious part. That is why I believe that the law, as it is, is still too modest and does not, at a symbolic level, correct what the former authorities have done in 60 years not only to the representatives of those who are most visible, but to those who we have practiced and who are still practicing this activity. Sometimes I don't know - when it was discussed earlier, if I sing on the crust on Sunday, whether it's a cultural activity or a religious activity - I don't know where I'm from, where I'm from, and where I'm from, and where I'm a citizen paying taxes. And it seems to me, among other things, that as a taxpayer I do not have the right to send my children to believe in those spaces that are empty this afternoon, warmed up on my account, maintained on my account, and should do so in inappropriate premises, teaching a believer. This is my constitutional right, in the final stage, like a father's child. And I would like this approach to be a little bit more positive to look at the practical problems that we are trying to solve, but not just this ideological tone that has been very skillfully introduced into our conscience for decades. As I said, you all know, or at least some of you know, that such a singing Freud did not come with his psychoanalysis as far as his disciples, including Erch Fromm, who defined political conscience and humanistic conscience. And the characteristic of the previous period was that we were raised very consistently in this political conscience, and we were happy if anything had left us more than what the authorities had said. It's not normal. And this is today's assumption in the debate of many colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to express another regret here. In fact, I will just say, in coalition coordination with DeSUS, we have somehow reached the common denominator, and we have also waived some of the articles that I have already mentioned, which had this content, but today DeSUS opposes the law. I think it's also in some way incorrect to those we wanted - and we've also explained - to sort out some purely human things. And I'd still like to ask my colleague to consider it here. I think that the law does not actually introduce any unconstitutional matters, but in fact, at the minimum level governs what the former authorities have begun to tolerate slowly, and I also admit that. But like I said, she was more forced than she wanted. Of course, I will support the marriage myself, even though I would like to have a lot written otherwise. If it turns out that the very application of the law would constitute discrimination in practice against anyone, I am sure that our national assembly and the country are also looking in this direction in order to make this right. In fact, I don't care that there are too many spiritual caregivers in a hospital, and I can have ten representatives of religious communities because of me, if those people who are sick to death or who are in the worst of distress at that time get some encouragement, I think it's worth it. On the other hand, patients would be a little less bored if there were a little more different representatives of religious communities, even if they were a little persuaded by everyone for their religious community; I think this would be even an expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u283	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u284	I would ask, Mr President, if, however, we could determine whether, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 235, a suitable government representative is representing the government at today's meeting of the National Assembly. I will conclude, i.e. the Rules of Procedure states that at a meeting of the National Assembly, the Government may represent a minister or a chairman of a government service appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I suppose that everyone knows that the government has only three government services, namely legislation, European affairs, local self-government and regional development, and the law also stipulates that the General Secretariat acts as a government service. It would be good for you to check it out, of course. Given what we're talking about, it would be good to have another minister here. I answer to one of the previous debaters, of course, it would be good if there were 10 representatives of religious communities who are making a commitment, but I would particularly like to out of state money [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u285	Mr. Squeakl, please, if you don't extend your procedural procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u286	My procedural proposal is just to determine whether the representative of the Office for Religious Communities is an appropriate chairman of the government service, given what the law and rules of procedure of the State Assembly say.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u287	I hope that at the end of this point we will resolve whether I say so or not. Please proceed, Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Dear President! I'm actually going to continue here where my colleague Kokalj stopped. Indeed, I was also concerned by the fact that we are living, I do not know in the third millennium, that we are members of the elite group of countries of the European Union and that today - by my colleague Kontić I have heard him, now he is not here - who is talking about visiting a priest in the hospital and someone is disturbed. Why, I wonder? If you're a citizen, as a believer, I want to visit a priest, it bothers someone; and if I understood him correctly when he said, "I've been going to the hospital a lot lately and I've been watching it." Who told him to watch this? Why does he care? I wonder what he's got out of it. Is it not then some form of impatience that someone can tell me and think of it as something that bothers someone else? And Mrs. Potter, if you please, you spoke of the impatience of the Roman Catholic Church. I don't know what the argument is, obviously it's a lot of ignorance, and I would say that it's probably for something that I can't name differently than I am - ideological tanning. I don't know another better term for it. Because not only RDCs, other churches also care for numerous objects, for a number of cultural heritage. And look, the country contributed 291 million to this in 2004. I believe that the congregations, the local communities, are far more than that, but the lions ’ share in this is actually contributed by self - sacrificing believers, with gifts that they offer voluntarily. Some of you are, and my colleague Žnidaršič very surprised me as a member of the ruling coalition, he said, "I had none of this, I had none of it, so I am not ready to give anything." And I believe that each of us has visited a church for once in our lives as a cultural monument. And if not the other one, he stopped there because of those beauties in this cultural monument, and if not the other, someone could clean up after him. Who does this, and who cleans up all our churches after all these visits today? Who cleans them? Volunteers, people who don't care what condition these churches are in. And when you mention this large denationalizing property that the Roman Catholic Church and some others, or less, have acquired back. This property is in the condition, as it was returned, today presents a great burden for us believers. A great burden because we have to - Mr. Squeakl, you will get the word, because you still have little time - because we have to maintain it with our contributions at least in such a form that it does not continue to fail. In the area where I come from, two castles were returned. The castles were returned after 50 years of incontinence. In one that the church has received returned, however, I do not know how many socially endangered families for which virtually everyone knows how much they pay for living inside. And today it is necessary to rebuild both the foundations and the roof, after 50 years of exploitation in such a way that nothing was invested. And allow this matter to come to you, to all those who speak of this great wealth and who say that in the church forest must fall the last spruce, feel me - how should we cut the last spruce? Are you kidding? However, forests are some kind of natural wealth that we need and which, in fact, according to the plans implemented by the forest plant, cannot be cut down just like that. And what they do, because they actually work in these woods the same people they used to do, just to pay a little more for these cuts than they pay in state forests, where they cut practically or almost free. With all that he does, if we ignore this pastor, to which some of you give nothing, if we consider all of this, then this payment for the social contribution that we are paying already today - and this is not the invention of this law, this is being paid now and it is necessary to repeat this repeatedly for the public, so that it will not wake up in the public any opinion that it is something new to introduce this authority - is, in fact, very little to what these people are doing. In 2004, for social security -- just over 300 million or 316 million. However, I very much agree with this initiative to start thinking about giving the opportunity to make a certain percentage of the income, a certain part of the income - this idea is not new, we as New Slovenia as the opposition party have already advocated that we give people this opportunity and that they themselves start to decide which civil society institution they want to finance through such a system. This would be very good, and I think that this would mean a great deal in this area; for, of course, certain civil society institutions would probably get more through such a system, and some people would think that they are not necessary, and they should probably cease to exist. Two more sentences on what some say should be made in this area, something similar to, I don't know, the offer of different kinds of bread in Mercator, so that we can establish religious communities just like that, quickly and later. I read somewhere that they also came to Napoleon and told him to establish a new religious community, and Napoleon said to them, "Yes, you can establish it if the founder is willing to go to the cross." Thus, religious communities are not only created in such a way, and this decision in this law does not, in fact, exacerbate anything in this area, because it allows those religious communities to operate, but because of the lack of membership, they cannot register under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u289	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Excuse me, I'm sorry. Mrs. Majda Potter has the replica. Then I give my word to Mr. Squill for the replica. Please. I give Mr. Squill my word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to respond briefly to the gentleman who spoke before me, I will not mention him. I didn't talk about anything other than what was the position of the State Council. That's all I was talking about: the position of the state council. I believe that, of course, we have chosen, on the basis of the Constitution, such people representing the widest possible interests in the Republic of Slovenia, and they say so. I deliberately used their opinion so that it would not appear that we have a political conflict here between, we will say, the right and the middle and I do not know who else. I showed up at the replica because of what you said in the end. Do you really think that 2,000 years later, in order for a religious community to gain the status of a religious community, we must cross anyone else? I just don't get it. Just as I do not understand why it is necessary, in accordance with Article 25, to make more sure that we will have, as one of the representatives of New Slovenia said, up to 10 priests who will make a commitment! Of course I wish we had enough doctors there! And the Minister of Health cannot, on the basis of the mandate laid down in the law, worry in particular that there will be sufficient representatives of the religious communities there, rather than taking care mainly of sufficient doctors. And that is why I said that Mr Sugar should reject this law because it does not take into account, it does not provide sufficient clear explanations regarding the poultices on other public cash registers. This is best done by the State Council with the proposal that it be simple for organisations that carry out general benefits and are largely financed by contributions from members. Each non-governmental organization, with a contribution, either in the form of work, cleans up after itself when it does such or other fun.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u291	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The state and religious communities are separate. Religious communities are equal, their operation is free. This is enshrined in Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and do not, by law such as this, undermine this Article 7 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u293	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u294	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the confessional, atheists! 41 religious communities are registered in Slovenia and I must say that I highly doubt, although I would like to believe the word of Mr Čepar that he has spoken to everyone. Probably like me. So, we've taken into account everything that has been said in all the debates in recent years, but it has been obvious to me that I haven't talked and you're bragging in the same way - and we've been together somewhere before! That's funny, of course. This is also one of the matters which does not belong to the consideration of the dealogue and what it is, which does not belong to the consideration of the dealogue. I think you actually wrote this law against all ten orders - if we're talking about you. But let's talk about the law. This bill is also one of those who wants to bypass the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is much more bound to the Vatican Agreement than to our legislation and our constitution, as well as to the European one. All that is written is tricks, passageways, carriageways and, in fact, everything goes in this direction in order for one of the religious communities to be defined as state. I am not talking about believers and respect for faith and for believers, but I am talking about what the representative of the State wants to do in relation to all religious communities. And that's a big difference. From that famous work of Paul about love - we no longer have faith, hope, love, but we have a church, comfort and money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u295	I give my word to a government representative. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Members and Members for their rich debate and for their efforts to contribute to the quality of the regulation of this important area. Thank you for your support, for your compliments, and thank you for your criticism. I will briefly try to answer some of the concerns and questions; some are intertwined; I will not be able to address everyone explicitly at this time. Well, marriage is absolutely necessary because we've been delaying this for too long. Therefore, the Government has submitted a law, which does not contain a school article, no more than a hundred per cent of the contributions, as was the draft approved by the previous government. He shares the majority support of religious communities, both by the number of religious communities and by the number of people they represent. This law improves the situation for all, no one gets worse, nobody discriminates, all the provisions apply to all. It is clear, however, that, as with every law, the existence of conditions and criteria does not necessarily mean that everyone will be able to satisfy them. The religious communities that have supported the law belong to 95% of those who have been identified in the last census as believers or members of religious communities. But I never said, Mr. Gulic, that I talked to everyone. I've invited everyone, we've invited everyone, we've talked to those who wanted to. The basic solutions of the law have been or have been implemented by all the Slovenian governments so far. The law is based on the constitution, international human rights instruments, a friendly model of divorce and the next concept of freedom of action of religious communities. The freedom of action of religious communities is not only a defence right of religious communities before the intervention of the State, nor is it just a defence right of the State against the intervention of religious communities, but it also commands the State to be active in creating the conditions for its realization. Religious freedom is therefore the right to a positive status, a different concept, for example, as only the rights of a negative status could lead to its actual threat. As well as the Constitution, the existing legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, laws such as the law on denationalisation, on public collection, criminal code, on archival material and archives, on media, on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, on the organisation and financing of education and education, on the protection of cultural heritage, on pension and disability insurance, on income and so on, are not based on the principle of the exclusion of religious communities from public life. On the contrary. On the basis of Articles 7 and 41 of the Constitution, Slovenian legislation knows the system of separation and cooperation between the State and religious communities. This principle of separation between the State and the religious communities referred to in Article 7 has also been substantively filled with the opinion of the Constitutional Court when it considered the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See. Now I will try to briefly answer some of the things that have been set up, in the order in which they go according to law. So one thing was the definition of atheism, "freedom from," unlike "freedom for". The Law on Religious Freedom adheres to the wording of Article 41 of the Constitution and to the formulation of the European Convention on Human Rights. A positive definition of an individual for atheism is possible directly on the basis of Article 41 of the Constitution and Article 39 of the Constitution. Of course, the Law on Religious Freedom also contains a negative aspect of religious freedom, that is, the right to reject the expression of religious belief. Article 2 of the Religious Freedom Act makes it clear that no one can be forced to express his belief, since the Constitution already provides a positive aspect of religious freedom and a negative one. The law does not explicitly mention the definition of an individual as to infidelity, because it is not an element of religious freedom, but of broader freedom of speech. For this is the law of religious freedom, and it does not fully cover freedom of conscience or any other matter. Thus, in the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution, the Constitution ensures that no one is obliged to define his or her religious or other beliefs. The Constitution in Article 41 speaks of freedom of religion and other definitions where atheism also belongs. By applying the legal method of logical interpretation, this means that, to the extent that more is allowed, even less is allowed, which means, insofar as the Constitution prohibits even the duty to define itself as to its religious and other beliefs, which represents more, then less is allowed, meaning to define itself as to its religious or other beliefs, to which atheism also belongs. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution, human rights and freedoms shall be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution. The following is therefore a case of discrimination in employment permitted to religious communities. Therefore, the wording of the third paragraph of Article 3 is drawn up on the basis of Council Directive 2000 through 87/EC of 27 November 2000 on the general framework for equal treatment in employment and work, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Directive. More generally, but according to the content, the same provision also contains our Labour Relations Act, in the third paragraph of Article 6. This Directive, however, states in this text in point 2: "Member States may maintain provisions in national legislation in force at the time of the adoption of the Directive, or provide that legislation adopted in the future will adopt national practices such as those in force at the time of the adoption of this Directive, on the basis of which, in the case of professional work in churches or in other public or private organisations whose ethics are based on faith or belief, different treatment, because of faith or belief, an individual does not constitute discrimination because of the nature of this work or because of the context in which faith or belief is carried out constitutes an essential legitimate and justified professional requirement in relation to the ethics of the organisation. Such a different treatment shall be carried out taking into account the constitutional provisions and principles of the Member State as well as the general principles of Community law and should not justify discrimination on the grounds of anything else." Religious upbringing of children. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its 41st Article, Freedom of Conscience, does not really set the age of 18 or 16, but merely stipulates that the child must be directed towards religious and moral education in accordance with the child's age and maturity. We have decided on the age limit of 15 years because other laws also determine the age of 15, which means the acquisition of some of the business skills. Thus, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in Article 108 provides that a minor who is 15 years of age or older may decide on his or her own legal business in Article 106a provides that a child who has reached the age of 15 years and is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of his or her actions may make a proposal to determine the extent and the extent and manner of making contacts. In Article 112, a minor who is 15 years old and who is employed may have his personal income. In Article 89, in order to give recognition to paternity a person who has judgment and at least 15 years of age. The Law of Justice in Article 409, provides that a child who has reached the age of 15 and is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of his or her actions must be allowed to act independently as a party to the proceedings. The age of 15 is also provided for in Article 19 of the Labour Relations Act, which provides that the employment contract may be concluded by persons who have reached the age of 15. So, according to all this legislation, we thought that the reasonable limit was 15 years. About the terms. The registration of churches and other religious communities is not compulsory for the operation of such bodies, and the Law on Religious Freedom makes it possible. Registration is a prerequisite for obtaining certain rights. The law in Article 13 lays down conditions for registration which, according to the Government, are not deemed to be excessive. Conditions for registration in other countries are comparable to Slovenian or stricter. In view of the increased possibility of adoption, the government followed the law, which was introduced into the National Assembly in 1998 by the then government, under the condition of 100 people. In Austria, for example, it is stipulated that if there are 20 years of religious status under public law, and if the number of believers is 16,000, in Belgium 10,000, in Germany, Bavaria, one promo population, Portugal must submit a certificate confirming that the religious community operates for 30 years, unless it is a religious community that belongs to a church established abroad at least 60 years ago, in the Czech Republic there are 300 members, in Slovakia 20,000, in Croatia 500, in Hungary 100, in Poland 100. Financial implications and consistency of financing with the Constitution, funding of contributions. Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution lays down the principle of the social state, which puts the state in a position to ensure the existence and functioning of various segments of civil society, other institutions and associations. Thus, in Articles 83 and 84 of the Law on the Realisation of the Public Interest in Culture, the State undertakes to finance 100% social contributions and health insurance contributions to all those who are self-employed in a culture or carry out a cultural or other artistic profession under certain conditions. This is the expression of respect, the principles of the social state, because culturers and artists do specific work, which primarily does not pursue economic objectives, but primarily contributes to the cultural and spiritual enrichment of society, while at the same time helping to build a national identity. Article 14 of the Constitution provides for the principle of equality, which prohibits any discrimination on the basis of religious or any other belief. In order to respect this principle, it is appropriate that the State also finance social contributions and contributions to the health insurance of priests and other dedicated persons of religious communities. In fact, they perform an important function in satisfying the human need for spirituality and professing faith where the state has an interest. This interest is reflected in the design of the system of values that the modern state needs for a society capable of resolving conflicts on its own in a democratic regime. In addition, it should be stressed that priests and other dedicated persons of religious communities are carrying out, in addition to the most important spiritual provisions, a number of other activities that are important in modern society. These include cardio, educational, educational, humanitarian, cultural and other similar activities. However, it should be pointed out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has never prohibited the financing of religious communities. Moreover, in its opinion on the compatibility of certain provisions of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See with the Constitution, it was stated that the principle of the separation of the State and the religious communities did not mean that any support and assistance was excluded, provided, of course, the equality of all religious communities was ensured. Similarly, the Constitutional Court has explained the content of this principle in its decision to assess the constitutionality of the census law, households and housing. In the same decision, the Constitutional Court further stated that one of the essential elements of the principle of separation of State and religious communities in countries characterised by its consistent implementation is that the State does not financially or otherwise support religious communities. It is clear from this that, according to what Slovenia has previously said, it is not the most restrictive form of the country's separation from religious communities, since, as we say, state support and assistance to religious communities is not excluded. Here, too, it must be said that these contributions - I do not know if we have all properly understood - do not go to churches or individuals, it is only a good half of social security contributions from a very low base that gives very low pensions. The contributions actually go from one state to another government pocket, it is said that this money does not come to individuals or to religious communities. However, as regards the assessment of height, it can be useful to compare with other members of the European Union. Therefore, funding is in line with the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities referred to in Article 7 and Slovenia, not one of the countries with strict separation between the State and the religious communities, nor among the countries with the State Church, but with us a system of separation and cooperation between the State and the religious communities. The principle of separation between the State and the religious communities has also been substantively supplemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Court on the law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See. Slovenia advocates a system of cooperation with religious communities in all areas where it is in the interests and interests of its citizens and the Constitutional Court, as has been said, it has never been said that partial payment of social security contributions is contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution. And in other European countries, which also have a constitutional principle of State separation from religious communities, the State is funding religious communities. I'm going to try a little bit of data on what it's like in other countries. Thus, the arrangement in Hungary is interesting because Hungary has a certain principle of separation between the Church and the State in its 60th Article of the Constitution. In the final version of 1 January 2002, the Hungarian law defines churches, confessions and religious communities as organizations of exceptional importance with their ability to formulate and mediate values. It particularly recognises and stresses, in addition to their efforts in the field of religious life, their important role in public life by developing cultural, educational, educational, artistic and other activities in the field of social state with which they enrich national identity. What do they finance in this definition of separation of church from state? In the event of denationalisation, one possibility of regulating denationalisation was the transfer of the value of assets to a special fund that pays a fixed dividend annually to the religious community for an indefinite period of time if the religious community decided not to require the property in nature. And from this comes one income, which we appoint as the annual annuity from the fund established in accordance with this provision of the law. Then we know that the model where they get, where individuals choose to devote part of the income of natural persons to a religious community, and the state adds to a certain amount what is lacking to a certain amount, unless, to a large extent, citizens decide to make this contribution to the church. I'd like to say the numbers. So part of the income of natural persons, so as not to tell incomprehensible or difficult numbers, we converted it into the size of Slovenia. I will not tell the real amounts in either forints or converted into tolars, but calculated to the Slovenian population, amounts divided by the population of Hungary and multiplied by the population of Slovenia. From the income of natural persons about half a billion; the state's contribution to income of another billion 600; preservation, restoration of cultural heritage - 386 million. This is comparable to the Slovenian budget. He pays for teachers of religious teaching. It must be said that, according to the separation of the church from the state in Hungary, there is no verukkah in school, but the state pays the creditors who teach the church in the parishes. And that's why they give about 700 million, converted to Slovenia, per year. Other state subsidies - 20 million, then annuity from the fund I mentioned, bring an annual billion 400 and interesting, as mentioned in the debate, very positive, they decided to contribute to the preservation of settlement in the country by financing the salaries of rural parishioners. However, the rural priests were defined to have fewer than 5,000 parishioners. It all sums up if we take further subsidies for education, 7 billion subsidies for social activities, 2 billion almost 14 billion, comparable to the Slovenian budget. In Slovakia, for example, the country gives about 2 billion, covering salaries and contributions to religious communities, salaries and contributions to priests, and gives something to the administration. If we look at Croatia, our neighbour, the 41st Article of the Croatian Constitution says; all religious communities are equal before the law and separate from the country. Under Articles 17 and 18 of the Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities, it allocates funds from the budget to religious communities in 2004, converted to Slovenia, given 3.8 billion tolls in Slovenia and 4.1 billion tolars in 2005. If we're also going to stop a few pages, I think it's useful, because some of you mentioned other financing models, such as the income system and the church tax. The most interesting are the amounts. For example, in 2004, Denmark gave the church 57.4 billion directly from the church and 8.4 billion from the budget, and 6 from elsewhere, so it totals 72 billion. Italy has a system of income for individuals to decide on their incomes to devote to churches. Here in 2004 there was an income of 0.8% 77 billion at the level of Slovenian size. In 2005, 80 billion. In addition, there are salaries paid by religious teachers in public schools, financing of churches and monasteries by municipalities, maintenance of movables and properties, historical artistic values, which is not covered by this. For Finland, the supplement is, for example, a church tax of 66 billion in 2004 and a tax on corporate income of 9 billion, a total of 75 billion. These are some numbers, let me remind you that we are here to talk about the current good 300 million, after a new 400 to 500 million, depending on what year we're looking at this year. The non-definition of the criteria referred to in Article 29(3) has been mentioned, so the Government does not agree with the comment that very detailed criteria have already been drawn up in this law if we look at Articles 28 and 29 and transitional and final provisions, but this paragraph has, of course, indicated that material support can also be regulated in other laws which will, of course, provide more detail. If I look a little bit at these questions and the comments I have written from the individual debates, of course I have not already responded to this joint implementation. What is the correct interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the separation of the church from the state; a single partner who can participate for the benefit of all, of course, a more detailed answer is actually the whole law. It was clear that there was a full separation of contributions, that is not true, that the non-profitability of the religious community has a tax advantage, which is that this article, after the tax exemption, does not exist whether they are comparable to the foreign countries that we refer to. So some are more comparable, others are less comparable. For example, our neighbours, Croatia and Hungary are very comparable in a very similar constitution, comparable in a very similar history, we have been together for several centuries in a similar country, we have had a common fate of transition and all of this, so that there is certainly a great comparability, other countries are perhaps less comparable, but the constitutions mentioned are all, so it can be seen, but it is not wrong to think and see how many other countries, no matter how many other matters, but they are intended for this area. The introduction of the verauké is ready. Thus, the present law does not speak of a vermouth, there is no article on education, there is no law on religious holidays, there is no regulation on bells. In order to be less conflicted, we have limited ourselves, the discrimination of employment I have responded to earlier, favouring one of the religious communities, this observation has no basis in the text of the law. All the provisions shall apply equally. 28 billion tolars were returned to the church, so it is information, and it makes sense to compare it with those annual figures that I cited for other countries. I very, very much welcome this compromise, which would bring together more than divorce. Being free, not just free for it, I tried to answer that. Mr Gulič, my marriage sucks, you said it, but it's not true, I never said it, and the government never wrote it, the law is certainly, in scope and technique, something one would not expect from one person in such a short time, but it is what the government disagrees with, the solutions it offers. The aim of the contributions was political control, perhaps true, but it is only possible if there are no criteria. Therefore, a law that clearly sets out the criteria will be needed to prevent some pressure; if a law is transparent that allows criteria, and for all the same things, and therefore the law is needed, that is why. Of course, this claim does not stand in comparison with other democratic countries with a rich democratic tradition, which are doing so, co-financed by religious communities, and no one makes it clear to them that this is due to political control. With regard to police law, I wrote myself down, but the next debate said that this was not so that it would not be regulated twice if regulated in this law, then the relevant article in the police law would cease to apply, and this is set out in the transitional provisions of this law so that it will not be regulated twice. The law is written for the exercise of religious freedom of individuals, but in view of the observations about the religious composition of the office, I still have something to say. I must say that we do not ask for faith in the invitation to tender, this would be unconstitutional, and against international instruments and international agreements on human rights, non-discrimination and many other things, I probably do not need to quote this. The introduction of this issue would mean a return to very bad times. I cannot comment on the statement that the religious composition of the office is, because I do not know it, except for myself, of course, and I can assure myself that the Christian faith helps me and commands me to work in a constitutional, law and impartial manner. I must also say that this question as to whether the Christian director of the Office of Religious Communities could be mediated by individuals to international institutions, and the international institutions have asked the previous government what it is like to do with it, and the previous government, I think, has replied that by 2003, it would be a condition for the occupation of a job with some faith against our legislation, against our constitution and against international instruments on human rights and non-discrimination. The question is why we didn't introduce the Italian system, why we didn't go into some system -- these are very good, important questions, and I'm very happy with them. But why we didn't even go into the income system, why we didn't propose a church tax, why we didn't propose something else, which is all possible funding systems for religious communities - because we wanted to come up with the most acceptable compromise proposal, which actually doesn't introduce anything new, nothing more in this area in the context of what has already been. It's all in this and that's the basic reason. It's about the country priests. As I said, Hungary has done so under the same constitutional system. It's probably going to happen sometime, for the same reason. Even if someone had that thought, the government probably wouldn't put it in this law right now to make it easier to get through. Church tax, income system. This would in fact mean arranging the financing of the church, which is, of course, desirable, but this law does not have this ambition. He wants to regulate only the most urgent, take at least one normative step after fifteen years of democracy and independence, at least one normative step in this area. By funding and comprehensive funding arrangements - these are questions raised by religious communities and churches at a meeting of the government commission to resolve open issues of religious communities. That's what we're working on, and it's hard to tell which model we're going to end up with. However, this law has no ambition to resolve it. Dear Members and Members! I invite you to support the law to come from an unsustainable state of fifteen-year legal void in this area. Implementation will bring experience and experience of possible additions that future governments, future coalitions, future parliaments can propose and accept. Now it is essential to accept something basic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u297	Yes, Mr. Squeakle, you have a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u298	Mr President, my procedural proposal is linked to what we have seen on the board all the time when Mr Chapar spoke. That is, we saw on the MBL board, the minister without a ticket, and then a countdown. This is perfectly consistent - luckily, computers do not violate the rules of procedure - with what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the government is represented by a minister or a chairman of the government service. Although I do not know that we have a minister in Slovenia without a charter responsible for religious communities, if so, then this should be properly defined in the accompanying text which the government has forwarded to the National Assembly. Why is that important? It is particularly important because it would be right for the Minister to be here, not without a ticket, but in my opinion at least two ministers, and perhaps the Minister of Finance, perhaps the Minister of Justice, for the following reason. Let me explain my procedural proposal. Mr. Chapar is deceiving us here. He was talking about only one side of the Hungarian case, talking about three and a half billion expenses that the Hungarian Church derives from the Hungarian budget. However, he forgot to say what the Minister for Finance of the Republic of Slovenia knows is the source of this additional 1% tax paid by all taxpayers who then decide whether they will devote it to the church or whether they will devote it to other government or non-governmental projects. I propose that I come to the Minister without a license or Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice, and I don't know who wrote this law, and that explains it. Because all we heard today was reading some so - called constitutional explanations and unilateral deception. The Hungarian case with Slovenia has absolutely nothing to do with it. However, if we follow the proposal of the State Council, there is much more to be done by the Minister without a charter for religious communities, as it is written on the board. That is why we feel that this law is inadequate. This law is a half-solution of the matter, which, without a fundamental discussion on whether or not we will demarcate the relationship between the state and the church, is also clearly presented. I would therefore like to suggest, Mr President, that you first find out which minister without a charter represents the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today in the National Assembly, on the basis of which article, and that the representative of the government who will provide comprehensive information on church taxes in Hungary and on expenditure will come to the National Assembly and then compare this with what you want, the ruling coalition, with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, calm down! I think, Mr. Squeakle, that you do not ask me as chairman to resolve some technical issues concerning the screen now. I've been watching and watching the weather. Mr Chapar, once again, is the representative of the government that sent him to this meeting, and they are meeting as a representative. So I would warn you once again because I promised you the answer to his status. I got the answer, and I think my action was right, because the answer says: Under the Law on State Administration, the Office has the status of government service, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't want to start this debate. I would like to proceed with this point, and please, Mr Squeakl, please, if you have any comments as to whether the Director of the Directorate may be present, or can he represent the government to raise this issue at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this debate. You have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u300	President, I have only one procedural proposal if you're quoting me from an article of the state administration law that says that. I've reviewed the law. There's no such thing in the state administration law. All that is in the State Administration Act is that the Minister also represents the bodies in the composition. Now, quote me on the article, and we can talk. And I'm just saying, Mr President, I don't know what the government is and what the government has not provided, but for once we have paragraph 3 of Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of ministers and heads of government services. It is known that only three ministers without a licence, a non-existent Minister for Development, a State Secretary of the Government's European Affairs Service, who is the head of the government service, and a Minister of SLS for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. At one point, or you say we have 40 ministers in Slovenia because we have about 20 of these organs or offices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I've said it again, and I'm going to read again what I got as a notice. Under the Law on State Administration, the Office has the status of a government service, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also told you that in the event that this answer does not please you, please ask your group leader to set this matter to the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this debate or there is a comprehensive list of all the applicants for the debate. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? Please, if you answer and I'll write you down, there are no later reports. Mr. Mag. Grimes. Yes, madame Breda Pecan, I'll give you my word first. You didn't raise your hand, did you, Mr. Bevk? I saw one hand, you didn't raise your hand sideways. Good. Seven Members have applied for the debate in the remainder of the time. We have three minutes and 13 seconds and 12 now. I'm informing you that all the debaters have 25 seconds at your disposal. I'm starting a debate. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u302	I have 30 seconds plus 15. So, Mr. Chapar, I would like to ask you that the second time you have the opportunity to explain yourself again in the National Assembly, you talk about the thing we're talking about, not that you're reading us an explanation of the law we know how to read ourselves, we went to school, even if we didn't go to church. Another time. You have also caused, among other things, that a number of religious communities have demanded a change of law in order to settle these matters. You caused it yourself. Thirdly, this marriage was written by the Maltese knight [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u303	Mrs. Breda Pecanov, we're not running out of time, unfortunately. But I found out you don't have time for point four anymore. Mr. Grimes, please. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, the distinguished representative of the Government! Today, some, which grieves me, step up with their discussions in emotions of about a million and a half Slovenes and Slovenians. This is not a "shika" for this National Assembly and Slovenia and Slovenians today feel attacked, with me worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj, you have the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Capuder. [[You're giving up.]] Mrs. Zginereva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u306	Thank you very much. From the words of the government representative, we have heard a lot of deception today. I have already said this in the introductory explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. I would ask again who is responsible in this country to tell us what the correct interpretation of Article 7 of the Constitution of Slovenia is. I'm sure this government representative isn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u307	Thank you very much. You were very accurate, exactly 24 seconds. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we did not talk about it, we did not want to offend anyone, but we were just trying to explain the proposal of the state council, a proposal that was applied in all normal countries, even in Hungary - first the church tax, and then it is paid from the church tax, whatever the government defines. And we do that, and it's going to be clear how much this million and a half is going to pay for this one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Your time is up. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 20.00 hours, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u310	Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for an economic chamber law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 6. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the substantive equivalent amendment of the two drafters, namely the LDS Group and the SD Group of Members to Article 4. You want to explain your voice? On behalf of the delegation? In your own name, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will say in my name that I will support this amendment, because we will ensure that in Slovenia, however, we will maintain the key advantage of the continental model, taking into account all government Republican, conservative, Anglo-Saxon ideas, with this amendment, we would have representative chambers in Slovenia. Today's debate said that at least representatives of the Slovenian coalition, as has been said, would not support this amendment. The vote on this amendment will therefore substantially change the title of the Economic Chambers Act. If you reject this amendment, then today we are enacting a law on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and at the big door canceling social dialogue, preventing the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy and, above all, preventing the economic chambers from genuinely representing the interests of the economy in Slovenia. This is entirely in line with the concept of the government of Janša, which does not need social dialogue, which, by abolishing the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in particular, reduces the possibility of resolving development issues in Slovenia by consensus. I'll support the amendment. I want you to support him, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u312	Mr. Pache, you have the floor. On behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u313	Your Honors are here! Indeed, the first amendment to Article 4 allows for so-called social dialogue with the government, but allows for social dialogue exclusively for one partner, and this is not good. Therefore, in the National Party we assess that it makes sense to allow the social dialogue of several partners with the government, with the legislator and, last but not least, with all those interested in the problems of the economy. In our view, in no way should we agree to such a theory, as just before me presented by Mr Cvikl, because it actually means continuing compulsory membership and one chamber within our country. If we have decided to amend legislation in this area, and from this point of view I can at least ensure, on behalf of the National Party's Group of Members, that it makes sense for different economic operators to unite in a number of chambers, depending on their economic interest, and let it go. Not to limit the number of chambers to just one, only to allow so-called representativeness and only to enable communication with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us make this possible in more chambers, allowing more room representation status. We leave freedom on the market and leave the freedom of decision to individual economic operators. According to our assessment, time has passed, as advocated by the Liberal Democracy. In the final stage, we witnessed this for ten years and a few years when the old Law on the Chamber of Commerce was in force. The national party will, of course, oppose such an attempt to eradicate legislative changes. We support the basic idea that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has summed up after three suggestions from the Slovenian National Party, since three times this National Assembly has met with the amendment of the Economic Chamber Act, which was tabled by the Slovenian National Party. And in all three he pursued only one goal, namely the freedom of decision-making of economic operators on the market and the multiple representation towards the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, towards the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u314	We're voting. I note that there were 75 votes in favour, 27 votes in favour, 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 39 in favour against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote was taken by 70 Members and Members, 24 to 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour and 53 against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I suggest we do a third reading at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u316	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 78 Members and Members voted for 52, against 26. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will be the third, please, peace. [[...]] Once again, please calm down. It's very difficult if you come from all the benches. I understand that the proposed one has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Friday 26 May 2006 after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. To this Article, qualified applicants may submit a draft law at a meeting of the assembly by the beginning of the third reading. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Media. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, and we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u317	Thank you very much. This is certainly the most important article, which makes a big difference between what the government is proposing and how we feel if the media are co-financed. The government is talking about media content, the amendment is talking about public interest in the media, the government is talking about difficult and balanced support for the media, which represent a political position and opposition, while the amendment is talking about how the RTV radio and programmes can be financed in a special sense, where it is an important distinction. We are spreading the concept from the daily newspaper to the wider monthly, the weekly, the specialized magazines, we are talking about how it is financed, if already, the media we are talking about in setting up the one-stop shop, the postal distribution aid and postal services, we are talking about the development of technical infrastructure to help disseminate software content that is intended for the blind and visually impaired, which the government forgets, and we are also talking about how, by what criteria, these subsidies can be granted, if, as I say, they are already being distributed. We are talking about a commission in which members must be absolutely independent, and we are certainly talking about the democratic and transparent allocation of funds through criteria that meet the needs of the media space, so of course I am asking you to support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u318	I would like to warn you that if this amendment is adopted, amendments under points 2, 3, and 4 will become irrelevant. We're voting. Members present and Members 79 voted 29 to 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. Here you go, ma'am. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u319	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The amendment that we are going to decide on is substantively similar to not saying the same amendment that you just rejected, so it is a second chance to change your previous decision. This is the amendment that we are trying to enforce co-financing and decision-making on co-financing of public interest in the media. We apply the notion of media pluralism as a variety of media offerings that are reflected in the existence of many independent and autonomous media and the diversity of media content available to the public. We believe that the positive experiences of comparable European countries and their different practices should be viewed as appropriate for the Slovenian media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 29 to 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 78 present, 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 79 present, 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u321	Of course, the correction as you have prepared will undoubtedly be accepted, but it is worth noting that all the anomalies you have introduced in this and that these anomalies will surely cause the media to suffer and undoubtedly have huge problems. But I warn you that with this amendment that we have prepared for you, you can withdraw another rather unusual and certainly in world practice a one-off solution. In view of the possibility that the amendment may be published - which you leave in law - this possibility also publishes a comment of this amendment or an answer to it. This can trigger writing in editorial institutions, it can occupy space, it can intervene and dictate and dictate autonomy and interfere in editorial design. We wanted and wanted such precise regulation, where it dictated, what could be the subject of correction, from the comment forward, which we know is a special and specific journalistic type, which represents and interprets thoughts, but does not affect and opens up the space of dialogue in the space where journalists and editors have absolute autonomy. I believe you can use this amendment to remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u322	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, with the first part of the amendment, which says that the same edition or broadcast of the media should not be accompanied by an amendment, the comment of this amendment or the reply thereto should be absolutely agreed. Of course, a general error was made when it was suggested that the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs of the proposed law should be deleted. For this reason, we cannot absolutely confirm the amendment to Article 8, for this is actually the whole right to correction, which must be a mess, that is to say fair, to be nullified. Therefore, we will not support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u324	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 13 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 45 is not adopted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Friday, 26 May 2006, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on religious freedom. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on religious freedom, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. On behalf of the delegation? In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u325	I will not support this law or this decision, because I believe that this would support the conclusion that the law in the first reading is suitable for further consideration, to impose an anti-constitutional and, in particular, discriminatory treatment on all religious communities that have found their place in our country. I would like to make this clear, because I have heard comments that those who oppose such a law are insulted and humiliated by the faithful in this country. It's a fat lie, it's a conversion of facts. The point is that one is when we talk about believers and religious communities, the other is when we talk about their institutions representing legal persons who take on great power through this law, which they already have too much already. In particular, I must say that I think it is the highlight of the fact that the representatives of the government in this way represent or interpret the Constitution as if they were in the role of the Constitutional Court. I hope that when this law, because it will be adopted in one way or another, we will have the opportunity to initiate a constitutional review of this law, that the gentleman who has previously explained to us what is in the Constitution will be, for example, in Article 2, and then a number of articles forward, not to mention the 7th, who is in charge of this law in any way, to see that his understanding of the Constitution is completely reversed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u326	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u327	I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to draw attention to the fact that our refusal to support this law has always been the same, and this must be said because of some of the surprises that have been expressed. This was the view of this issue even before the signing of the coalition treaty, and if anyone had allowed entry into a coalition with such a law, the coalition connection would have been different today, so the same entities would not have been connected in it. This has already been in writing, but we have also spoken in writing, and let me say, it seems important to me that this position is fully and fully supported by the President of the DeSUS party. So far, we have also pointed out that we may be mixing some things or doing wrong comparisons. We are talking about religious freedom at the same time about cultural activities, about educational activities, about the preservation of cultural heritage, but we are not talking about the law that would talk about it, we are talking about the law on religious freedom today. If we want to talk about other activities, the law should be addressed differently. It is also important that if the law, as it is now proposed, were to be supported, this would be more a law on the financing of religious communities and religious activities than a law on religious freedom. That's why we won't support it. However, we do not deny any right to religious communities or churches who believe that they are engaged in their activities and that they also appear in society, that they are included in society, are not excluded from it, but it is slightly different when we speak of this involvement in the country. And society and the country, of course, are not the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u328	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u329	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will vote against this proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration. The point is that there are formal and substantive reasons behind. The law is written in such a way that it represents bypassing the Constitution, that it in some way misuses the laxity of constitutionals, that it discriminates against different religious communities, that it allows only one among religious communities a very strong privileged position, but that the non-admission of this law would not endanger everything that this religious community and other religious communities can receive even now. It's about funding their cultural monuments, it's about funding education, it's about charity activity, it's all happening now or since 1976. If we do not adopt this law, which is truly bad and discriminatory to believing, unbelievers, we do no harm. The law should be prepared for a new, more complete, clear and, of course, respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u330	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll speak for myself. Today, the attitude of the opposition to media and religious law has been repeatedly linked to the word stalinism, so I would like to say something about this law, which we will now vote on. So, the main Slovenian expert on the emergence of Stalinism and Stalinist methods, our fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, has today enriched his opus with new contributions to this topic. Thus, in early May, in support of the speech given by the President of the national assembly at Nanos, he said that critics of the speech used surviving Stalinist methods. Today he spoke of Stalinist methods in the media space and regarding the law on religious freedom. He spoke of a Stalinistic attitude toward expressing religious feelings. So today, Jerovšek has committed a complete misdemeanor of the historical period.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u332	Sir, I'd like you to focus. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u333	Apparently, he still thinks after some virtual Stalinist period, so Stalinism has been alive since 53, in the Soviet Union, and I would ask him, because there is no article written in Wikipedia or free encyclopedia on this subject yet to write a password on Stalinism and to strengthen this encyclopedia so that it will also read about Stalinism and, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-24-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u334	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 34. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
