ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Nice greeting at the first holiday session! I hope that we will survive this autumn in the most effective capacity. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič, Aurelio Juri, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Breda Pecan and Happy Friend. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of all agenda items and representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the Judicial Council and representatives of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, to the 33rd item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 15 September 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda a bill amending the electoral campaign law, reduced procedure [[You have received a motion for withdrawal]] . Would you like a representative of the motions? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the first autumn session! In our written proposal to withdraw the bill amending the electoral campaign law, we listed the following reasons: First time. The law would come on the agenda tomorrow, 26 September 2006, following a proposal for a programme of examination. It takes into account the urgency and the right of the Council of State to issue the suspension veto and the publication in the Official Journal, it may enter into force first on 6 October. This is right in the middle of an electoral campaign for elections in the municipal councils and for mayors who are already in the process. We believe that this is not a good and right decision, and it is not in accordance with the rule of law when laws are not supposed to interfere with some of the events that have already been triggered, but are supposed to continue. That is why we also have the usual "vacatio legis", not the activation or enforcement of the law for the next day. In addition, there are two substantive issues that need to be taken into account. First, the Council of State has warned us that the Constitutional Court, as regards the payment of a fee - this is considered to be one of the important reasons for the adoption of the law - is unnecessary because the payment of a fee is already impossible by a decision of the Constitutional Court in cases which are the content of this law and which concern the payment on private surfaces. Thus, the obligation to pay is no longer valid, whether or not the law will be enforced. And some of us. [[three]] Mayors from the major Slovenian municipalities warn that, as a rule, posters are provided and that it is also appropriate to provide some order in towns and cities and that uncontrolled postering without any authorisation may also have an opportunity to reduce traffic safety. I think these are all the reasons why it would be wise and right to adopt this law not earlier than after the local elections, so we suggest that it withdraw from this meeting to one of the following meetings, perhaps in November. We expect to appreciate the desire to implement the rule of law and we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the bill's proponents? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out here that I personally assume that we do not accept laws for some particular event, and this law is not intended only for this year's local elections that are ahead of us. Article 14 of the Constitution makes it clear that equality before the law has not been possible for the electoral campaign to date. Even though this law is short, it is important, and this equality before the law is now clearly defined. The Council of State has confirmed to this law on a committee which has also considered this proposal of law, and therefore I do not understand these explanations, which my colleague Ptrč has also provided here. In view of the fact that the law is not only adopted for certain particular events, I can also comment here on the fact that in a democratic country we can always have any early elections, we can also have a referendum, so there is no valid reason why we should not consider this law at this meeting. That is why I am asking and insisting, as the first to be signed with the applicants, that this law remains here on the agenda, that we also accept it, that we allow all the electoral campaigns that are ahead of us to be implemented in a correct and equal manner. Moreover, what is also important in this bill is that if, after an election campaign, an individual organiser does not remove posters or all propaganda materials, the manager of these posters can now do so at the expense of that organiser. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you. Representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u6	Respectable present, postering is one of the polls. Postering is the type of electoral work through which candidates report something and through which potential voters and voters understand something or are intended to understand something. A simple court of the Republic of Slovenia has issued instructions that electoral activities during the electoral year do not change mainly because of the integrity of each candidate, but also because of the integrity of each voter or any voter. From this title, the minimum disputed political view, in particular in the form of political ethics, that we will change electoral tasks during the electoral period, according to our assessment not only because of the decision of the Constitutional Court which advised us to do so, but mainly because of the protection of those potential voters and voters and for the protection of candidates and candidates, the electoral executions of the electoral campaign system do not change during the electoral campaign, i.e. during the thirties. Even more, the Constitutional Court has said in its content, not even in an election year and not now reach or demand from the National Assembly, that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has delayed the pre-vaccination period to reach this law or the applicant, as far as we are concerned, in citations, the fact that we are proposing to put all the candidates and, of course, the electorates and voters in this situation, to which even the Constitutional Court has been negatively defined. In the National Party, of course, we will respect the decision and, above all, we will respect political ethics and electoral activities during the electoral period, we will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. We will not support the SD proposal in New Slovenia. We objected to him at the college itself, because in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that such solutions are such that municipalities with decrees charge some kind of billing fee on private buildings, are unconstitutional. It can't be. The municipalities may charge if they have their own facilities, but they cannot prescribe payment fees on buildings other than those of the municipality. And the very debate on this law will make it clear to all those who do not yet know that the municipalities do not have the right to charge them for billing on private premises. This has happened to a number of congregations, and it is right that this changes with the law. As for the electoral year, we are in fact always in the electoral year, once there are local elections, and then the elections to the state assembly, and the elections to the European Parliament, and the election of the President of the State. If we were to view this strictly, we could never really change any marriage. This law for these elections will not yet work and will not be passed until these elections, but it is only right that this will change in this national assembly and that we will therefore vote against the proposal of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. As I gave you the position of the Slovenian People's Party at your college last week, I will now repeat. Nor in the Slovenian People's Party's Group will we support the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. And to my colleague Pect, it's not about changing electoral affairs. This law has two articles. There are two paragraphs in Article 1. One says that municipalities must not charge additional municipal fees, and the second paragraph of this Article says that if someone without the consent of the landowner sets a board, this board may be removed at the expense of the organizers of the election campaign. It does not affect this law in any electoral work, but it equates all citizens, and in any election that they are equally subject, I will say, to legislation and that this does not happen as I am aware, it has happened in some municipalities that either the referees or others have charged a municipal fee for further setting up tables outside those officially designated poster places. We will not support the proposal to withdraw this agenda item in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Pece, there are no replicas at the stage of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! In view of the fact that the law will be passed in the middle of an electoral campaign, we will support the withdrawal proposal. In doing so, let me point out that we did not oppose the content or the content of the law was agreed with us at the time of preparation and we agreed with the solutions offered by the law. But whoever thinks the matter is not election-related, it has to be acknowledged that it is and in this spirit does not really show insistence. But it is not our fault that it came so late, so we do not have to support the withdrawal, no bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you. I think Mrs. Darja Lavtijar has raised her hand. On behalf of the LDS? Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u14	The Honorable President. In view of the fact that today is the first holiday session, and given that you yourself have said in the introduction of this meeting that you want the National Assembly to work as properly as possible, I would also ask for the proper guidance of all. The fact is that colleague Bajc broke the rules that go to explain the views of the parliamentary groups and highlighted the debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u15	Mr. Pache, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u16	Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u17	speaking [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u18	that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply both to Comrade Bajc and to all others in this National Assembly. [[...]] Your practice, which you started to implement a few minutes ago, is sad that after the holiday work, is that colleague Bajc could have exceeded the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and you did not allow me to do so. Let the rules apply to everyone. It's a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u19	Mr. Pece, you've abused the rules of procedure. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On behalf of the LDS Club, I report that the LDS Members will support the proposal to withdraw this law from the agenda. In doing so, we refer to the view that it is not only unhygienic but also contrary to the position of the rule of law to adopt law in the middle of the actual electoral campaign. Well, we'll support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Grill, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u22	On behalf of the Group of Members. Once again, I would warn all the debaters that this law, all those who have read it, will understand it, in no way interferes with any change in the electoral process. Here it only equates those inequalities that individual municipalities have put in place in practice. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support this law or we will not support this proposal proposed by Mr Potrč. I would also like to draw attention to these dates that he outlined in his explanation, in September, I think it is not the end of the electoral campaign and not the electoral silence, but the electoral campaign is just beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Potts, would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u25	Will you, on behalf of the Member of Parliament or as a motion for withdrawal? You have both options. As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I have been convinced by the discussion of colleagues from among the types of law-makers and coalitions that they themselves are not sure of the content they have presented. In the explanation of the law, the main content is based on questions of payment of billing fees on private land. I've informed you that by a decision of the Constitutional Court, charging is illegal. For this reason, there is no need for the law to be enforced at all, especially not immediately. Second. They were talking about election assignments. I agree with you. Elections will be held primarily on election day. This does not come into play with regard to the submission of candidate papers, but is not a matter of electoral action. It is an electoral campaign and actions that are possible or not in the context of an electoral campaign. So far, it has not been possible to sign in private places without written consent. In the case of a matter of public safety or traffic safety, the competent authority’s authorisation was required. This permission of the competent authority, Comrade Grill, has now been removed from the law, the competent authority is no longer authorised. This is an important change which may also have a materially unjustified impact. Third. I submit that your claim that the law must be adopted today has a direct bearing on the local elections, because we all know that no extraordinary elections will be held within one month, and that the referendum will not be adopted within one month because decisions should already be taken and it would normally be sufficient time for us to adopt this law in November. But no, you want this law to be adopted today, so that it can also apply to electoral campaigns directly linked to local elections, from the adoption onward, citing equality or not. Ladies and gentlemen, inequality will be caused by this because many of us were just thinking that we would prevail over reason, that we would prevail over the principle of legal certainty and that we would not change the conditions of this electoral campaign in the course of the electoral campaign. But you want this in any way, so there will be a change in the situation and inequality, because you are certainly already agreed where you are going to do this. I am not substantively surprised by such decisions, because in most decisions on the rule of law and on honesty you give relatively little, but choose some arguments that will be substantively supported. All that you have said in substance today is in favour of our proposal not to adopt the law today, but not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that agenda item. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. Procedural proposal, please. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u28	In view of the fact that we have received some instruction on the application to the debate, and since we will now set the agenda, I am interested in what this is meant to be. In fact, at least one very serious mistake or omission is made here. It is simply that when you talk about the President pushing the button, I support that this work is automated as much as possible and that we are using the tools available. But in here, when you're talking about 10 seconds to apply for a vote in the debate on the amendments. In 10 seconds, whoever's in that room right now, pushes, sorts out, okay. What if after 10 seconds someone is interested in discussing the amendments? This is not the case at all, this is the prostitution that Mr Rupar has carried out on a permanent basis and is abusing the rules of procedure, and do not ever warn him. Even if you are in the Chamber, and when someone discusses the amendment, another Member, you have the need, the desire, the will to apply again. While there were no other discussions, there may have been no need to discuss this. However, when someone discusses it, but it is clear from this paper that the President will press once, gather the Members and Members of Parliament, by the way, it would be right to use this house if we already have men and women sex, including in legislation and everywhere, and we took this stand, so it would be right for Members to apply, not just Members, but by the way. I'm asking what's the status of the application in a specific case.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u29	Mr Anderlič, we will talk about this after the interruption, after the vote on the agenda and after the interruption, which is why you received this material on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u30	But not to say later, you got on the table, we accepted the agenda, then, you have the instruction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u31	That doesn't belong in this phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u32	You can really expect everything here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u33	Mr. Zagorac, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. About an hour ago, I received an overview of the questions sent for the first item of the agenda. I think it's about the agenda, and I believe you won't interrupt me because I have three minutes to come up with a procedural proposal. On this agenda, I was amazed to learn that my name was not on it. It is true, however, that from your service, referring to you, on Friday, 4:38 p.m. and today at 11:15 p.m., you have informed me that, according to your explanation, my question as to my question of the matter of the locals is only a matter of local concern. According to my information, Mr Environment and Space Minister has defined himself as the one responsible for this question, who is willing to answer my question, and you said that this is a local level, despite the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Space was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the host of the Gudron Cave in the municipality of Pesnica, Šentilj and Kungota. And the Ministry of the Environment is the one that will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u35	Mr Zagorac, we have an agenda for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u36	I believe, because I'm talking about the agenda, on the 1st item of the agenda, I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u37	Please be a little more serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u38	I'm very serious because I'm very serious about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u39	Don't make me take the mike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u40	Look, then I'll make a procedural proposal. If, in the matter of the ruling coalition, there are any irregularities that you are afraid to discuss at a meeting of the National Assembly - I would, of course, expect, given that two Members, one from the opposition and the other from the coalition come from these three communities, that my fellow Member from the coalition, with all its parliamentary government authority, would like to have a constructive approach to solve this problem and talk about it - I expect you to explain to me in writing by the beginning of the 1st item of the agenda where the local meaning is. I have already said that the Ministry of the Environment and Space has issued an invitation to move things from this cave abroad, so this is an international project, not just a local one. However, if you would like to say that one of these three municipalities is no longer in the Republic of Slovenia or is not an object of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, please write this in your written explanation why I should not ask the question of a Member State, despite the fact that the Minister of Environment and Space has defined himself as competent and willing to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u41	We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. Before moving to point 1, I would like to ask Mr Petk to explain the proposed procedural proposal so that we can decide on it immediately. Please, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. I have the honour to make my procedural proposal before the entire ministerial assembly. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I request the National Assembly to confirm the replacement of two points at this meeting. I myself am proposing the 16th point, this is a proposal for a law on income, and I propose that due to my urgent detention - I regret that I cannot be in the National Assembly on Thursday, but I am the first to sign a proposal - this point is replaced by a 20th point, and this is a proposal for a law on municipal regulation. Both points are about the same after a minute or this point of mine is even a little longer, meaning it would lead to an equalisation of voting time. And I very much ask the National Assembly to confirm this replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you. You heard the proposal to replace agenda items 16 and 20. A decision will not be taken if one third of the Members oppose it. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 62 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 28. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. So replace the numbers 16 and 20 in the agenda. I'm sorry, it's a mistake! The procedural proposal has not been adopted, unfortunately, Mr Friday, because more than one third of the Members opposed it. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received, within the deadline of business, written statements from 27 Members and Members of Parliament, of which it is clear on the questions sent to Marie Possonec, Boštjan Zagorec and Ivan Jelena that these are questions of local importance. In accordance with Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure, these questions will be referred to ministers who will respond in writing. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Below, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance will answer the questions raised at the 17th and 19th meetings of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to the absence. The Magnificent Messenger. Milan M. Cwickl, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes, as well as if the question is raised by the larger ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Justice, Dr. Lovro Šturm and Minister for Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, from 16.30 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You are receiving a review of questions sent and initiatives not yet answered within the deadline. Mr Zagorac, is the same procedural question that we have already clarified, or is it another? Second procedural question, Mr Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. I don't know when you've been clearing this up on the first procedural proposal, but it's a second procedural proposal. In view of the fact that you have taken the presidency, I will say to this distinguished assembly that authority and you have not allowed the question to be raised without giving the MP of the National Assembly an explanation of why, where and where you see this locality and the local thrust of a particular question, he would require the suspension of the meeting until we have the Members or all Members on the bench, where this locality is visible from my question of departure. As I said at the beginning or during the consideration of the agenda, the Ministry of Environment and Space is the one that prepared the call for the rehabilitation of the gudron cave in the municipality of Pesnica. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall also be competent if any requests are made, irrespective of any address, after compensation for any damage caused to the rehabilitation of this Gudron Cave. When you mentioned this locally, I told you earlier, as far as I know, and it is right for such matters to be clarified in the Institute of Parliament, the material from this cave to be taken abroad. This means that it is not a local problem, but even an international problem. However, if any irregularities occur on the part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to which I will say, I will say that the ignorance of my parliamentary question is insinuating that some irregularities happen, that compensation is not being paid to the government, that I will not be even more direct and say, that it is even taking advantage of this Gudron cave, and please, the institution of the question of mission is the right address to resolve such matters. In this case, if the suspicion that I have raised is justified, it is also your fear and your prohibition that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not answer my question. We are all confident, and we all know that this is a multi-million-dollar recovery. If there is any exploitation of these millions of amounts by the ruling coalition or individuals by the ruling parties, then, honourable Mr President, you have only reinforced my suspicions and not rejected them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u46	Mr Zagorac, we have already heard this in the previous version, you have repeated the procedural matter. Once again to all those who have rejected your questions in accordance with Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure, some of which have been so. This article states that if it is clear from the written application that it is an obvious question from the Member States on matters of local importance, the President of the National Assembly shall send it to the Government or to the Minister to prepare a written reply. Dear Members! Sava runs through all of Slovenia, every cleaning plant in Gorenjska according to yours or according to the logic of Mr Zagorec has a republican significance, any cleaning plant in Gorenjska, so would [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Of course it does, but it is an obvious local matter within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I will always use this right, which the Rules of Procedures give me, even in the National Assembly. [[...]] So please follow the rules of procedure, Mr Zagorac, you will receive a written reply from the Minister and then you will be able to continue this story. The first question will be asked by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] You've had it before. [[...]] Mr. Lakhovnik, you have the floor. Burner, please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister: I am interested in the implementation of wage policy over the last two years. I ask you this because, after you have appointed a number of prominent political personnel to the supervisory councils and administrations of Slovenian companies, members of your party, you have simultaneously increased the remuneration of those on the supervisory boards by almost four times. If I give you specific cases. In Luka Koper, some 8 million meetings were previously held for the entire supervisory council, a new figure of over 30 million tolars, and this supervisory board is headed by a prominent political official of your government, the secretary of state. Another such in the sky is the case of a state insurance company called Triglav, where, for example, the President of the Supervisory Board receives an additional 156 thousand dollars per month from a lump sum of 580 thousand dollars, while each participation in the meeting receives an additional 156 thousand. Therefore, if this same supervisor, a visible political representative, attends a meeting of the Supervisory Board 12 times a year, he gets 9 million tolls from the state insurance company, even though he is not employed there at all. There are a number of other cases, state secretaries who thus receive more than one additional salary. The cases are also significant in some other administrations where you have staffed, at the head of Petrol, where you appointed your political representative as chairman of the administration, for example, to receive 4 million gross per month, plus an opportunity to receive another 10 months' wages as a reward, amounting to about 88 million tolars per year. With the tax reform being carried out by your Minister Bajuk, you gave them additional gifts. For example, as a result of tax reform, this same president will receive an additional 5 million 200 000 a year, one very solid car, one with 100,000 tolars a month's salary, 140 000 gross, and will receive an additional 10,000 200 tolars at the annual level as a result of the reform. On the one hand, for workers, three sacks of potatoes, and for CEOs, who earn 80 million dollars and more, an extra car. I wonder: What kind of wage policy do you have in these companies? Does this seem fair to you, and why are you pursuing it in four steps? Firstly, you appointed the presidents of the boards and members of the supervisory boards according to political criteria, secondly, at the expense of taxpayers you sent them to school because they did not have the necessary knowledge, thirdly, you put them under additional stress with tax reform, giving them very much money at the annual level, and fourthly, you increased their benefits up to 4 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much for that question. Even if what we heard was true, the debate is more similar to 1976 than it was to 2006. As far as wage policy is concerned, this government is of the opinion that the first in the time of the independent Slovenia, which is a wage policy, is particularly in the public sector, because it is responsible for this, has taken an organised and systematic approach and has also taken practically all the decisions and measures necessary to ensure that the wage system in the public sector is regulated. However, since the question was different from that which was predicted in writing, which is the rule in this mandate and contrary to the Rules of Procedure, let me first say that what was said is not true. In those companies where the country is the majority owner, such as Telekom, Holding Slovenian Power Plants and some others, where we have a majority decision-making power until privatisation takes place, salaries and awards to supervisors have decreased significantly in relation to the previous term of office. Where the state is a minority owner, it has no effect, and I recall these discussions from the past in this same Chamber, as has been said many times from these same types, that the government must not interfere with the policy of wages in the economy. I do not rule out the possibility that where these meetings are also in companies where the state is still co-owner, too high that there are anomalies here, but I claim with full awareness that there are significantly fewer of them than before and that these things are being regulated. However, as I said at the outset, there is progress in regulating or determining wage policies. This year, for the first time, employers' and trade unions' representatives entered into a bipartite contract without government interference when it comes to salaries in the private sector, the private sector. And that's very commendable. When it comes to the public sector, a decree was adopted, which, after long, long years, regulates for the first time the salaries of directors in the public sector, where the greatest anomalies were previously, because the allowances were also paid at 50% to 60% of the monthly salary, and this was generally regular. As you know, a decree on the salaries of officials has also been adopted in this National Assembly. As with the Directors' salary decree, it should enter into force on 1 March this year, the Constitutional Court has retained it and the matter is currently frozen. We hope that the final decision of the Constitutional Court will take place as soon as possible and that the situation will be resolved. The government will certainly insist that wages are dependent on efficiency and diligence in the public sector, not on the function itself. When it comes to civil servants' salaries, negotiations are under way with the public sector trade unions, where I hope that we will soon be done and that things will be settled by 2009. In general, with regard to wages, I can say that, after all the forecasts this year, when wages in Slovenia actually increase, nominal wage growth will be more than 5%, with a slightly more than 2% inflation forecast, we can expect more than 2% of real wage growth, which is very good compared to previous years, especially if we take into account data on increased productivity in Slovenia this year, which is expected to increase by 3.8%, which means that this real wage growth is on a real basis and that Slovenia is making progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u51	Sure. Mr President, thank you. In no way did you respond to very specific cases. In Luka Koper, the recipients of supervisors have increased by almost four times and is headed by your government's Secretary of State. A number of other cases are - Inter Europe, Petrol, State Secretary, Special Affairs Commissioner for the Economy Mrs Starina Kosem is a member of three Supervisory Boards, Three Financial Investments, Slovenian Railways, Capital Society. They make more than one month's salary. Why are you kidding?Oh, my God! What are you talking about? Mr. Dremelj, who you named at the head of Telekom, has 3.6 million dollars of gross wages. Where else are the awards? At the annual level, this can amount to up to 80 million tolars. And I'm just asking you, what kind of pay policy are you going to? And this isn't a 1976 debate, this is a 2003 debate, when you were sitting about this place where I'm sitting right now, and you triggered these questions. But when you became Prime Minister, the first thing you did was raise your politicalally appointed supervisors there four times, flatteners, meetings, awards. This can be empirically verified and there is no doubt about it, the data here is clear. And you took four steps: for the first time, you politically appointed them to administrations and supervisory councils, in the second step you had to train them at the expense of taxpayers, and in the third step you raised their meetings to four times, in the fourth step you unloaded them with tax reform. And let the data be published if you hope how much will now be saved by those state secretaries who are on three supervisory boards at annual level compared to workers who earn 100,000 tolars a year. And that's what I'm talking about. Please answer these very specific cases, I am very specific to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u52	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u53	So, for the first time, in all market economies - and Slovenia is a market economy - members of corporate administrations, especially large ones, earn more than workers working for running lanes. If someone doesn't like this system, he can look at another system, he can look at history; we also had one with us, and he didn't drive us far. As far as membership in the supervisory boards is concerned, this government, in opposition to many former people in positions, has reduced the number of supervisory councils in which an individual may be a member, has previously been limited to five, now this is limited to three. I will not list the names of the people who, during your term of office, were also state secretaries and various officials, but were not sitting in three but in four or five supervisory councils. The data provided by you regarding individual companies could be verified if the issue was correctly predicted. I don't know how much meetings are in Petrol or in Luka Koper, because they're not determined by this government, they're determined by the supervisory councils. In Petrol, the country has less than 30% of the stake, if I'm not mistaken. This is an economic company which is treated in accordance with market conditions and the results of the management. For you, this has never been an issue before, but now it's suddenly. The question you raised was: the implementation of wage policy in the economy and in the economy. That was your question. If we were to raise a question about meetings in the supervisory councils, where the state is the majority owner, we would serve you properly with this information. However, they are usually also publicly published and, as far as I know, do not deviate from the practice in comparable countries and even less deviate from what has happened so far. So I find it very unusual to change the board so quickly on these things. By implementing the government's policy of withdrawing from the economy, which will largely be completed by the end of this mandate, these problems will no longer be. Most companies will be privatised, private owners will set salaries, meetings and so on, in full, although this is already happening to a large extent. As far as tax legislation is concerned, however, which is proposed. It is proposed to raise the general personal allowance at income by 11%. This will relieve everyone, including those behind the lowest wages. Surely the other tax policy shifts are such that they will increase salaries for all in the year ahead, as will be said in 2007 although we have high growth, wages will increase in real terms with low inflation and there will be fewer jobs with higher productivity. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr Lahovnik, before I give you the floor to announce and explain the proposal, to discuss the President's response to the National Assembly, I would like to point out that, at this stage, it is not possible to ask new questions and observations because the President no longer has the opportunity to answer them. In parliamentary democracy, it is possible to ask any questions and obvious questions, but only then and only by giving the accused the opportunity to answer them. Because of the unpleasant experience of previous meetings, when some Members made new and most unfounded allegations at this stage, the accused were unable to defend you because of the business provisions, but I am warning you now that I will not be able to allow such abuses of the rules of procedure any longer, so please take this into account. Here you go, Mr. Mogownik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly, for reading what you had written. That is why, in accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion of the Prime Minister's replies because I wish to allow him to answer all those questions that he has not answered at all. This is precisely the purpose of this article, and I hope that you will allow me to explain and not interrupt or try to silence me. For the first time, the reason why I demand this debate is that the country has a very large ownership stake in the economy. I only referred to those companies where the country has a dominant stake. The second reason, I referred very specifically to the two State secretaries, the President of the Supervisory Board, Luke Koper, and to the distinguished Secretary of State, Andrijano Starina Kosem, who is a member of the three Supervisory Councils. Maybe the Prime Minister says it's not pay, it's not pay policy, but if someone gets 15 million tolars at an annual level, you know, it doesn't matter what you call it, it's something that needs to be discussed. And the additional argument is, of course, that the Prime Minister has called on the government to have no significant ownership stakes in these companies. I hereby base this on the fact that the state has a 30% ownership stake in Petrol, but the President of the Petrol Supervisory Board is a classmate and a personal friend of the Prime Minister, State Secretary Andrijana Starina Kosem has influenced the composition of the Supervisory Council as a whole and the third reason is that, if we look at the case of Petrol, the SDS Vice-President in Kranj and the President of the SDS Regional Coordination for Gorenjska has been given the most profitable petrol pump at the motorway cross. I simply do not believe that the SDS does not have any influence in Petrol, so I really ask that you allow this debate to take place, because it is not only about pay policy, but also about broader issues of clientism and corruption. Above all, my respects, I base my debate on the fact that these are visible political officials who are members of the supervisory councils. It's not anyone. The government's secretaries are political officials, and if the meetings just in the case of Luke Koper, where you see a political official of your government, Mr Janša, the Secretary of State of the Supervisory Board increase from 8 million to over 30 million dollars, that is, I think it is worth a fair answer. Therefore, I ask that you allow a debate on the failure of the Prime Minister to respond and to discuss it. Don't tell me these incomes aren't wages. That, I think, is offensive to the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u56	The proposal by Mr Lahovnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of pay policy will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Bojan Kontic will put the next question to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the one from whom we want the answer, and in our case, not the accused, the ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! For the planned further development of the Slovenian economy and society, the quality and cost-effective supply of electricity is certainly important. We are faced with new challenges, decisions are being taken to further invest in energy, with the aim of providing self-sustainment. Mindful of the fact that the Slovenian market is also opening up in this area and that there are still many unknowns in this area, I ask you, Prime Minister, about the government's views on the privatisation of electricity or on the search for possible potential strategic partners for new investments. For us in social democracy, it is certainly important to have jobs, especially quality jobs and the further regional development of those areas where the facilities are today and where new planned energy facilities will become. I also ask you for the position of the government or your personal position regarding the reorganization of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding - we know that it is planned - and we are also interested in your position towards the so-called second pillar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you so much for asking. In July this year, the government adopted a model of privatisation of the Slovenian electricity industry. In part, you've already told yourself what's planned. We want to create such a market situation so that competition will also influence price formation, while of course providing electricity customers in Slovenia with stable, safe and economic water supply. Following this concept, two comprehensive service providers would have equal access to infrastructure. Holding Slovenian power plants as the first bidder will consolidate into a single company following this plan, which will include Dravske and Soske power plants, then Termoelectrica Šoštanj, Premogovnik Velenje, Holding Slovenian power plants Invest d.o.o. and Thermoelectric Trbovlje. There will also be links to the market share of the electricity industry, according to Elektro Ljubljana, Primorska and Gorenjska, and once the company is consolidated, privatisation will be carried out using a model whereby the country retains 51% of the equity share in the market and the remaining share will be sold on the market, partly to domestic suppliers, partly to capital investors, and partly to a strategic partner, which would also ensure participation in the active management and management of the company's business policy. After the completion of the first phase, if a successful phase of three to five years is to take place, a second phase of privatisation is to be carried out, after which the State retains a control rate of 26 per cent in order to maintain its impact on the strategic decisions relating to the conduct of the Holding. The second supplier or second pillar, as you called Eles Gen, remains state-owned and consists of Slovenian ownership of the Krško, Brestanica and Sava power plants. This part provides on the market of another tenderer which, of course, allows mines to have a choice on the Slovenian market. Such a plan, as has already been said, will wait three to five years for the second phase of the privatisation of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants to measure the effects in the practice of the first phase and also, of course, the economic results.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Kontic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this first part of the response, but in the Group of Social Democrats we share our concern with representatives of energy workers, who are from all the letters sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, skeptical of the announced privatisation. They do not see the need to seek the participation of external strategic partners in the planning and implementation of domestic investments. In particular, they fear that this will mean moving profits, reducing the number of domestic operators and, of course, damage to energy workers for the time being. It would still be acceptable to find a strategic partner to look for new opportunities and opportunities in foreign markets, but certainly, at least the expert debate on this shows that in Slovenia external strategic partners in the field of energy do not need to be looked for in the field of investment. Nor are there compelling arguments for the establishment of the so-called second pillar and thus in some way creating artificial competition. It is also disputed that the procedure is run by a minister, who is also the first supervisor of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. Employees certainly want to participate in such important decisions as the restructuring of the Holding and the privatisation of energy. We propose that the Committee of Economic and Social Affairs remain alive in this mandate and that further activities in this area be identified through dialogue. I ask you, Mr President: Will you contribute to the ability of employees to influence the further transformation of electricity companies? [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you, too, for this additional question. The concern of employees in electric companies would be justified if nothing had happened, as the situation has changed and is still changing. For businesses, the electricity market in Europe has already liberalised, and the following year it will also be for households. Whoever can come to the Slovenian market and offer electricity, under conditions that will, of course, be competitive, and if we do nothing ourselves, actual jobs in these companies will be at risk. It is said that what has been adopted is a measure that is also a response to the changed conditions - we hope to be just in time - and it does not threaten but, on the contrary, saves jobs. It also allows that knowledge, which is sufficient in this sector, to become a function of expansion to offers for foreign markets, there are possibilities, but there is certainly not enough capital capacity within the current capacity both for investments at home and for penetration into foreign markets. Therefore, from the partner who will enter the privatisation process in Holding Slovenian Power Plants, of course we also promise new capacities or support for expansion to foreign markets. This is one of the strategic objectives that is also included in the privatisation programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not take advantage of the rules of procedure or abuse, as has been repeatedly warned here. I think it is necessary to talk seriously and thoroughly about the privatisation of electricity systems in Slovenia, the transformation of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. This enables us to have a debate which could be held at the next meeting. Speaking of establishing the so-called second pillar, it is of utmost importance that companies or entities now on the one hand remain in the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and others in the so-called second pillar be deployed. At first glance, the position of both entities in the future Slovenian electricity policy as well as the strategy can be seen. Therefore, I am also convinced, on the basis of thorough analyses prepared by employees also within the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and representatives of employees within all these electricity companies in Slovenia, that there is actually a need to talk about this in a substantive way. To speak in a way that even those who are not in direct contact with government representatives will be given certain answers to our questions, and perhaps also to address the particular fears that are now present both among the employees and, as I said, in the Socialist Group of Members, we share this fear with the employees. Perhaps it is already true what you said, Prime Minister, that if there were no changes envisaged, jobs could be threatened. But from the current situation, we can see that current electricity supply is quality, that there are no major problems, and what tomorrow is going to be, is a big question. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of its second paragraph, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kontic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the privatisation of the electricity economy, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The following question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u67	Your Honors are here! Allow me to begin my question with a quote from the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia: "The national borders of the Republic of Slovenia are internationally recognised state borders of the SFRJ with the Republic of Austria, with the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Hungary in the work in which these countries border the Republic of Slovenia" - and what is most important - "and the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in the context of the current SFRJ". Ladies and gentlemen, both in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both the Prime Minister and, last but not least, all Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party, you act as if the last paragraph did not exist; as if Slovenia still does not have the required borders, as if it did not have its territory and thus does not meet the conditions of the sovereignty of the State. As you probably know, an incident occurred a few days ago in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in the area of Hotiza. The Republic of Croatia has occupied part of our territory by means of its armed forces. The government of Mr Janez Janša has also responded this time as all the previous ones in the Republic of Slovenia have responded, so it is kind and self-defense with the term 'diplomatic'. This diplomacy, we know, did not lead to what Slovenia would have put aside the sovereign state, which means that even in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we would have a clear border and thus a clear territory. Unfortunately, this clarity is only within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. If we look at history and look at the period when Slovenia entered the European Union, we see that our paths were conditional on two sides. Firstly, conditioned by the European Union institution in the form of various chapters which our country, government and national assembly had to meet; and secondly, that our journey was conditional on requests from neighbouring Austria and requests from neighbouring Italy. The Republic of Slovenia has fulfilled all requests coming individually from Austria and Italy in everything, always under tactics or under the content of future opportunities. The same has happened in the context of joining NATO's military organisation. The government has always spoken when we talk about the European Union, then we have nothing to fear. I therefore ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, what about territorial integrity and when will you also start to respect it within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, more importantly, protect it? So, the protection of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you for asking. At least within this mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall implement the provision of the Basic Constitutional Charter, which you cited. No agreement was signed in this mandate, no agreement with the neighbouring country which would not have been based on the situation, as far as I am concerned, on 25.6.1991. Even when it comes to this last question concerning these latest events near Hotiz, the declaration adopted by both governments as the starting point for the border in this area was set on 25 June 1991. Unlike what happened before, if you had announced the Drnovšek-Račan agreement signed by the Drnovškov government, then the border would not have gone through Mura as it went on 25.6.1991, but on the embankment deep on the Slovenian side. If the agreement had been signed in 2002, the Croatian police would have exercised control of the territory as far as the national territory of the Republic of Croatia was concerned. This is said in the agreements signed at the time of the previous governments led by the people who, at these recent events in Hotiza, were very loud about how this government negotiates. I am glad that things have returned to their original state and that all options are open in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u71	Mr Prime Minister, in your reply you said "last events in Hotiz" and allow me to correct you here and say: past events. It follows that we all know, both you and the government as a whole, as a national assembly, that such events will be in Slovenian territory, i.e. Croatian aggression, in the future a great deal. From this title, Mr President, you have personally received the position of the Group of Members with five conclusions. With regard to these events, your foreign minister has thus received five identical conclusions from the Slovenian National Party and, last but not least, in connection with these events, he has had the opportunity to decide on the State Assembly at an extraordinary meeting, but none of the 90 Members and Members, except the National Party's delegation, of course, have agreed to speak out on relations with the neighbouring country of Croatia. I therefore appeal to you or ask you: How do you, as Prime Minister, continue to advocate unconditional support for the Republic of Croatia when it joins the European Union? Has not the history and blackmail of Austria and Italy taught us enough on the path of Slovenian association to the European Union to choose a different path, but not to continue on the path of previous governments, which you see did not close any questions with the Republic of Croatia? Is the Slovenian territory and the citizens and citizens living near or close to the aforementioned Slovenian territories, which are under the ever-increasing aggression of the Republic of Croatia, sufficient reason to withdraw this unconditional support to the Republic of Croatia? According to our assessment, it would make sense for your Members, the ruling majority, to allow them to speak on this matter at a meeting of the National Assembly, where the five extremely important and extremely high-quality decisions that we have proposed, i.e. the signing of the Slovenian National Party, would be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u73	So each new member of the European Union will be voted on at the end by this Parliament. It will then be an opportunity for such discussions whether a country deserves support or not. To wave about these things before they decide to do so is usually an empty shot. It is in Slovenia's interest that the European Union is expanding, that it is also expanding to our neighbourhood, including the neighbouring country of Croatia. As countries in our neighbourhood adopt European standards and European legislation, the framework in which we resolve bilateral issues is improving and these strategic advantages of Slovenia need to be realised. The government's strategy of action, now with these issues, I have explained to you in more detail at the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, and I am pleased that this strategy has also been supported by the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you. Would you like to propose a discussion on the President's response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u75	I therefore exercise the right referred to in Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure and propose that tomorrow the National Assembly vote on the response of the Prime Minister. And allow a brief explanation. If we had heard earlier that some kind of conditionalization of the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Croatia on its entry into Euro-Atlantic connections would be an empty shot, then I can safely say that the reply of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia was an empty shot. The fact is that Slovenia, like all other countries that are trying to become associated or members of the European Union, has been subject to conditionalities and has fulfilled all these conditions. So we can't talk about shots in the middle of nowhere. Slovenia has also fulfilled all the conditions that individual Member States have sent us for admission. And, allow me, why I think that the debate would be absolutely necessary. For the first time, because I fear that the message or "message" as is modern in recent times, today's response by the Prime Minister will be misunderstood. I sincerely hope that he does not personally think as he said, so that Slovenia should continue to unconditionally support neighbouring Croatia when entering the European Union. It would also make sense to at least cover that blemish by means of an extensive debate when none of the Members, except the Members of the National Party, was willing to sign their signature for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the subject of those matters. I think that, with this kind of debate on the Prime Minister's response, at least some communication would be given to the Slovenian public, not least to the international public, that Slovenia will start to fight more specifically for its territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how ridiculous it may seem to anyone, but pure accounts, good friends. We will remain neighbours with the Republic of Croatia, so it would be wise to break with this kind of political diplomatic farce, as this and previous government does, and finally establish such a border as may be unpopular for the neighbouring Republic of Croatia for the first time, but in the long term we need clean accounts. The worst part is that this agony, as I said before, continues with the Slovenian diplomatic farce. That's what you need to call a stop! Let's define the limit the Republic of Slovenia has! There is no disputed territory and Croats need to show on the one hand who they are and where they want to go and where they can only come with the support of the Slovenian State; not unconditionally open this door. I appreciate and expect the National Assembly to find so much wisdom and support the proposal for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Pečet, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of resolution of border issues in Hotiz, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. This concludes the question to the Prime Minister. I'm sorry, but the last question will be asked by Prime Minister Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! I must say that today in Ormož we are beginning to process sugar bees, which on the one hand we are happy, and on the other hand we are concerned. The majority owner of the sugar factory is the Dutch company Cosun and, as is generally known, on 22 June, the Dutch company adopted a decision at its assembly on the closure and cessation of the processing of sugar, thus also producing sugar beet in the Republic of Slovenia. Such a decision is due to the changed market order for sugar, which has significantly reduced the price of sugar on the European market and thus reduced the price of sugar beet as raw materials. The closure could, of course, have happened last year because the market order had been changed since last year, but the government, with its efforts and conclusions, reached an agreement and this production resumed in 2006. Such a decision favoured many of the decisions the government has taken, and I would like to thank you for that. But now we are in a situation that if this decision is made, 25 as a 25-year-old production and the story of sugar production in Ormož will somehow come to an end. The closure of the factory would undoubtedly have major economic and social consequences for the northeastern part of Slovenia, which is already lagging behind the rest of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that the error in this direction was, of course, made in 1996, when the then government decided that, through the KAD and the SOD, it had agreed to sell its shares to foreigners, but I must say that the shares were sold by agricultural cooperatives. It was clear at the time and it was clear that the market order, as it was in Europe, would not hold back from changing and, of course, the consequences of such a change in the market order were known at that time. Despite the closure decision, there are now some possibilities for redemption and the transfer of sugar, some specific buyers, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food are working very hard in this direction. The local newspaper reports it as if it's a fact. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister, what can the government do in this situation? How can it help to maintain the work of these 190, 200 workers and, of course, more than 2,200 to 2,300 farmers who have become accustomed to producing sugar beet? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you for asking. As you said, in 1996, if I am not mistaken, sold the majority share or virtually the whole share of the sugar factory, it retained less than 1% of the ownership, which does not represent any impact, and everything that can be done here can be done in agreement with the owners if they agree. We have reached an agreement for a one-year extension with much effort and pain, but in the same context, owners are not prepared to continue their sugar production in the long term because they are not paid for after this amended market order, which is now in force in the European Union, so that three options are practically or more theoretically available: closure, continuation, while the current owners are willing to sell to someone who is willing to continue to produce sugar or restructuring. Prison - we all know what it means. However, I do not think it is entirely possible to avoid this unless the current owners agree to any other option, it is necessary to know that the decision or lever to intervene strategically here was sold in 1996, 10 years ago. The continuation of the current production with another majority owner is a theoretical option, there is a foreign company offering to buy shares and continue production, but for all investments, it also requires State guarantees and State guarantees for market risks, which are strictly prohibited for sugar production. Within the European Union, Slovenia cannot grant such State aid under such conditions as this potential buyer requires. So the third option is to restructure production. We talked a lot about this with the current owners when this extension took place for one year. This is a restructuring in terms of bioethanol production. During this time, Slovenia has established conditions for, say, market conditions for this production. We have adopted a regulation in accordance with the European directives requiring the mixing of bioethanol into mineral fuels, while reducing excise duties on such fuels, that this use and production are economic. For the restructuring of sugar beet production on maize, and if I am not mistaken, wheat from which bioethanol could be produced can be obtained from the European restructuring fund, provided that production is not competitive in any way in the production of sugar and it is not. Thus, the condition for obtaining these funds is a complete cessation of sugar production and a complete restructuring. The government seems to be the most realistic option. It would allow employees in the factory to keep their jobs, allowing those who now produce or produce sugar beet to produce something else on the same surfaces to make no substantial investment in such production, but also to a large extent, depending on the good will of the current owners, whether they go into this project or to sell it to someone who would go through this restructuring. Our Ministry of Agriculture is here in an intensive dialogue, and what will be the final solution, and it is not possible to predict at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby conclude the questions raised to Mr President of the Government. And we're moving on to parliamentary questions. At the 17th and 19th meetings of the National Assembly are Members of the Villa Trophynik, Josip Bajc, Sam Bevk, mag. Borut Saiovic, Bojan Kontic, Lucky Friend, mag. Milan M. Cvikl and Mrs. Maria Possonec asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs. Maria Lukačič, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Rupl, Minister for the Interior, Mr. Dragutin Mate, Minister for the Economy of Mags. To Andre Visiak and to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bajuk. Since the Minister and Ministers were not present at the meeting, the Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are also absent today. That is why Members William Trophynik and Members of the Parliament will reply to the question at the next meeting. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Trofenik, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present. I'm sorry the Prime Minister left. I must protest most decisively against the attitude of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food against my question in May. She didn't answer. She apologized. June didn't respond orally, she wasn't there. You sent me a written reply to July against the rules of procedure. When I protested, you apologized to me that there was a mistake in writing the minutes and attached all possible statements of employees who allegedly committed and listened to the oral request and received a written request. This also shows the previous question, is an integral part of this farce, that someone does not hope for the Slovenian public, before the Slovenian Parliament faces a real problem in all its width of the closure of the Ormož Sugar Factory. Unfortunately, too, the authority of the Prime Minister has been abused and the President has been misled by false information and, of course, this has been the answer. That is why I protest most decisively against such a relationship and against such a way, so that you cannot, unfortunately, hide the harmful agreement that was concluded in favour of the factory owner. And of course, it is not true that this is an exclusive decision of the owners, but it is an offence on the part of the Republic of Slovenia, because it did not know how to assess the costs of the closure, or it inherited the owners who assessed these costs, in particular in terms of ecology, before the Directive was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, how this is done and how this is calculated. I therefore protest most decisively, but the consequences will be the greatest for our part of Slovenia. And of course, I am also responsiblely adding here that this farce will happen here today, I was informed this morning by telephone from abroad, which gives a special charm to these events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u82	Mr. Trofenik, we have not heard a procedural proposal. You've had a debate. I hope you'll have a chance to ask these questions when the Minister is present. I give the floor to Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, who will answer Mr Josip Bajc's question on the issue of the protection of minors. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. I apologize once again, unfortunately for the last time I had obligations at the level of the European Union, so I was not at the Parliament meeting. With regard to the question that was asked the last time, the following: I must say that after the adoption of the law, the police have also implemented section 21 of the law, in which the police have for the first time been given full powers, where they can control the use or loading of alcoholic beverages and the absence and inability or prohibition of visiting alcoholic beverages bars between midnight and five o'clock in the morning. Here in recent years, if I look so statistically, from 2004 to 2005, the police have dealt with almost 2,000 violations related to alcohol consumption restrictions from 2004 to 2005. In doing so, it must be said that other inspection services have carried out their work as well. I can also say that since the police have been exercising new powers in relation to article 21 for minors under 16 years of age, we have detected 6 infringements that we have dealt with and have been associated with public events or establishments where alcoholic beverages and the prohibition of detention in these establishments are being held in those hours. When the police carry out their work, we are very strict about certain things, we are currently doing this, we are doing Article 21 by recording activities that are on the ground with regular activities, slightly increased activities in certain places at certain times, which have already been mentioned. Of course, we also plan a related work with the health inspectorate, the market inspectorate and the education and sport inspectorate, and as soon as we record a large number of certain offences, we connect, firstly transfer the infringements to these inspectorates, which we invite them to do their part and at the same time carry out activities with them. So far, we have not planned any major activities that would have been planned in advance and at the same time would have been performed by all but simply not because we have not recorded any major violations at this time. The moment we detect such major violations, together with the other inspectorates, we will carry out organised actions to prevent this. At the same time, we must not forget that only the implementation of Article 21 of the Law on Public Order and Peace is under the exclusive competence of the police, and that is why the police, with all their resources and powers, will implement this article of the law in full and will involve the rest of the services only when we note that there are more of these violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you. Minister of Economy Mag. Andreja Vizjak, please answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about the implementation of the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. For 2006 and 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provided in the budget the necessary resources to complete the closure programme of the Idri mine, and these funds are based on an approved closure programme. It is true, however, that the management of the Idria Mine has prepared a novelization of the program or programme of necessary parts to maintain the unsoaked part of the cave and the monitoring of the finished closing parts. In May this year, the programme was also addressed by the Supervisory Board, which requested the Administration to complete the route at certain points. The government has not yet received all the necessary additional documentation in order to define itself before this revised programme and has not been able to take account of all these resources in the preparation of the budget documents for the coming year. However, we will also take into account the new facts in the preparation of the budget documents in so far as they arise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Bevk wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! I asked this oral question to the Minister, who was absent at the time, on 10 July. If Mr. Minister had read a magnetogram of these questions, I would have seen that he had barely answered one of the five mentioned sub-questions. That is why I would ask the Minister to have his services examine all my 10 July sub-questions and answer my oral question in writing, because this answer was very sceptical and lacking. I am pleased that you are planning funds for 2007 as well, but the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija Mercury Mine, or the amendment of this law, which was adopted in the 2004 National Assembly, provides that the mine closure programme should be amended. This document is also prepared by the Government for the period after 2006, when the cave part of the mine will be closed, as Article 12 of the amended law clearly states that the transformation of the company is necessary after 2006 to change the mine's activity in order to maintain the unsoaked part of the cave, monitoring and maintenance of the museum mine. So I would ask you to update this document that I have here in my hand as soon as possible, because by the end of this year it is only a few months. In addition, I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, when are you going to pay back the mining damage of $800 million, as indicated in this document? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Of course, I answered the question sent to the Ministry of the Economy and we will be happy to examine the magnetogram as this question was probably divided into some sub-assemblies. And normally, we answer the question and all the sub-questions that have been raised if they have been, and we will consider it. Surely there is no problem in answering you in detail, for we think it is an important matter. Once again, the basis is, of course, a programme which in some ways also provides for a legal basis for any payment. The programme has not yet been revised and, consequently, there is no legal basis for planning different resources than we planned in the 2006 and 2007 budgets, and we will do so after the amendment. Thank you very much for the warnings, what needs to be taken into account in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you. I ask the Minister to now answer the question of the Magi. Boruta Saiovica on solving the problem of certain mountain companies with a state ownership stake. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u91	After examining this question, I believe that the issue was primarily the question of Iskraemeca, an undertaking which addressed to the country the application for State aid for the resolution of firms in difficulty on the basis of a specific law adopted by this Parliament. I must say that all other companies, whether mountain or other regions, can, on this legal basis, apply to the State for State aid, which is then considered under the procedure. Therefore, the Interdepartmental Expert Commission has assessed that the restructuring programme of Iskraemec is good, and this aid has also been positively assessed. Given that, in the case of Iskraemec, a company which is subject to the rules of the European Community as a large undertaking, we are also obliged under European law to obtain the Commission's consent to this aid. Procedures are actually in the final stage and we expect an answer. For some companies that are not large companies, this is not necessary, but in this case it is necessary. In its application, the company stated that the requested aid amounting to 300 million tolars is necessary for the preparation of the restructuring programme and we consider that this aid is justified. We are aware, however, that the situation in the company is very complex and also critical. However, it is important to stress here that the decomposition of the situation is primarily in the hands of the administration, its managers, as well as owners, shareholders, as well as creditors and creditors of companies who, in our belief, will work for the benefit and well-being of businesses. Of course, the State directly, not in the case of Iskraemec, nor in any other case, is, of course, within the structure of the parastatal funds of the KAD and the SOD, and is therefore in the full jurisdiction of these companies and their administrations to determine, in accordance with business logic, the behaviour of the good host also to various programmes and thus to act in favour of society. Therefore, if you ask us what the Ministry of the Economy can do, all I can tell you is that, of course, we are trying to solve these problems for the benefit and development of businesses, so that companies can also receive as soon as possible and as effectively as possible State aid if they are eligible, and all this is happening in the case of Iskraemeco, as well as in other companies in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, for your answer. In your answer, unfortunately, you only touched the answer to half the question. The question concerned Iskraemeco and the company PGP, a subsidiary of Peka, which owns 95% of the country. As far as Iskraemec is concerned, we are talking a lot about the withdrawal of the country from the economy, and I am sorry that you have rejected an important strategic partner, but on the other hand, I am glad that the situation and the recapitalisation that is now in this stage have at least temporarily resolved this story. I'm so glad the banks are 100% paid. I'm sorry that suppliers are paid only 80%, but unfortunately, they're going to pull 3,000 small shareholders in the short run, and they're going to hire. For us as upper Gorenjek and Tržićane, however, the rescue story of PGP seems very important to me. I want to know: what are the objectives of the sale? This country is selling this company in difficulty. Are you providing by selling the preservation of all jobs? And: Will any other jobs be open? Do you know that in this company, an PGP worker who has 8 night workers per month earns only 103 thousand and who work in extremely difficult and difficult working relationships? And: How is it possible that part of the property of this PGP factory has been transferred by contract free of charge to the management of the municipality, despite the fact that in these buildings the administration of an important company of this and that part of these buildings is also intended for production? I do not think that this decision was the most appropriate decision and that in terms of maintaining jobs, in maintaining better working conditions [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And better wages to do more and change here. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Economy, as well as the government and I believe that all financial institutions owned by the State, also treat their companies or those enterprises where they have majority shares, in the light of a good host, with a view to the further development of these companies, as well as the preservation or development of jobs. Thus, this is always at the forefront, and the rejection or non-return of options related to Iskraemec has also been judged mainly on the basis of wages. KAD and SOD decided in the case of Iskraemec, I believe, to the best extent possible, given the complexity of the problem. Once again, I stress that they are themselves responsible for these investments, and here it is unacceptable for the Ministry or Government to intervene in any way in this autonomy of decision-making. You're assessing for yourself that the breakup that happened is a good one and that, according to my assessment, it can also suggest an even better end. However, the second issue was, of course, linked to the company of PGP. As you have already determined, the majority share of the PGP company is owned by Peka d.d. And it is true that the State or Republic of Slovenia has a majority share in the company of Pekko, but this does not mean that the country can also be involved in Pek's business decisions, since the administration of Pek has completely free hands on its investments after the current acts of the company.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you. I ask the Minister to answer Mr Kontić's questions now. Excuse me, Mr. Saiovic, do you have a proposal for a discussion? Please, secondly, please raise your hand a little sooner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, maybe we've been each other for a second. Thank you very much for your understanding. The story of PGP and Market Peck is extremely important to me as a Marketer, and I would therefore ask if, in accordance with paragraph 246 of Article 246, we can discuss Mr Visian's response, which is possible in the right direction, but 130 people who work under difficult conditions, for poor pay, in any way deserves more attention, more care. I therefore propose that this response be further supplemented at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u98	On the proposal by Mr Saiovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's reply to his question of how to resolve the problems of certain state-owned Gorenje companies in the context of tomorrow's vote. I now ask Mr Visiak to answer the question of Mr Bojan Kontić on the envisaged investment in the construction of the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanyj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Economy has positively defined all the proposals made by the owner of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, namely Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant, regarding investments. Thus, in April of this year, it issued an energy permit for the 600-megawat bloc and is following our assessment that it is an urgent and important investment in the modernisation of products in the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant linked to the use of domestic wholesale coal. To begin with, it sounds like 600 megawatts big, but if we know that it shuts down non-profit production, which deals with very low benefits. In fact, it is slightly less than 200 megawatts of power gain on existing production. We have a positive assessment of this investment in three ways in particular: the first very important direction is that the new investment reduces Slovenia's energy or electricity dependence, as you know, we lack about 20% of production resources relative to consumption in Slovenia when we talk about electricity. It is also aimed at improving the environmental impact of production facilities, as in fact the 600-megawatt block will benefit from significantly higher production of similar amounts of coal while also releasing less emissions into the environment. It is also very important to me that this social effect and effect, because this production will be used on the one hand at home primary source, thereby reducing Slovenia's energy dependence, while at the same time it will be able to employ many people in the Shale region in the long term, both in coal production and in its use for electricity production. In short, we have also identified ourselves positively on the basis of some assessments. I have to say one key dilemma. With such a large block there was a reserve to provide an adequate reserve when such block fell out, as we know, we already have one such facility in Slovenia, a nuclear power plant that has 700 megawatts of power and in the event of a failure, some sudden, unforeseen failure needs to be provided immediately with an adequate reserve. And in the event of the collapse of another 600 megawatt block, this problem can result in undesirable consequences for both the economy and the household. As a result, it took us some time to get all the appropriate positive views of the competent agencies and services, including, inter alia, the Public Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which we received on 7 July, and I think, on the basis of all these documents and the energy permit issued, it is possible to conclude on the very positive position of the Government and the Ministry on this particular project.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Minister, for that optimistic answer. Let me just comment on the outage. It's not really that important a fallout or a permanent foreign source. Even here, if there is a permanent foreign source, there may be a fallout and it needs to be resolved. I'm curious now as a complementary question: Will this investment actually be? Are foreign partners, strategic partners needed to do this, or will Holding do this on its own? With regard to the positive attitude of the Ministry towards the decision of the owner, of course, it is good, but once again, on behalf of the government, you are also the first supervisor of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, so that you can also speak on behalf of the owner, not only as Minister. The following is the question: Is this investment, if this investment actually happens, will it be exclusively a giant lignite, or is it planned to trade coal from somewhere else? This is the next question that has to do with this. Moreover, when we listened to the resolution in national projects a while ago, it was said that this was still an alternative. If alternative sources of energy were to be found, it is not necessary to build the 6th block of the Chestnut power plant, so I wonder whether this investment will be carried out or not, is it still dependent on what else? Because within this resolution, Velenja is not an economic centre in national development programmes; it is not a higher education centre; it is virtually gone through the glasses of this Velenje government and the Valley of Shale. But it is good that what you mentioned earlier, you are talking about the Shale region, if you give it to Savinjska, you have got the right region, the Savinj region, which will also successfully take care of further development within itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting from me, too. I give my word to the Minister, Mag. Visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Of course, only information about the resolution. The resolution is a document that has not yet been accepted by the government and is therefore difficult to comment on. I must say that the alternative is related to block 2 of the Krška nuclear power plant and not to investment in the Šostanj thermal power plant, as far as I am aware of it. I have a positive view of this modernisation of the Šostjanje thermal power plant, of course it needs to be carried out with all due respect for economic logic and economic eligibility, and for once the data available to me show in this direction. Of course, intensive preparations are under way for this investment. There's no one who would tell them today that this investment is unnecessary, that it's as bad as it's set. That is why we are on the right track and are preparing for it optimally quickly, and I believe that according to the information I have, it can be useful and good and necessary. It's about funding. Each such major investment is, of course, financed by size, it is about €600 million; it is an estimate. I believe that the ability to raise this money in a number of ways, and certainly also through the recapitalisation of the mother of the holding, has already been said by the Prime Minister, what are the government's plans for this restructuring of the energy sector; and the recapitalisation of the single company, or the holding of the Slovenian power plant, is also able to find financial resources for such major investments. All I have to say is that the supply and also the wholesale electricity trade within the European Community is significantly more liberal, at least in the long term and in the short term. I would therefore like to stress that competition will be present and that this competition will also reduce the expected profits of companies. As a result, it is not to rely on very optimistic data from previous years on the financial capacity of Holding, even in the future. Therefore, I think it is better to look for external financial resources than to rely heavily on existing data on future profits and, of course, completely finance with debt capital. For this reason, I believe that it is appropriate to finance this project through privatisation through recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I repeat to Minister Viszak, who will answer this time the question of the colleague of Mr Sreč Friend on the supervision of the operation of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I see that the Member is not in the Chamber - am I wrong? Whatever. The question referred to the legal basis for the operation of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and on the basis of which decisions may, after the invitation to tender, raise the criteria for the receipt of financial resources and which institutions monitor the legality of the Fund's operations. First of all, at the Ministry of Economy, under the auspices of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, we have finally reached and found those measures that SMEs are interested in the aid offered for this Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Once again, I will draw attention to the figures that in 2004 only around 200 million subsidies were awarded through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, that in 2005 there were over 5 billion subsidies for companies following the rebalancing of the government's budget for these subsidies. This tells you about growth, and, of course, because the measures are geared towards the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, 15 billion demand applied this year. Therefore, in the tendering phase, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund has already defined a limit and, later, at the fund administration, a proposal that, in the event that the funds are not sufficient to finance all the relevant investments, companies that reach a higher number of points, and in the case that two companies have the same number of points, companies that have obtained multiple points under the modern technology criterion will then have an export or sales criterion outside the market of the Republic of Slovenia and, in the case of a business return criterion, have the advantage of these companies. It was therefore due to the increased demand for this criterion to be applied that companies that had exceeded 50 points, which was sufficient for a positive opinion that all companies with these points did not get, but unfortunately we had to cut down despite so much of the resources at the limits, because therefore there was more simple demand for these funds than there were the resources available.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think it is also right to say again that Mr Friend is excusedly absent from today's session and that he will be able to read your answer from the magnetogram. Now I invite Minister Bajuk to answer the question of the Magi Member. Squeezing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I answer the question raised at the 19th regular session, where I was not present. I would then like to answer to the Ambassador of Magi. Milan Squeakle, next. The government fiscal policy and the priorities of public finances management are very clear, covering for the first time - a gradual reduction of the deficit, which will help even in advance, as it has already helped so far, to ensure successful integration into the monetary union. Another time. Reducing domestic GDP expenditure and increasing expenditure flexibility and finally reducing the tax burden and simplifying the tax system. Government fiscal policy is perfect in line with the reformed Stability and Growth Pact, since, as is well known, in line with the Stability and Growth Pact of the country, with relatively higher economic growth and a low level of debt, they can set their medium-term objectives more flexibly. The government's medium-term target for 2005 to 2008 is to achieve a 1% gross domestic product deficit, which is far more ambitious than a 1.9% deficit, which would in itself ensure that the Maastricht fiscal criteria would not be exceeded. The rate of gradual fiscal consolidation is consistent with responsible fiscal policy, which reduces the fiscal burden by abolishing the tax on salaries paid, by reducing the progressiveity of the tax on the income of natural persons or on income. All these objectives are being followed in preparation, now final preparations in the 2007 and 2008 budget. The government will decide in these two budgets this week, and the National Assembly will have this at its disposal in the coming days for a thorough discussion. However, I would like to point out that the mixing and dispersion of expenditure from the State sector and the issuing of State guarantees in the same pot are both materially and methodologically wrong; both under the GFS methodology and on the ESA 95 methodology. It is also a misinterpretation of the debt situation of the state sector and of the state guarantee. The country's debt, the so-called 'general government', was below 30 per cent at the end of 2005, which is among the EU's lowest countries, and will remain at this level until 2008, as foreseen in the Convergence Programme. However, as regards the use of European funds, I would like to inform you that by the end of August 48.6 billion tonnes of revenue from the European budget was realised in the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Payments to the European budget by the end of the same month amount to 47.3 which is a positive difference of 1.3 billion tolars. Certainly we are not satisfied with how this is happening, although there are significant improvements in drawing. I would also like to point out that the Republic of Slovenia, from all Member States in this area, is still far from being the most successful in drawing on itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u108	Comrade Squeakle, supplemental question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I did not ask the Minister for some general indication of the situation, but I wanted to ask him very specifically what are the Government's priorities, what are its priorities in managing public finances. Indeed, I cannot help but overlook the fact that at this meeting of the National Assembly, we will correct the error of the Minister of Finance and increase the level of indebtedness by almost 70 billion so that some projects can be carried out this year. I cannot help but say that, together with the deficit, the indebtedness of the state and the guarantees issued in this National Assembly, not least with what we will be dealing with in relation to the announced programme of debt for the needs of the military, the Slovenian State, the Slovenian taxpayers, in less than two years, will be in charge of an additional 1.150 billion or almost one million tolars for each taxpayer; and therefore, Mr Minister, I would really like to hear what has been done with the government's promises of savings. In all the documents, from your coalition contracts to the development strategy, you wrote that by 2 percentage points, you will reduce government spending by 150 to 160 billion, but out of all this, the state is indeed growing by 5%, but so is the global economy. Germany has doubled economic growth, obviously we only have growth due to debt and the state has failed and, as can be seen from the documents available in 2006, 2007, 2008 to substantially redistribute and redistribute the public financial situation, so I would ask you, Mr Minister, to explain how you will prevent the debt from being transferred after the end of your term of office, in particular to remedy the poor financial situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle, for the supplementary question. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. As far as economic growth is the world average, I think this assessment will have to be reviewed again, and I advise you to do so. 5% of economic growth, as has already been proven in the first half of 2006, is obviously not at global level, but is significantly higher and compared to Germany's economic growth, is also a mistake of professional nature. But as for the debt and where they are, where is the saving of this government? I would like to remind everyone here and you were also present when we discussed the 2005 budget rebalancing, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate also had to face certain issues that were covered by the public's eyes, namely the debt of both ZPIZ and health insurance companies; and of course 41 billion, that in 2005 we had to assume certain responsibilities of 70 billion that were not prepared as appropriate. Otherwise, I would like to assure the National Assembly that fiscal situation and public finances are in a very good and stable state, that they also assess foreign institutions that review these things; that in fact the deficit - and if we take not only the budget, PIZ, health insurance, municipalities, but the whole, state sector - is actually improving and significantly improving. According to the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which was made available to the public on 30.8th, from 2.8% of gross domestic product, such as the deficit in 2003, if we take all of it, we came to minus 2.3 in 2004 and are now proven to minus 1.4 in 2005. Unfortunately, I do not yet have definitive data for 2006, but I can assure this national assembly that this deficit will not increase significantly. All talk of some catastrophe has no basis; the fact is that the government has done a great deal during this period to clean up things that have been wrongly done in the past, but more than we look to the future and as far as the future is concerned, we are sure [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Take it off. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, will you exercise your business rights? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u113	Sure. Please, if, at the time of the vote, we can decide on my procedural decision to hold, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 216, a discussion on the inadequate response of the Minister of Finance. I suggest that we do this at an extraordinary meeting, this will be the best opportunity when we address tax legislation. The Minister forgets what the International Monetary Fund says. This says that economic transformation has been successful in the last 12 years, but we are lagging behind in structural reforms, especially since some anti-reforms have been carried out in his power and we are lagging behind in greater efficiency of public spending. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have learned from the pre-departure that you and Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Maramor, have learned anything, or have you sought and made appropriate rationalisation through a selective analysis of individual budgetary spending programmes? You obviously didn't do it. That's why I didn't get an answer to how you'd stop the debt. There is no way to manage public finances now that we have managed to jump into the euro area. If we did so, it would be very popular among European bankers, but this is not the aim of public finance management. Mr Christmas cannot implement the programme without being in charge of this National Assembly, allowing Dars to be indebted for more than a billion euros. And these are the biggest loans you've proposed during your government. However, as we look at the economic structure of expenditure, it is clear that the government's priorities for 2007 and 2008 are only on these items; spending, military funding, southern border, government palace, congress-protocol centre and the Presidency of the European Union are increasing. And that is why, Mr Minister, I really hope that we will have the opportunity at the next meeting of the National Assembly before we conclude on tax reliefs, tax reliefs that do not reduce the tax burden for even a tolar, but ask ourselves whether it is good to burden some by 35 to 40 billion, but you alone do not provide enough money for social transfers. You want to change the indexation of social transfers or you will provide less and less money for school, health care and the like. And that's why we don't think the answer was appropriate. In particular, the answer was that the government intends to commit itself to failing to fulfil its pre-election promises and that in 2008 it will be necessary to remedy Bajuk's period of government in public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Public finances or fiscal policy are a very important topic, and as long as I am in charge of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will also talk about it. Mr Cvikl took advantage of the business opportunity given to him by the Rules of Procedure and explained his disagreement with the reply and requested a debate in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Let me lead the session. So, at the 19th and 17th meetings of the National Assembly, some Members were left unanswered. Today we received answers from Minister Dragutin Matei, mag. Mr Andrej Visiak and Mr Andre Bajuk. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members from this current meeting. 13th or first in line is Dr. Marko Pavliha, who will raise the question of the delegation to the Minister of Transport. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and a lucky number, and I hope that a happy breakup of the entire adventure on the fifth corridor. Thank you, too, for your kind replacement and a nice welcome to the ministers and fellow Members and Members, for my first contact at this autumn session. I am sure that my esteemed colleague, Minister Bozič, will agree with me that one of the major achievements of the government of Rob in April 2004 was the placement of the fifth corridor, which runs through Slovenian territory, among the European Union's priority projects, including the second track on the Koper-Divač route. The current government, including with me, has been quite successful in advocating this project at various levels of ministerial meetings. Let me mention just the meeting of the European Ministers in Ljubljana and some other meetings of the Council of the European Union. Then a new government took place and, quite logically, continued the project immediately. In April 2005, she adopted a location plan for this project, and then she began to think that the whole thing had fallen asleep. Well, I hope I'm wrong. Let me just mention a few arguments for that. Indeed, by the beginning of the summer 2006 it had not been spent so much on European cohesion funds. It follows from the budget that the minimum own resources allocated to this project are virtually nothing. The President or Vice-President of the Commission Jacques Barrot, who is responsible for transport, then pointed out the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of the construction of the fifth corridor. A similar sceptical warning could be heard here, in this National Assembly, by the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, a rather negative lobbying has recently been done by Italian Minister Lunardi. Well, the final report of former European Commissioner for Transport, Loyole de Palacio, and the current coordinator of the Fifth Corridor, from which Slovenia appears to be lagging behind in this area and that what could happen, the fifth corridor, at least in the railway work, will bypass us, so that it will not go from Kopra to the Hungarian border, but that it will take place on the Italian side, that is, on the western side of Slovenia, then through Austria and beyond Hungary and Ukraine. Of course, I ask the Minister: What will he do in this regard? However, I am convinced that this is in the national interest, irrespective of the political option of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for the question. I'm asking the Minister for answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Thank you, too, Dr. Mark Pavlich, for asking the question. Since the report by Mrs Loyle de Palacio, European coordinator for the sixth priority project of August this year, refers to her personal position [[That's what it says on the front page.]] in my reply, I will focus more on the European Commission's official communication, which we received last week and which I consider to be positive for Slovenia. I will also take a closer look at the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. both reports. In this report, which we have received last week, the European Commission does not mention any railway lines to be used by Slovenia, but shows the Commission's clear definition and support for funding, in particular in order to enable cross-border projects to be carried out. It thus notes that Community financial support would be allocated in particular to cross-border sections so that Member States could decide on the future of these sections. For if the Community support rate is too low, some projects may not be implemented in the short term or be carried out late. That the Commission remains on the priority projects adopted also confirms the fact that the coordinator of Karel Vinck for the European Rail Traffic Management System project or the ERTMS shortcut, which means "European Railway Transport Management System", also includes corridor D, which runs from Valencia through Lyon to Ljubljana. This clearly re-emphasizes the priority direction of future rail priorities across Slovenian territory. The efforts made by Mrs Loyola de Palacio to accelerate cooperation in the area of the production of the study and the acquisition of financial resources for the Italian-Slovenia connection, which Mrs Loyola de Palacio considered to be positive, are also reflected in this year's signed declaration on the intention to build a railway connection with Decision 884/2004EC Trst-Divača-Koper-Divača, which we signed with the Italian Minister for Transport, Mr Lunardi, at the beginning of the year. In addition, I would point out that this is the first report that does not contain conclusions and will be followed by more reports and a final report, which is expected to take place no later than four years. Even now, a two-year extension is expected. This is mainly due to delays detected on the sixth priority project by the coordinator from a total of 13 sections to twelve. In particular, its report highlights the problem of the tunnel link between Italy and France, which, according to the assessment of Mrs de Palacio, was placed at best in 2019-2020, 2020, since neither the basic documentation is prepared. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport will meet as soon as possible and discuss with Mrs de Palacio's adviser, Mr Barrot, on the report in question and also with Mrs de Palacio, and clarify the uncertainties of the content of the annual report she presented. I am also referring to incorrect references to semi-empty coaches in the direction of Koper. On 16 October this year, I will participate in the Italian Vidma meeting of five Ministers of Italy, France, Hungary, Ukraine and Slovenia and the European Transport Commissioner, who also expressed his wish for a bilateral short meeting with me. On this occasion, I will also present Slovenia's views on the issues in question. I would add this to the fact that, in line with the consideration of the Transport Minister's report on our government, I hope that, at the next meeting, I will also inform the Vice-President of the European Commission or Commissioner for Transport, Mr Barrot, of the preparations for the implementation of projects for the modernisation of the rail network, with an emphasis on the fifth European corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thanks for the answer. Ambassador Pavlich, further question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much, but not just to take a few more minutes. I am satisfied with the transport aspect of the answer, but of course we both know with the Minister that this matter is very delicate from the point of view of foreign policy, which means that it also concerns the government or the foreign ministry; why? The fact is that it has been very intense for some time now, if not a rough and subtly Italian lobbying, to shift the cargo from Slovenia to Italy and, of course, to Slovenia. We all know why; if already one tolar in Luka Koper creates 7 additional tolars, you can imagine how much money for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy would be the fifth corridor in our territory, from logistics, distribution centres and so on. That is why I am interested in how the Minister, with the help of his colleagues, will achieve both at Loyoli de Palacio, who once worked under his command, if I may say so, the current Italian Prime Minister, Mr Prodi, who of course speaks a politically very similar language as Mr Illy in the region. How will we finally get rid of these instigations, these obstacles, because, for God's sake, we are all in the same, in connotations, in the European Union, and no one, neither Mr Illy nor Mr Prodi, and even less Mrs Loyola de Palacio, can change the acquis communautaire, i.e. the European Union's decision, which undoubtedly states that the 6th project is a priority project, including the railway work that takes place after Slovenia. Perhaps a few words about this, but not to shorten the precious time, I suggest that the Minister may write a little more for our record, and of course I also recommend, if it is only possible that the opposition may be a little more involved in this project, which is so typical of national nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for the supplementary question and supplementary answer, Minister Bozič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much for the opportunity for further clarification. I will also be happy to answer some other questions related to specific activities related to the preparation of the fifth corridor modernisation. What I think is very important is that in traffic flows it is about that, they take the shortest route, just like the water that comes, so as soon as possible to their destination, that is to spill into the sea. I hope that in this case, too, and I am sure, because traffic flows, even if they eventually bypass Slovenia with so-called bypass, will eventually be regulated if we offer appropriate transport infrastructure, i.e. in this case rail, with sufficient capacity, sufficient gaps, then surely the shortest route to the east will go through Slovenian territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u122	Minister, thank you for your answer. We are moving on to the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Miran Potrč. The question will be raised by the Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! At least three questions have been kept up to date in recent months regarding the functioning of the police. First time. We assessed the involvement of Slovenian police in the case of the Silva Pluto criminal proceedings. In particular, we discussed whether the Slovenian police, with a greater focus on the activities that they can perform on the basis of the powers in the forecasting process, would have the opportunity to prevent the tragedy in Janča. The actual answers were not uniform. And if we follow the warnings of the profession and partly the State Prosecutor's Office more closely, we should find that the functioning of the law enforcement authorities in this case could also be more effective. Another time. On the basis of a police report, we found that the Slovenian police were less successful in preventing, detecting and investigating crime in 2005 than in the previous year. It has detected 6.3% less crimes, it has worsened by 0.5% in criminal investigations, especially the number of serious economic crime and corruption crimes detected. Also in the framework of general crime, 0.9% less crimes have been investigated. Neither did these facts result in some concrete conclusions. And the third time. A few days ago, we learned about partial results from police polls, which certainly require a comprehensive assessment and clarification, as they individually show that there are serious problems in the police. For the safety of citizens and citizens, the police are such an important institution for public order and peace that every signal of problems in its kind is a legitimate source of public interest and concern. Whether open questions of police action and relations will be addressed in a well-intentioned manner and with a desire to encourage their resolution, it depends primarily on the timely and sincere answers most responsible for the situation in the police, you, Mr Minister, and the Secretary-General. And since you as the most responsible for the situation in the police have not yet reported on this subject, please inform the National Assembly and the Slovenian public of your assessments of the answers to the police survey and present your ideas for resolving the questions that this survey shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't usually want to use phrases like that, but unfortunately I have to. The question I have received here today is fundamentally different and complementary from what was before. It is probably right to tell the Slovenian public that we get oral questions posed two days earlier, or 24 hours earlier, and of course we get completely different questions here. I am in this situation myself today, but I will answer all the three points you have set for me, regardless of the fact that you have only announced the last, third point as a question. As far as the Pluto matter is concerned, I think we've dealt with it very carefully, precisely. I myself have explained several times at various meetings, and I will repeat once again the indisputable fact. The appointed Mr, who has been detained immediately after the killing in Janča and has since been in prison in Slovenia, is still not charged with a criminal offence which would have charged him with the alleged act in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in Aleksinz. Despite all efforts, the Slovenian authorities still have not obtained any documents to file the indictment, despite the efforts of both the prosecution, the police and the Ministry of Justice. I don't think it's right to keep talking about the police doing the wrong thing every time, not the right thing. I then submitted a report expressing my opinion that it might have been a mistake. Now, after so many months, we can find out that the police couldn't put an indictment in this case and still can't. And this is kind of how this thing ends. With regard to the investigation of criminal offences, as the second point not set out in the original question, I must say that it would be very correct to talk about the first time that a police report has been publicly considered. In the past periods this report has never been addressed by the government, but has remained closed to the walls of the Ministry of the Interior. However, if we go to look at these reports backwards, we can find out some facts: the report is completely imprecise for 2004, 2003 and backward, without being able to understand a bunch of the facts that are written in the reports. And another thing is, in 2005, there was a dramatic decline in research. It is true that the survey is 0.5% lower, that is, the fact, but it has stabilized or staggered a drastic decline in some of the percentages of the decline recorded in the transitional years. Of course, reports were systematically made in the past period so that it was very, very difficult to understand from the documents and then no one discussed them or could even reach those percentages. If we stop at the last point, which I have been asked as an oral question which I have received in advance, I must say that the Ministry of the Interior has encountered some of the open issues and problems that have plagued us. One of these problems is compensation claims for the use of coercive funds. As a result, the Ministry of the Interior wanted to find out how it could work more effectively in this area. Together with the Faculty of Economics, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Administration and the Faculty of Police Safety Sciences, we have prepared a targeted research project to act as a pilot project. If appropriate results were obtained from this project, the remaining State Administration could also benefit from the results of this targeted research project for the purpose of reducing compensation claims for different areas. Well, the Ministry of the Interior has detected some of the problems that I mentioned earlier. The results of the survey, which appeared in public, I am as familiar with them as you are. The Ministry has ordered a project, it has put it into work and if I take it as someone who runs this ministry, I am not yet familiar with any results of this survey, I have no results and therefore, of course, very, very difficult to comment on them. The project is expected to be completed at the beginning of next year. Once we have received the report of this project, of course, we will be able to see what the situation is and what we can do in all the areas that we will naturally have with this project. It is, of course, necessary to point out that analysis is necessary [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. My friend Potts, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, first things first for the two of us. My question is exactly as I have announced it in writing, and also the main argument, but it is true that I have cited two facts that have been dealt with with with with by you in recent times, which are related, very important to the functioning of the police. I would like to convince you that I have not asked the questions, nor have I raised the previous arguments no, on the basis of anything other than the facts that we have jointly identified, examined and the records that I have and have at my disposal. I just wanted to mention them because I'm sure it's not good to treat them easily just with the desire that they're tiny problems that we don't have to take seriously. I also admit that I am disappointed with the answer to your last question, as you say, the only specific question why. The Director-General of the Police has made a public statement that he has received all the answers to the questions raised, that he has been informed of them through e-mail and not without written assessments and interconnections, but that he has received the answers and is familiar with them. Please explain to me whether this means that communication between you runs in such a way that you do not have the answers, that you did not want to tell them, that you do not have them, and that in the police department you are not capable of answering without a conclusion, you can only accelerate the whole activity so that you do not create in public the feelings of bad relations, which are certainly you, especially the police and all of us, as if by answers [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Again, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you for the additional question that I could still clarify some of the things I wanted, and because of all three sets I failed in the first time. The Ministry is very interested in finding out if there are any irregularities within the police. That is why we use all the resources we have at our disposal, with all the levers we have in the various Directorates, which allow us to have legal control and directing the work of the police; and we will continue to do so. To this end, this targeted research project has also been set up. We want to find out certain things about how to improve them, and the results of this, if I say so, will also point to some of the relations that have been established within the police. We want to talk about it, and we want to talk about it in public. However, we cannot only talk about one question or two, but we need to talk about the integrity of the project, the project is comprehensive, we need to present a methodology for why certain issues have been raised. From hundreds of questions, drawing two questions out and drawing conclusions from them can sometimes be very difficult and even relatively irresponsible. As far as I know, the Director was aware of the partial results of these, not in the way that they were mediafully presented, but under the presentation of the project in which it is at its stage, some estimates were presented, which ranged from one to five, and not as a percentage. If the situation is as the media has presented it, then drastic action will have to be taken to see what is wrong. But if that is not the case, of course we will act to improve the situation. Personally, I am very keenly interested that the situation in the police is good, because only in this way can we then carry out effectively and effectively all the tasks that both the Ministry and the police have before us. And of course, to carry out the original task and the main task that the police have, that is to ensure the security of citizens. I am not running from any public debate on this, and even when the research and project are completed, we will also present them publicly with all the methodology and with all the open issues that will arise in this regard, and at the same time we will start, if necessary, to take certain measures to improve the situation. With regard to the acceleration of the project itself, I can tell you in principle that it is very difficult a project that takes place year and year and over, almost two years, to practically change and set some other pace, there are many performers, there is a need for an entire analysis service and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] additional money and additional resources, which we cannot do immediately, even the time to the project is very short and are now in the stage of examining all these questionnaires [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by fellow Member Ziherl, two ministers, the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. During our holidays, we have seen a report in newspapers on the flooding of less quality products from Eastern European countries, novelties in the European Union, which bear Western European codes of origin. Customers are deceived because they buy only packaging and a repetitive name. In particular, an example of a powder washed in the Czech Republic contains 15% to 30% of phosphates and only 10% of the active substance. The laundry powder of the German parent company has up to three times more active substances and is phosphate-free. The analysis was carried out at the University of Zagreb and was also collected by our media. It is said that our washing powder manufacturer also uses a cheaper Eastern European recipe. The Consumer Protection Authority did not respond because it is said that it does not have money for expensive analyses, although it could use the results of a Zagreb laboratory which has the status of a laboratory with good practice. Similar findings were also made for hazelnuts buttered by the Italian producer, which places on the market a still impoverished product from Poland. In addition to the two mentioned above, cosmetic preparations, margarines and certain other products of widespread consumption were mentioned. It was not possible to understand the origin of the goods on the products, which could be good information for the consumer. However, the origin of the goods is an important information for customs, so it could also be available to inform interested consumers or customers. On the basis of the above, I am asking questions. Will any measures be taken with regard to washing powders containing unfavourable phosphates for water? How will we protect consumers not only from buying names and packaging but also from quality content? How will the work of the Consumer Protection Office be improved to prevent harmful effects on the environment and ensure the right of consumers to quality choice of goods? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for asking. Minister Vizjak will be the first to answer and then Minister Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. In the case referred to, it is a matter of market surveillance in the free movement of goods and services. There are two more specific questions. The first is whether the products appearing on shelves meet the requirements of the applicable rules and the second is whether they are properly labelled. Both aspects of the products mentioned in your question are regulated in individual rules, which are mainly a summary of directives. The composition and labelling of detergents is governed by European Regulation 648/2004 EC, also implemented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in a part of the legislation which is not regulated by Community law, a Member State shall introduce its provisions. With regard to the use of phosphates and their environmental impacts, a comprehensive risk assessment carried out by the European Commission under the European Regulation governing the transport of detergents is currently under way in the European Community. According to the results of this assessment, the use of phosphates will also be regulated by common European legislation. Everything I have said does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Economy, but it is the protection of consumer interests through adequate consumer information; however, I can answer you that this Ministry of Economy provides this through the Consumer Protection Office. In 2003, the Government launched a call for the public information service. In fact, we have significantly increased the resources to the Consumer Protection Office, in particular for the provision of a public service of comparative assessments of goods and services. To this end, a special Vip magazine is also published and the results of comparative commodity assessments are also published in the Vip magazine. A test of universal washing powder was published in January, and the quality criteria included an assessment of environmental protection. In addition, we have a whole bunch of co-financing, various publications, so, as far as this is concerned, of course, consumer information through these measures. And then there's Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much, thank you, colleague mag. A visionary who left me some more time. He mentioned a regulation in force in the Republic of Slovenia. As a matter of interest, the competent authority for the implementation of this is the Ministry responsible for chemicals, and this is true health. Nevertheless, colleague Visjak has already replied something. We have another regulation. This is a regulation that speaks of minimum conditions to be met by detergents for placing on the market in the European Union; the European Union has set up an EU Ecolabel system to raise consumers' awareness of more environmentally friendly products. Slovenia has taken this system into our legal order automatically from the day we entered the European Union, and since detergents have a great impact on the environment, we have also set criteria for the award of this sign for several types of detergents. To date, it is a voluntary system, the Environment Agency has awarded two such signs to two paper producers. To date, none of the Slovenian detergent manufacturers have decided on this route, but we urge them to do so. Now some environmental information on the personality of detergents and phosphates in Slovenia. As part of the monitoring of water quality, we monitor the personality of detergents in rivers, and we do not monitor this parameter in groundwater because, thank God, it is not problematic. The content of detergents is increased in Ščavnica, Lendava, Logasčica, Paki and in Koreno, Nova Gorica. These are the rivers that are heavily burdened with unginned municipal waste water. This is also confirmed by other parameters if I mention the chemical need for oxygen or the biochemical need for oxygen or the personality of ammonia and nitrite. There is no direct correlation between detergents and orthophosphate, as phosphates also contaminate water from other sources if I mention pharmaceuticals or food industries or pig farms as well as breweries. And one of the concrete preventive forms that I can point out here is that, in part, this problem will be solved by the fact that we will successfully build cleaning plants in the next financial perspective, right next to the rivers that I mentioned earlier; in particular, we will mention the cleaning plant in Novi Gorica, because this city does not yet exist. And also information on phosphate content in some other rivers. It's also elevated, Savi. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] by Hrastnik, Kamniška Bistrica, Beer, Sotli and Riži. [[...]] The increased phosphate content, however, is of concern mainly in the lower part of the Sava, because the building of the accumulations can be expected to cause problems here, the increased personality of phosphorous compounds is particularly at low inflows and high temperatures in the summer months, which could cause the development of algae, this would be shown by the blooming of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Comrade Ziherl, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for the comprehensive answers of both ministers, although perhaps as a consumer I would still like to see in a very visible and clearly written on that famous Italian hazelnut cream that was made in Poland, because then I would buy it with a little more doubt and maybe start looking for the original. I'm not going to abuse the rules of procedure, either. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And I thank both ministers for their answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Well, during this time, we were joined by visitors and visitors, whom I warmly welcome, in the Slovenian Parliament. We are dealing with the questions that have traditionally been asked by Members of Parliament and Members once a month by members of the government. My colleague, Milan Petek, will ask the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, a while ago, remember, I was wondering when the financing of the puppet theater in Maribor would come. At that time, you agreed that the European Union's Presidency is a priority and that you are not interested in puppetry at that time. Later in the supplementary reply, you slightly corrected this response and said that you would try to win along with the City of European Resources, i.e. through the European Union Fund. However, after the event that I myself experienced at the Maribor City Council meeting, I doubt that you were honest at the time or that you were deceiving me not to use the word - you may have lied. What led me to this? So, Mr. Councilor of the Municipality of Maribor, Dr. Križman, said at the 40th meeting of the City Council of Maribor, citing his statement: "So all these changes that are taking place are the same as the puppet theatre, I will announce here today, the Minister has made it clear to me, to Mr. Sovič we will not give money for the puppet theatre as long as Mr. Sovič is mayor." Later on, he quotes something else, and I continue at the puppet shop: "At the puppet shop, I am extremely critical, very critical and because this is the intentional move of this government, especially the SDS, against, not so much against Maribor, but against Mayor Sovič, and I must tell you this openly today and I will also publish it publicly; such things are to be said, 'but this will be a scandal for our future mayor',' this is a scandal, but let us leave these matters to the decision itself. It's a quote from Dr. Crossman. Of course, from these words, Mr Minister, it seems to me that you, in particular, have been politicising such a noble thing as financing a puppet theatre with your answers and your conduct. It seems to me that you have shown that you do not care about the development of Maribor, that you do not care about the attitude towards the children and parents waiting for this theatre, and that you have divided Maribor into ours, those who are actually in a position today to have, on condition, power in Maribor; and others, those who are supposed to come to power in Maribor. That is why, Mr Minister, I ask you what your promise and those of yours has been assured and how you comment on these words by Dr. Križman, do you think that he did not speak the truth, or is this statement actually the basis for his claim? I hope you'll be honest with me in this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Simoniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The question addressed to me is this: "I ask you how are efforts being made to obtain additional funding for the construction of the Maribor puppet theatre or funds from European funds, by which the Ministry will close the financial construction of the project, which is also a condition for co-financing investments under the Cultural Tolar Law?" This is a question which the Member has officially addressed. Now that I have a little answer to what he said before, which I do not even have to answer, but I will, because the accusations and the words were therefore utterly inappropriate. You said that you were supposed to deceive or even lie, it was a matter of political culture, that we would not give Sovic because he was with other options and that it was a scandal and that I couldn't understand noble things and that I didn't care about the children in Maribor. This, of course, is inappropriate speech and Mr Krizman should prove it if he can. Another time. Here's what I'd like to say to you about that. The founder and owner of Maribor Puppet Theatre is the municipality of Maribor, which is responsible for providing space for its operation. To close the financial structure, to build a new puppet theatre, where cultural tolar funds are only part of the necessary resources, the congregation must provide and the question must, of course, be addressed to the congregation. The municipal public cultural infrastructure is included in the financing of regional development programmes, which are one of the priorities of funding under the Regional Structural Fund, and we therefore believe that the project to renovate the puppet theatre will be involved in the preparation of the Regional Development Programme of the Podrava, which will be largely co-financed by the European Union Regional Structural Fund. The congregation must take care of this too. In addition, I would also like to say that to the Maribor Mačehovski Congregation, it seems to me that this is a very inappropriate conclusion, because in Maribor so far there has been virtually a lot of work done and only the puppet theatre Maribor, which remains unrealized, remains of the cultural tolar. All other things have been realized. In addition, I would like to say that in the half century Ljubljana received less investment and investment in those cultural infrastructure facilities that were already such as the Natural History Museum, SNG Drama and Opera and the Modern Gallery Ballet, in short, the city of Ljubljana was completely neglected. The other thing is that the municipality of Maribor was forcing the construction of the puppet theatre at the moment, although this obligation was from 1998 to 2003, when it was in the programme, but you knew this, but you included it in the programme, although it was a priority that all things be realized from the first tranche, you pushed instead of the puppet theatre of course the Maribor castle and the reconstruction of the Maribor castle, for the needs of the provincial museum, for which the ministry of course showed the will. In addition, I would say that in the last year, the Minister's will and desire was also to restore the SNG Opera in Maribor, where we prevented the negligence that existed for 10 years, that was that it was poor acoustics.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. My friend Friday wants a full answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u142	Minister, of course I don't have time to argue with you about everything you've said. Of course, I asked you about the puppet theatre, for which you cannot deny that it is placed in a cultural tolar, so in a law that you as a minister cannot change and you are obliged to realize this obligation from a cultural tolar, no matter what you think, what Maribor got, what Ljubljana did not get. It's not about this antagonism between two cities. It is your obligation as Minister to provide funds for the planned investment. In fact, you've confirmed my question or the expected answer. You are therefore not in favour of this project, as I understand it, you do not guarantee that the country will co-finance this project under the Cultural Tolar law, you place it in regional development programmes, to which it also is indisputable, but of course it has this position only when the regional development programme is adopted. As far as Dr. Crossman is concerned. Dr. Križman is a prominent city of Maribor, former university rector, former mayor of Maribor, now a city councillor, now a member of the state council. The statements made by such an eminent person should at least concern you. You asked him, or you doubt his claims. That's what we've heard. And for the sake of that, I was expecting you to make sure you didn't make that statement. If you can't provide me with this, I think it's just something similar or something that's been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. That you asked me about the puppet theater, it's true. In your introduction, you've just suggested a whole series of other things that don't apply to puppet theater. You were talking about Mayor Sovic, about deception, lying and things like that. If he's a respected citizen, I don't doubt that he's a respected citizen, I just think he's a single minister, I find it hard to say now that he would praise himself, but I think you feel as much respect as I do for you. I hope we are respected citizens and citizens. And maybe I've been at the university just as many years as he has. We are obliged to realize by cultural tolar. Surely, the bond is a cultural tolar. You passed the law in Parliament in 1998 and 2002 or 2003. That is not the problem, the problem is that everything has not yet been realized from the first cultural tolar. Now I'm asking you, there's never been enough money for a cultural tolar voted or given. The whole range of projects in the first tranche to realize the cultural toll and the second tranche is still in the process and, of course, certain things need to be decided how and what and should be decided on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Kumer, who is supposed to ask a question to the absent Minister of Finance. Are you going to do it anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to ask you a question because the minister will have a month to prepare for the answer, so there won't be a problem. Indeed, measures to rationalise the consumption of public tax money, as announced by the government last year, are already visible. But some effects are quite contrary to what she predicted. Let me remind you what one of the ministers said last year. [[Quote]] "By saving, we mean it. That is why we are lowering our salaries for officials to show a responsible attitude towards the budget and the taxpayer's money. Therefore, the functions we perform work for the public benefit and not for our own personal benefit." [[End of quote.]] Well, let's stop here for a moment, because it's more than obvious that some of the elected officials who have demonstrated their political compatibility with government policy have over the past year made the scrotum very rich. With not so low public service salaries and a supplement for engagement [[read: Political loyalty]] every month, you have a few thousand more euros in cashew for membership in the supervisory boards of companies at the expense of the function you perform in the state administration. It is therefore illustrative evidence that the current official nomenclature of functions is primarily for personal and not public benefit, as provided by Minister Virant last year. Moreover, state supervisors are also appointed through the KAD and the SOD, where a few hundred well-paid supervisory functions are reserved for government coalition customer appliances. This directly reinforces and ensures the impact of the current policy on the economy. Therefore, the current executive authority has decided to maintain and nurture clienteleism at a higher level or at a higher level than that of the previous period. It is increasingly evident that clienteleism is on the country's payroll, which means that we are also materially supporting it instead of eliminating it. I therefore ask Minister Bajuk: How many and what officials, secretaries of state and senior government officials appointed by the Government Human Resources Commission as representatives of state capital to the supervisory boards of companies, banks and insurance companies receive more than a thousand euros per month from the membership of these supervisory boards at the regular monthly salary and the performance award for the function they perform? What will the government do to achieve some of the European standards that are in force in this area as well? Last but not least: What does such a situation mean by the breakdown of relations between senior government officials themselves and officials in relation to the salary system introduced by Minister Virant?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Saiovic will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns public passenger transport. I think we have quite a few problems with him in Slovenia, and especially with him are the affected categories, which other modes of transport are difficult to afford. These are mainly students, students, and older people. The fact is that this problem is getting worse in Slovenia. This negative trend is conditioned by a higher number of cars, by changing the value system and by the absence of an appropriate transport policy. It also causes a number of social, environmental and parking problems. The recently adopted Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the adoption of a specific law defining the establishment of a harmonised timetable, a single tariff system and a single information system for all carriers of public transport services. The aim of this is to finally introduce a single ticket, thereby simplifying the use of public transport from the point of view of buying a ticket with adequate funding, as well as affordable public passenger transport services for all people in Slovenia. I therefore ask you on this issue as Minister: How does the Ministry of Transport intend to stimulate the use of public transport by road and how does this comply with a resolution on transport policy, which ultimately aims at introducing a single ticket? If I say that the laxity of this transport policy is, does this policy continue to specify any specific projects and the deadlines in which these planned projects would be implemented? Is it possible that you are thinking, this is not the question of proposing a special public passenger transport law that will fully address the present problem? And perhaps a step further in the positive direction of solving this problem. Is there still a current special agency for public passenger transport that could combine a number of sources of funding in one place? The aim should be to ensure that the most vulnerable parts in need of passenger transport are children, students, students and older persons, to ensure that they are as timely, as easy as possible and as valuable passenger traffic as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for asking. Prior to the beginning of this transport year, the Ministry of Transport has made tremendous efforts to harmonise bus and rail timetables, which means better coordination of public transport services and shorter travel times for passengers. We have also begun to work more intensively with local communities to ensure a better link between line bus transport and urban transport and thus offer passengers a better bus connection. In parallel with the preparation of the Road Transport Act, which will be a direct legal basis for the introduction of a single ticket, we have started in the Ministry with the preparation of the project an integrated electronic single ticket system and a public passenger information system in Slovenia, which aims to create the necessary conditions for carrying out the tasks of ensuring sustainable mobility. Under this project, we want to establish a single tariff system, a single ticket, a uniform way of informing passengers and a uniform way of managing the public passenger transport system in Slovenia. The vision is aimed at introducing a comprehensive public passenger transport system based on the effective connectivity of individual subsystems. A project that is extremely complex and difficult to compare with the introduction of an electronic toll system will be launched in 2007 and will be completed in 2010. Of course, we will also work through short-term measures to ensure better accessibility to public passenger transport. These measures include further coordination of traineeship systems, the introduction of combined tickets between bus and rail carriers, better information to passengers on public passenger transport services and its increased attractiveness. I would also like to give this answer that we do not intend to set up a new agency, which means creating a new bureaucrat apparatus, but within the Ministry of Transport we have organised a Directorate of Transport, which runs all these activities related to the drafting of legislation and also all specific activities, and some of them are managed by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Comrade Saiovice, supplemental response.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary for your exhausted and quick answer. I hope our viewers understand him and the viewers. However, in order to make this matter even more plastic and in the sense of reaching a solution, let me tell you an example from Gorenjska, where students have lost their bus fare, because unfortunately public passenger transport operators are not looking at these high-lying political objectives after the adoption of the resolution. I can mention the last case when, with this year's September 1st, Integrated Tržič and Alpetour Kranj cancelled a joint bus ticket, which has so far acted exemplaryly for more than 5 years. However, the most affected students and students who have to do so again are said to be in the cold, wind and rain waiting for the next bus to arrive for their village, despite the fact that the bus of another company and some other color took them right under their noses and so for at least half an hour put off their hard-to-see and deserved lunch. Therefore, I ask you: What can the Ministry of Transport do if the joint ticket of Integal Tržič and Alpetur Kranj is cancelled on the lines between Tržič, Kranje and Ljubljana, so that students and students will receive the same services as they have been in the last five years? Do you have any initiatives, ideas and concrete solutions, what can we do to address this problem in the local communities concerned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Minister Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much for the additional question. First, I would like to answer the last part of the question. Of course, we are trying to actually create synergies between carriers and, above all, in combination with rail transport, when we are talking about bus traffic. We have and have had several discussions on this subject, we have a special working group, an interdepartmental group dealing with these issues and this area, these problems. Further, we want to regulate this area through an appropriate legal basis. What can be done quickly, however, is that we are taking initiatives through the directorate and we are influencing the part where contracts are made to carry out this service, where there are so-called subsidies signed by Dr. Mark Pavliha at the time, as stimulation, that these transports are also carried out. I believe that it is difficult for passengers, students, students to stand on the cold, that there are sometimes poor conditions that are not direct connections, but I think that further through what I have already received in the first part of the question I have also answered, through these measures, it is possible to improve this situation. Of course, this situation will certainly not be ideal, but it is true that this is a project that is needed over a long period of time with patience and, above all, in synergy with carriers and also those that are bound by the contract to the country, in one way or another, to coordinate and lead to the fact that passengers will actually have the right lines, that they will also have the dates most appropriate to them and that they will continue to invest as much in public passenger transport as possible, both rail and bus. We are preparing a series of activities in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It is the turn of colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš to ask two ministers, namely the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. On a recent visit by the government in the central Slovenian region, Prime Minister Janez Janša promisingly announced the second round of government visits to Slovenia in the coming year, where we will, at least so be able to understand from his words, be able to see and evaluate the realization of the things the government has been alerted to in the first round of its visits throughout Slovenia. In particular, in Ljubljana, the issue of housing was also raised. The fact is that this, I will say, is a pressing problem not only attributable to the responsibilities of local communities or city authorities, but primarily to the government which has already committed itself in the coalition contract, and allow me to quote: "The coalition will lead a pronatally oriented family policy by improving the possibility of harmonising professional and family life and families with a favourable tax and housing policy." - end of quote. Of all this is very small after two years, if anything, realized. The government in the coalition contract continues to promise a comprehensive inter-resort coordinated family policy where it will explore the possibilities, in particular, for measures that provide conditions for the creation and development of young families, employment, housing and, lastly, for the implementation of the project, the first apartment intended for young couples whose aim is to provide affordable first apartment for young couples or young families. I have only mentioned a few measures that are only related to housing policy. In view of the Government's commitment to a comprehensive solution to positive housing policy, I have already mentioned inter-departmental coordination, in fact, my question is intended for both competent ministers. I ask specifically: What has the government done in the area of housing in two years? Allow me just one case. The young family will pay about 30 million Slovenian tolls to solve the housing problem, whether it is to buy an apartment in Ljubljana or a house somewhere outside Ljubljana. Few people can make that amount. This is why usually young families hire a loan, 30 million for a period of 30 years. During this period, the same family overpaid a loan at the price of another apartment, almost another apartment. I ask or am convinced that this certainly is not a reflection of positive, youth-friendly, housing policy. In particular, I ask both ministers: How do both competent ministers or government, as part of a government strategy, intend to give young people easier access to housing?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. First of all, I invite you to the word "magic." A trifle, then Mr. Squirrel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much for asking. The government is aware of the issues of greater fertility and has therefore already developed several measures in these areas, including housing. And yet, what was established? With regard to the coordination of work and family life, the government has proposed within the European Union a proposal to fit into the Working Time Directive, which is also supported by the European Member States. This is also my concrete proposal at European level. Second. She abolished the tax on a large family allowance, which was also accepted in the National Assembly. Recognition of full-time employment for parents with four or more children. This was also accepted in the National Assembly - part-time work for two children under 6 years of age, also adopted in the National Assembly. For self-employed persons and farmers the same condition for the enforcement of these measures. The government has adopted and was also adopted in the National Assembly, as well as the recognition of working time for children with disabilities. With regard to employment, it is also considered that it would be easier to decide for the child, subsidies for those who replace the mother on maternity leave and subsidies for young people who for the first time enter into a employment relationship up to the age of 28. It's part of the action. We are preparing a wider part of the measures in the strategy for greater fertility, including health, schooling and housing. For the residential area in Slovenia, because the real estate market is small and small, this affects high prices. It is therefore necessary to relax this substantially, which can help to lower the price of real estate throughout Slovenia. The second question concerns what we can do for individual families. It is necessary to release the conditions for renting an apartment, a shorter notice period and to ensure that the available housing fund is used more efficiently. The Housing Fund covers practically the needs in Slovenia, only the capacities are unoccupied. Second, the national housing savings scheme. A colleague will talk more about this, Mr Podobnik, about the transformation of this national housing savings scheme into an important family policy instrument. Young families would have the possibility of a very cheap rental apartment for a certain period of time, for the first period, and then enter the market. Then there is the promotion of applications for soundness, because we find that the starting price and the problem of walliness affects high housing prices and also the possibility of construction, or the greater possibility of obtaining favourable housing loans. Now I would like to leave the floor to my colleague, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you, Minister Petty Officer. I give my word to Minister Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I will respond briefly over three segments, from the point of view of the functioning of the Housing Fund, from the point of view of the environment and the space, this is the area I manage and from the point of view of active land policy. The current public housing fund, as part of its calls for proposals, favouring young people or young families, has 877 apartments for sale on the market that will go this way. Also, the fund has 2,000 additional dwellings in preparation, including in the area of market and non-profit construction, where it will also hope to obtain legal building permits and start construction as soon as possible. The other area is the Ministry's area of operation. As already mentioned by Comrade Drobnic, we have renewed and upgraded this year the applicable law on the national housing savings scheme and added subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. Any young family who for the first time solves their housing issue by buying an apartment on the market or by building their own apartment house will be entitled to a non-refundable subsidy. The law also determines when and who a young family is with one or more children. This call is already in the budget or in preparation and will be implemented for the first time this year. And a third area, active land policy. It's about the price of flats. The prices of dwellings in Slovenia are, we know, too high, so we are very intensively continuing to transfer land to state and public property to the housing fund. In the first round, we managed three parcels in Ljubljana, Trnovské premestě, Bizovic, Dobranje, and we also started with an agreement of the promised municipalities, 30 municipalities in the Ljubljana region, to find them together or also through a national location plan to use these areas to build apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you. Complementary question from Ambassador Žgajner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič, I wanted to highlight in this part only the housing problem, because it was also exposed on your visit to the central Slovenian region or specifically in Ljubljana. You mentioned nice housing loans. I would like you to elaborate on this issue where these favourable housing loans are available to young families. You have mentioned, not least, the promotion of fertility, which is also the goal of your government, but allow me to mention another concrete case that stems from the practice of law, which is completely inanimate. While the Law on Administrative Fees provides that young families are entitled to payment of certain fees. It's about building taxes. For young families, a family with at least one child in which no parent is more than 30 years of age or 35 years of age is considered, provided that no child is yet required to attend school. Thus, a family with three children, with a mother 27 years of age, a father 31 and one of these three children is already schooled, there is no possibility under this law to be able to pay the tax, although it goes, and I will say, logically, after years, for a young family that was especially young at the birth of the first child and today has three children. Such nonlife laws do not create an atmosphere that is very favourable to young families with multiple children. And here I have black on white that the Minister of Environment and Space with this kind of problem has already met. The only thing to be understood from the Ministry's response is, in fact, simply quoting the existing law. It didn't go any further than that. Last but not least, I am taking the initiative in this question, but there will be a change that will not only contribute more and allow young families with more children to have easier access to housing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u164	Together with the Ministry of Finance, we will come up with a proposal to provide for such a long-term loan scheme in Slovenia, at least 20 years in order to make this annuity as small as possible and so that we can afford an apartment, especially under conditions where there are no higher interest rates. That's one. The second question is about taxis. This is, of course, the law that was passed at some point, and I'm not going to cite it. Now we are preparing a strategy for greater fertility and reviewing all these documents, those that speak contrary, and looking for measures that will increase this. Of course, I cannot agree with those who say that the abolition of certain taxes in Slovenia may make it possible for more children. In the last 15 years, a number of measures have been taken in Slovenia for the benefit of the family, for the benefit of parents, for the benefit of children, but our birth rate has dropped tremendously. This means that it is necessary to act differently in this area, beyond this pattern that has now emerged. And that is what we are going to do, to draw up a strategy that will favour families that will encourage, motivate and encourage and encourage a new life in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Also Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much. In part, I'd like to add or supplement a colleague of mags. It's a little bit of credit. We know that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Finance Ministry, recently passed a new law on mortgage banking. She hasn't had this Slovenia yet. It is known that the experience of the Republic of Austria here has been well studied that the Law on Mortgage Bond or Mortgage Banking allows young people to take credit for a longer period soon after completion of the study, even up to 30 years. And, of course, with the help of the state, in Austria it is a region or a province, then it is easier at this best sensitive stage, when planning a family, it educates itself, builds a career, even repays these loans. That's one question. The second is the question of a young family. I must say, maybe when we went into a change in the national housing savings scheme, one detail escaped us when we determined what a young family was. We have said that this is every family with one or more children, with at least one child not yet required by school, and we have given a social income condition. That's okay. What about when two people don't have children? That's when we got away with it. No one has proposed in the debate, but we will try to address this weakness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The next is Comrade Testen, who will ask the question if he will be absent from the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the President, Members and Members of Parliament, ministers. I'm asking the question to Minister Andre Bajuk. I am confident that at the next meeting, the issue I will highlight will still be topical and I look forward to the next oral response. Mr Minister, the 2007 budget balance and the 2008 budget are being prepared. In direct relation to the documents mentioned above, the tax reform which the government has sent to the National Assembly will have a significant impact on the reduction of budgetary revenues. The gradual abolition of the tax on paid wages will also affect the reduction of revenue. A few days ago, we were also able to monitor in public the controversy about the level of the budget deficit, which some estimates suggest could reach 110 billion tolars. I wonder: How will the government compensate for the loss of budgetary revenue resulting from the abolition of the tax on paid salaries, lower income and also from the reduction of certain other taxes? There is much to be done in public with the assessment that tax reform will require an increase in VAT already in 2007. I'm interested in your assessment. I am also interested in your position on the projected budget deficit of 110 billion, which was highlighted by the UMAR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The next is colleague Zalokar Orazem, who will ask the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Last year, this very week we celebrate the anniversary, the ruling coalition, Mr Minister, has assumed full authority and responsibility in addition to other media, for national television by implementing the law on RTV. You've put your men in the lead. The Programme Council is headed by a man who acts as the head of the Ljubljana Assembly and publicly supports the candidate of the Springian coalition parties for the mayor of Ljubljana and has already surpassed the former President of the RTV Council with his political action. We had a referendum before the law was passed. In your campaign to adopt the law, you have promised people, among other things, several times a reduced membership fee and, above all, a better programme. And what do we have today? The subscription is still the same, and as regards the programme, viewers and viewers can convince themselves that it has not improved or remained the same as the subscription, but has become significantly worse with numerous repetitions, with reflections where they have always been terminated with an interest in the meetings of government and opposition representatives, and with censored and self-censored information of increasingly frightened journalists and journalists who are afraid to write critically. Among the most disappointed viewers are sports fans, especially football. Thus, we have been repeatedly deprived of some of the interesting direct transmissions of sports events due to editorial policy, which has given priority to the transfer of religious rituals. This fall, however, we were even more embarrassed when we learned that the nationalist would no longer follow the football league's football tournament or the weekly review of the event. The Champions League is the highest quality club football competition in Europe and because we have become part of Europe, it is totally unimaginable that this is happening past us. This also harms television’s popularity of sports, especially its stepmother’s attitude to football. All of this moved to First TV, making it impossible to watch the games at all, as the signal did not reach them. Therefore, the Minister asks you: What will you do to ensure that sports and football fans are able to re-watch the Champions League games on national television? Who do you think is responsible that a national develops such a stepmother's attitude towards certain sports industries since last year, due to the ignorance of national television, Slovenian football clubs were forced to prepare and finance the production of the first football league review? [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u171	I'm afraid time's up. Technology is unmerciful. Please, Dr. Simoniti, answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know, the question is very difficult, very difficult, it's incredible. So the question, Madam Member, was as follows: "Before the adoption of the law on RTV Slovenia, you promised, among other things, to improve the situation and programme of RTV Slovenia. How do you assess the enforcement of the law and the functioning of RTV Slovenia?" Now the lady says that the programme is still the same, that it is significantly worse, that it is censored, not censored, and that everyone is scared and all such funny things that we have set everything up. Lady, then, read the law what it says. This Parliament has adopted the law. The referendum was confirmed by a majority of votes, and this is probably a minor insult to citizens and citizens who adopted it at the referendum with the majority and endorsed this law. You're embarrassing me, but I'll try to answer you anyway. The law was adopted on 12 November 2005. The procedure for establishing the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and electing the authorities, which is all within the competence of RTV and no one else. So this process has been going on for so many months. The new leadership is four months in a saddle to put it that way, so only four months is the Director-General and the other directors. A statute is being drawn up to give an organisational scheme. Organisational schemes usually work the way they have been for all the years, in the autumn, and I believe when the organisational scheme is put in place, pardon when the organigram in the statute is set up and organisational schemes are set up, of course, will be a good programme, which is probably also improved. Your assessment that the program is even worse, that censorship is, etc. Listen, you're a politician here, that's your political position. Nothing else. This is not based on any professional arguments. After all, we have seen in the RTV law how much they know about European legislation and how those houses are regulated in Europe, so no one knew much about it. Finally, we have made one good expert, we have publicly presented it, it is also published on the Internet, and we have also had a press conference on what this media structure is, above all, for printed media. But I have to say about television that it's hard to say anything, because it's all just in the context of the RTV public service. I hope that we agree that this is a public institution and it has its own programming board and that it will probably be best if you turn to them in relation to football. The Ministry of Culture certainly does not intend to interfere with the programming forms of the public service RTV. I would say, however, what is available is that the programme is better in the sense that, according to Ebuja, [[?]] Some of the most popular shows in Europe, that beautiful afternoon, were, for example, the most popular public television broadcast in Europe, Target, among the most viewed news broadcasts in Europe on public television. The financial business of the first half of the year is positive, there are 269 million profits, the number of employees has not decreased much, but they have reduced by a few people. I think so as an observer and as one who can become acquainted with the Minister of Culture with the information we receive and report that RTV works very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Fellow Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I hope that Slovenian viewers and viewers of national television are laughing just as much as you were a few minutes ago to your response. Because, Minister, you have submitted to this House the law on RTV and your coalition, I hope that you are still part of this coalition, this law has been passed. Here you bear full responsibility, also because, at the time of the adoption of the law and the referendum, we have been repeatedly warned by many European institutions that this law means taking over national television. And this takeover has been carried out and new directors have been appointed, new editors have been put in place in this sense, a new programme council has been set up and we see a number of eminent representatives, in most of the representatives of the ruling coalition. Therefore, this coalition will also be responsible for the quality of the programme and will not have to laugh, but the Slovenian public will have to answer. I have asked that there may have been some misunderstanding about the issue, a clear issue particularly about the Champions League, because what happened here is inconceivable. We force Slovenian viewers to watch Croatian TV or First TV, which does not cover half of the Slovenian space. And now to say that all citizens are guilty because this law has been passed by Parliament, and because they voted in the referendum as they are, it is far-reaching. You listed broadcasts that were already in the programming scheme and are not part of the programming schemes of this new television authority. But the fact that the Champions League has left the program is part of this power, which is four months on television and which also bears that responsibility to the full. Looks like we're out of money. With the same subscription, we see a much worse program. And if you don't agree, the public will agree with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. This was, however, more of a comment than a request to complete the reply in accordance with Article 246. Nevertheless, I give the floor to the Minister if he has considered an additional question from this comment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. So, "many European institutions have made comments". Please describe to me which and what were those institutions that informed them and what was reported on the portal of the European Council. They also withdrew because it was wrong. I won't use inappropriate words, because as an honorable citizen, someone else, I think I'm an honorable man. I don't know what important European institutions have been doing this, but those who have been, have been misled and have also withdrawn everything that was. The new editors, Madam Member, have not been set up; I do not know which editors have been set up. The programming world is an autonomous body that, of course, works. However, I am very glad that you are watching a lot of public television and that you are watching, but of course I absolutely disagree with you, and I repeat once again that this is just your political position, what a good or bad program is. [[Ad in the background.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd still be in charge of the meeting. Please! Please calm down in the hall, if you don't, I'll stop the session. A colleague of Bevk will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! On the crosses and problems of transport infrastructure, and in particular on the modernisation of the state road network, I have asked a number of questions, initiatives and proposals in my ten-year parliamentary work. I have implemented several road amendments in the state budget, in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and in the resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The majority of these proposals concerned the modernisation of the Celtics, road links from Bovec via Kobarid and Tolmin, Idria and Kalc to the Logatco motorway. In the last period, I have extended these questions to the issue of the so-called fourth development axis, which in addition to the previous section includes the secession from Želen through Cerkno and along the Poljanska valley to Škofje Loka and the highway network. The fourth development axis took its place in the previously mentioned spatial development strategy and recently also in the state transport resolution. However, I miss the fourth development axis in recent weeks of such a popular resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. I ask you, Your Honor, Minister Mag. Christmas: On what document has a set of projects been created to modernise the priority network of state roads in the framework of the draft resolution mentioned above? That is why I am interested in this; when will you send to the National Assembly a proposal for a national programme to modernise the state road network, which I believe should be the basis for the creation of a set of projects in the resolution. Of course, you have promised the national programme in your performances, as well as the answers to my questions on several occasions. I also ask: What projects are included under the fourth development axis in resolution 2007, 2023? How many are evaluated by section? The resolution does not contain individual sections of state roads, but it shows from the map published in this document that a very low-cost set of projects on the Jelen-Spodnja Idrija, Idrija-Logatec. Mr. Minister, I thank you in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I give my word to Minister Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for asking. In accordance with our Ministry's work programme, we prepared a draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia for the next 20 years, from 2005 to 2025. The programme covered an intensive investment period between 2005 and 2016, in which the state road network would be fully restored, updated and upgraded to an appropriate quality level and covering all the necessary recorded actions on the main and regional roads network. However, since roads or road infrastructure are only one of the areas within the competence of our ministry, by the end of 2005 we have also prepared a proposal for a coordinated transport development plan and a transport infrastructure reflecting a comprehensive review of the necessary investments in all areas of transport and transport infrastructure. This document was sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development in financial coordination with the development projects of other sources. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to systematically address all important development projects for Slovenia or to first draw up a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and then on the basis of the relevant national programmes for each area. In the area of transport, two documents were mentioned, the draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal for a coordinated transport and transport infrastructure development plan were the basis for the preparation of a set of priority projects under the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023. As has already been said, all the necessary measures have been included in the draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia, by then the necessary measures have been recorded on the whole, some 6,000 kilometres long, the network of state roads. The initiatives of the municipalities and your initiatives, honourable Members and Members, also included measures on the so-called fourth development axis linking Northern Primorska with Central Slovenia. The road links between Robič on the border with the Republic of Italy and run through Kobarid, Tolmina, Cerkne, Gorenje village and Škofje Loka do Jeprce include various measures, from the smallest to the most demanding, in the total estimated value of about 30 billion tolars. Among the most important places tolmin-Gorenja Vas and Škofja Loka and the new construction area between Cerknje and Gorenje village. The largest investments are foreseen in the Želen-Jeprca connection, about 20 billion tolars, and the investment in the Robbe-Zelin connection is estimated at about 10 billion tolars. The draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads also deals equally with the road link Želan-Idrija-Logatec, which is allocated over 10 billion tolls. In view of the state of the road on this axis and given the importance of this link, both in terms of the internal cohesion of the regions and also in terms of cross-border importance, two of the three projects mentioned above are also included in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, i.e. one of the operational parts of the national strategic reference framework under which Slovenia is running for European cohesion policy funds. The reasons for including the modernisation of road links from Robič to Želen and from Želen to Jeprce in the operational programme are also mentioned in the question put by Mr Bevk at the 15th extraordinary meeting of 27.3. this year. Members and Members of Parliament, I should like to conclude once again and point out that the set of projects to modernise the priority network of state roads is based on the draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia and its professional foundations, in which all measures are now needed for almost 6,000 kilometres of the long state road network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. My friend Bevk wants a full response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr Bozič very much for the comprehensive answer to my question, but I could say that there is actually more attention given to the part of the link that goes through the Polish Valley than to the part of the link that goes through the Idrijac Valley and further towards Logatco. I think that this project should be balanced, so I propose and also ask if it could also obtain specific information on the set of projects included in the resolution. In addition, I wonder: How will you plan to provide these funds? I think that out of 2.7 billion euros for this project to modernise the priority sections of the state road network, only 255 million are provided from European Union resources, but everything else is foreseen to be financed from the state budget, so I am wondering: How do you plan to obtain these funds from the state budget in these amounts and how much have you planned for the first two years of the state budget you are currently preparing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much. On the additional issue very briefly. For me, as Minister, all possible moves or routes of road links must be treated equally. And even in this case, I guarantee that in this direction there will also be a study of options that must show what is ultimately chosen. And I believe that the profession in this direction will also work and also make the right decision and propose to the Ministry, the Minister of the Interior, decisions on further steps, including placement in the room and so on, which of course works and is in charge of the Ministry of Environment and Space. We will provide concrete grounds for this end, because there is no secret, because very detailed assessments of the investments needed are made for this, and I think there is no problem that we do not get this data and we can also discuss them together. Perhaps I would also say this - as I answered in the first part of the question - to follow the steps taken to harmonise the provision of funding. You have very well estimated that state roads are those that essentially fall on the shoulders of the state budget. It will probably not be different here either, because we are looking for other segments of the transport source of funding in combination for private-public partnership, which I think is the only or almost the only real assumption. So, state roads will have to go through the period that I have mentioned several times today through the dynamics that will eventually be demonstrated through the national modernisation programme of the state road network. I would also say that the dynamics for the following budgets are somehow oriented in this direction, although as a transport minister I would like to see the amount of the budget for state roads significantly higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Commissioner Jazbec will ask the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Environment and Space, I ask you this. Pursuant to the Regulation on Environmental Taxation for Disposal of Waste Water, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 123/2004, 68/2005 and 77/2006 are obliged to distribute the payment of the environmental levy on municipal waste water to all those producing waste water throughout the municipality, whether connected to a public water network or supplied from their own water sources. In practice, part of the liabilities to municipal waste water charges an environmental duty in accordance with the Regulation and the rest charge an environmental duty only to users connected to a public water network. This different approach causes confusion and dissatisfaction among people. You are asked by the Minister of Environment and Space: How will the Ministry or the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 16 of the Regulation, take action against those liable to municipal waste water which do not collect environmental taxes in accordance with the Regulation, and what does it intend to do to simplify the approach to environmental duty at the republic level? In short, I ask the following question: Most Slovene municipalities do not collect this environmental duty; recently, a government regulation has been amended, which does not reward those who do not pay these environmental taxes, but gives some kind of penalty to those who have applied legislation two years ago. I ask for action: What will happen to those who have not collected and removed these environmental taxes in the last two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question to the honourable Member. First of all, I would like to say that the basis for the regulation and amendment of the regulation referred to by Mr Jazbec is the law on environmental protection, which provides for the separation and cleaning of municipal and palavian waste water as a compulsory municipal economic public service for environmental protection. And the law enforces one fundamental principle, and that is the principle of payment for the burden. And the environmental duty is prescribed for pollution of the environment with waste municipal water and is owed by the polluter. Then the regulation you discussed follows, and I can tell you that, as you yourself have determined, on the basis of the regulation in force until its amendment, the municipalities for the compulsory public service of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water must ensure the provision of these services throughout the municipality, except at 1500 metres above sea level, which we know is practically out of the question. The means of implementation and the scope of the services may vary for different areas of the municipalities according to the requirements of the rules, mention the content of the rules of separation and the operational programme. We have been briefed by the Ministry on this problem, which is that the provisions of the Environmental Tax Regulation concerning the distribution of environmental duty in certain municipalities are not fully implemented. The problem arose mainly because some municipalities in their areas of compulsory public service have not been regulated in a prescribed manner or public service providers do not perform all the prescribed services or do not perform them or perform them throughout the territory of the municipalities. When I was on the ground, I received a number of comments on this subject, of course by those municipalities that did not fully collect these benefits, as well as questions similar to those of yours, which were fully implementing the provisions of the Regulation. We have decided to amend the Environmental Taxation Regulation, in this way, we have determined that the environmental duty is paid for municipal waste water that goes into public sewage, sewage and small cleaning facilities, and that the public service provider for all these three groups must perform the prescribed public service services. If I am even more specific, with this amendment to the regulation to which you do not have the most positive relationship, because you say that it has not done what has been done since the beginning of the Regulation in its entirety, we have allowed the municipalities to exempt the payment of environmental taxes for those buildings which will not be connected to public sewage by 2015 and therefore for them the arrangements for decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water will not be co-financed by the funds of the environmental tax collected, since the environmental tax is intended and is intended for the construction of public municipal infrastructure. The owners of those buildings from which the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water will be resolved by the construction of a public sewerage network under the current operational programme cannot in any way be exempted from the payment of environmental duty. Knowing the geographical structure of Slovenia and Slovenian municipalities, we know in which cases the municipality will be able to achieve this exception by special procedure. This is said to be the case, the amendment of the Regulation has allowed for the possibility of exemption from environmental duty, while at the same time the public service of decommissioning and cleaning municipal waste and precipitation water must be regulated and organised in the manner prescribed, and this is the task of the municipality. The implementation of such measures and the arrangements for decommissioning and cleaning should also be ensured to prevent the decommissioning of unpolluted or inadequately cleaned municipal waste water. In order to ensure this, the municipality must draw up an appropriate programme of arrangements for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water in areas where such buildings lie or ensure their implementation. In the final part, I would like to answer one more question - how it worked before the regulation was amended. Those municipalities which have not regulated the implementation of the compulsory public water extraction and purification service in a prescribed manner cannot also be eligible for the State budget investment under the environmental duty item. This is one of the direct consequences if the Regulation is not fully implemented. We are aware that the implementation of the rules in this area, if very openly so, has been partially flawed, and therefore we expect, on the basis of the amended regulation, to further strengthen our cooperation with our ministry, the ARSO, which is the direct authority implementing it, as well as our environmental inspectorate, which is directly competent to control or control the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you. The Minister, if I understand correctly, will not be able to obtain any sanctions for those who have not done so in the future only in the future the municipalities of these funds collected under the environmental duty as investments for extended sewerage networks. If that's the right answer, then we're actually being punished.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I expect that the municipalities will fully follow the current regulations, which have also been amended. It was mainly changed in the sense that in those areas where we know that they have a large number or separate housing and facilities and it was really difficult to carry out this service in the way I said it would be. On the proposal of the mayor, the municipal council will have to propose an exception to the Ministry of Environment and Space. This will also be reviewed and, if the other services are arranged, the exception will allow them to do so. In this way it also means that all Slovenian municipalities will fully implement the said Regulation. I expect that this amended Regulation will allow the conduct of certain Slovenian municipalities to be no longer disputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It is the turn of my colleague Juban to ask a question to the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Zhagar. The local self-government service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also carries out calls for certain areas covered by it. We also gave you an example of the so-called neighbouring programme Slovenia-Hungary-Croatia 2004-2006 as an example of the events that are taking place at your ministry, according to our assessment of the inappropriate. When you sign off on some funds for a particular programme, the conditions that stakeholders must meet, including in electronic form, the interested parties shall apply and then the event is over for a while. There are no answers, they get answers later; in so far as there is a negative response, they must also personally or themselves request the conclusions in which the negative answers are given, there is a time-consuming event, or what has happened in this case, that they should be deprived of the resources they should receive. It also happens that, despite the complete documentation also in electronic form or an attachment to the CD, it is said at home that there was no CD in this service, which is also an additional reason for the failure of the tender. My question is: You have often promised and provided assistance to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy in the preparation and manufacture of applications for various calls for EU funds, both of which are different. The question is in the following parts: Why is it that the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy does not take into account instructions for the preparation and submission of project proposals, in a work where it is ensured that applications to which no electronic version will be submitted will not be automatically rejected, but that applicants will be invited to supplement their applications? It happened to us the other way around. Do you allow the CD to be lost in the application processing process? The procedure is quite bureaucratic - how will you shorten and what will you do for it? Do you not think that state institutions should assist beneficiaries to the best of their ability to draw on European funds rather than with non-life and bureaucratic obstacles, delays, excuses and elevated relations? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Zhagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Member of the Commission, your question is essentially about the absorption of the Structural Funds. I must say that after practically this pumping at the beginning of last year was at zero, we have made significant progress in this interim period and are now among the leading countries. This, of course, does not mean that it is not yet necessary to pursue this intensely. Now, with regard to all the many problems that have arisen here, I must say that we have been able to optimize, improve the system; in short, we have implemented all the measures within a possible system. In fact, this system was kind of our legacy. A single programming document, you know, has already been negotiated and, in fact, in this time frame available, has been virtually impossible to hack into the system globally, as this could have resulted in the loss of these funds altogether. As far as your question is concerned, this concerns the issue of cross-border cooperation funds, i.e. Interreg. This is even more embarrassing because all the activities have been carried out before that at an agency that we have just abolished with 1.1 or that the National Assembly has abolished by adopting a law on coherent regional development, and we have also essentially inherited this specific invitation to tender that you are referring to. At the principle level, I absolutely agree with you and in this direction all activities are under way. Unfortunately, however, at this point we were not able to do anything but strictly implement in accordance with all the conditions, including the call for proposals, all the activities and ensure that things flow as actively as possible. And in particular, let's say this project, which is under the title of the trilateral project, namely Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, is this second call that started last year, even at the agency this time, was made in the same way as all of the previous ones. When we succeeded, it was practically already in the middle of this, there was no way for the call to stop, simplify procedures and restart because it could actually jeopardise the pumping and realisation of all projects. Now, the result of this call is this, specifically, that we have received 176 applications and that we will be able to approve them or that we have 29 so far, we have some remaining funds, which is enough for two additional or three applications and nothing more. Which means that there were practically six times as many roles as the funds were available, so that in fact these questions that you asked us, I get practically every day from all those who failed in the invitation to tender. In the future, we are planning to significantly simplify procedures, divide calls to individual borders, these things are already being prepared, and the implementation process itself will be significantly simpler. We will go to the so-called search for a project idea as a starting point and then, based on the projects of the idea, we will decide on those projects that should go from start to finish. Now, with regard to the call for proposals themselves and also all the procedures that have been carried out specifically in this particular project, I can agree that they have been conducted fairly bureaucraticly, but they were exactly what you said: they were led precisely by bureaucratism. Indeed, after the whole procedure had to be carried out, the service had to follow strictly all the instructions concerning the invitation to tender, since otherwise one complaint could arise, the invitation to tender fell and the entire programme could fall. And let's say in this case, or in this case, a specific project, actually, according to the information I got from the relevant services that run all the procedures, it took two CDs, if that's the question. And it was that CD that was needed for the printed application that this CD reporter didn't transmit. He sent someone else. If the others were missing, they could have called him in accordance with the tendering conditions, I repeat, to supplement the application, but this was not possible in this case. I would not like to comment on stories about various CDs that have happened in the past. However, we have no possibility of not being in line with the conditions already set out, I fear that in the past period and not least coordinated with the partners through both [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]] either way in this invitation to tender. [[...]] And as far as education is concerned. I must say that as part of all the procedures that have led to a significantly improved situation with regard to European funds, many programmes have already been made at the level of education, and many are still planned. Last week, for example, in your environment, in Radenci, there was a workshop on the issue of drawing up structural funds, on specific occasions, because it is important that people have a sense of concrete cases. But in this case, that's obviously what this is about. [[End warning sign]] that the notifier has not scrutinised and complied with the necessary documentation. I'm sorry, but these are the findings of our work, and you can't go past these things. In the future [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Comrade Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I believe in your good will and that something might really happen, both on the one hand and on the other. In this way, I mean that if the conditions apply for those candidates, there must also be some deadlines and conditions for those who decide to do so on the other hand, including bureaucrats that bring these matters to a close. Here we see that we have been dealing on the one hand with some flaw that could be complemented by another cd under the conditions in force. It didn't happen, nobody asked for it, and there was no way. For those who are far from Ljubljana, it is also physically more difficult to intervene than those who go across the street in Ljubljana. And of course, then you bring things in the correct way to the end. Maybe it's my personal problem because I'm experiencing in several ministries that some bureaucrats who seem to have some power simply don't respond to applications or complaints, and people don't know what they're up to. At the same time, when I asked you this question, it was also my fear that something like this would not happen to you, that you would not deliberately answer some of the applicants and that you would then miss all the hands and that the story would be lost, as in our case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Minister, have you read the supplementary question or answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thanks again for saying that. I would like to reiterate that in this case, and even in the case of the implementation of this programme in this part, when we took him into office after the termination of the Agency and entered into the story in the middle of the call for tender, it was strictly necessary to take into account the terms of the call. And according to the services provided, this has been taken into account in all cases, including with regard to answers and deadlines. Of course, I can believe the job, but I am ready to look again at what has really occurred in any specific error in this story. But they assure me at work that this has not happened. Once again, as far as I am concerned personally, the way I see it from the point of view of the approach is essential, substantially too liberal. We have also had and still have a similar story in all other parts of drawing on European funds. During this period, it is said that at this time, which we are actually running out of, this year, it was impossible to change systemic things because negotiations for change would be almost impossible both with partners across borders and with the Commission and could completely jeopardise the use of these funds. For the future, as I have already mentioned, we are currently planning to simplify the system substantially, of course to this extent, as far as we are allowed both by the regulation of the European Union and by our legislation, which I can assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Commissioner Janc will ask the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! There are almost more ministers than Members, but that is probably already this hour. I have a question. I would like to ask the Minister's oral reply at the next meeting, if possible. In particular, farmers must fulfil each year the application for direct payments under the agricultural policy measure. On the basis of the applications made, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development shall approve the appropriations by measure. Allocations to farmers shall be made towards the end of the year or even in the following year. In an interview with Kmecki, the Director-General, Mr Franz Kebe, said on 23 August 2006 that all payments for this year would be carried over to the following year. Farmers will thus be harmed for part of the funds, because in the event of this year's payment these funds would be taken into account on an income basis of 50% and in the second year they would go to 75%. In 2004, the Republic of Slovenia launched measures to meet EU agricultural standards. One of these standards is also a nitrate directive. On this basis, farmers had to invest heavily in the manure and fertiliser capacity warehouse and completed them by the end of 2005. Some of the investments were also multimillion. Many farmers have asked me that they have not yet received, despite the requests made and the final investment reports, neither the corresponding funds nor the replies from the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. I have two short questions. First: On what basis did the Director-General of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development make this statement? Ter: Will the funds really be paid off in the following year? And second question: How many farmers have already been paid for EU standards in agriculture and at what levels? How many beneficiaries are there? Ter: What is the amount of these funds? I would also like to ask: Will these funds be paid in 2006 or in 2007? Thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. It is the turn of my colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler, who will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. On the Ministry of the Interior's website, we can read that the Ministry wants to reduce compensation claims for the use of forceful police resources. That more and more police officers are suspected of human rights violations, we also read in the annual reports on police work. In 2003, 51 police officers were suspected of crimes against human rights and fundamental freedoms, in 2004 63, last year 68. However, this year's half-year report does not show that the trend would have fallen, as only in the first half of the year were the suspects already 35. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, how extensive are the educational programmes or content, for candidates and candidates for police and police officers, in the area of police powers and human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Members, for this matter. It is true that in such a large system there are also mistakes that occur and I am in fact very happy that the police are so effectively fighting within the system against all those police officers who do not do the right thing or even commit crimes or are involved in crimes and in such crimes. And it is true that this year we have accused a lot of policemen of such crimes and put them out of the system, if I put it so simply, and I think it is right that the police fight such acts in this way. Otherwise, I can give you a brief description of how the police training program is going on. In fact, candidates for police officers may apply after the completion of their secondary education for calls when they are published and shall be educated under a special programme for police officers. This programme takes, as you know, 18 months, approximately 2190 hours have been completed at this time, and if I stop in certain programmes that are particularly important for the efficiency of professional work, I can say that in the case of technical and professional subjects, 100 lessons are allocated to the subject of police powers, 100 hours of social skills and 100 hours of professional ethics. It is particularly important to mention in the subject of professional ethics that in the afternoon seminars they have, Amnesty International Slovenia also participates, which gives them certain topics, as well as the Ombudsman and the Institute for Nationality Affairs, to include individual experts in particular from the point of view of ethnic groups and the protection of the rights of such groups of people, which may be slightly more marginal in society, and this is particularly important. With regard to the subject of social skills, particular emphasis is placed on the day - most people may not even know what is going on there - the area of communication with people in the process, and in particular conflict management. Of course, police officers carry out this work and this training both at the police academy and at police stations, where a good part of the training is practical, police officers go to the police station after a certain stage of training and perform some kind of practice alongside mentors, where they do not work alone, and I must say that this practical education is about 270 hours at the school itself, and then we have training at police stations. If I touch on a few more trainings that we have carried out in the police force for police officers who are already employed in police units, I must say that a special form of training on police powers and practical procedures has been carried out in the internal ministry and police system since 1996, each year special emphasis has been given on the experience of previous years and on the annual level of police - it is said to police officers who work on the ground if I say they exercise practical powers - 80 hours per year and for police officers who do not operate on the ground and do not exercise police powers per day, 60 hours. In this respect, we are particularly concerned about the transfer of practices, both good and bad, of police station commanders, who are responsible for the implementation of this programme and at the level of administrations, we also have inspectors who are also involved in the practical work of exercising those powers in which coercive resources are used. If I can just add what the main points are in this year's programme, this will probably be interesting. This year, in the field of the theoretical content of human rights, the following content is covered: protection of human rights and freedoms in police procedures in the area of deprivation of liberty and use of coercive means; rules of communication and treatment of parties in police procedures; awareness of the new rules on police powers; police detention and how this is done in such a way that it is as less stressful for those in the process as possible; and constitutional principles and legal conditions regarding the use of any coercive means. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u208	I thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. On 14 June this year, a ceremony was held in Tacno on completion of education, including the first group of candidates and candidates for police officers and police officers to monitor the state border. The first generation began their education in March 2006 and concluded, as I said before, in July 2006, this year. The education of these police officers was not carried out by the same content as the police working in the interior of the country, although they have the same titles, and I ask you: What will happen to these police officers, given that the expansion of the Schengen area has shifted to the future? How will these officers ensure a higher standard of protection of human rights and freedoms? Will they receive any additional and specific training in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms? Or can we hope to continue to increase the number of lawsuits and claims for damages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Again, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I'd be happy to answer that part of the question. As you know, a law has also been passed in the National Assembly, which has allowed for such a way of education. In doing so, it must be made very clear that it was the short-term training of these police officers who are not qualified for all the tasks carried out by police officers, so they are assigned only to units dedicated to the implementation of the Schengen border control. So it's a 5-km belt where these officers are trained to perform those tasks that police officers carry out in these situations. Their life expectancy, if I say so, is limited to a maximum of 5 years in the police force and can be extended once for 5 years. If these officers want to stay longer in the police force, they'll have to do additional training up to the length of training for 18 months. However, after they arrive in the units, they are also included in all the topics of regular training in which units are established. With regard to Schengen, the delay of Schengen, etc., I can say that there are now very intensive interviews and other possible technical solutions to be made so that we can still reach the date of October 2007. I was just now on the informal world in Tantrah, where we talked a lot about this, and now in the next week we will find out about some technical solutions and then in the formal world in Luxembourg we already know more precisely whether this thing is delaying. Of course, further decisions will depend on how this thing goes. If this is to occur at longer intervals, of course, it will be necessary to think carefully about how to empower these police officers and police officers and give them all the knowledge they need to be able to perform other tasks. However, if there are no delays, these police officers - of course, once they have completed this education - have practically gone through the education carried out by other persons who do not exercise their powers on the ground, and thus are officially authorised persons and receive all the knowledge they need. However, it should also be said that in these units there is a different amount, if I say so, 250 people have come up with something new, but we have about 1,600, 1,700 people working in the field who have been doing this work since before. In short, we assume that these officers will never do their own work, but will work with older colleagues and even better qualified ones. We therefore expect that this would not result in additional infringements and additional complications.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have six more questions ahead of us: the next one will be asked by his colleague Han to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The harmonisation of the labour law in the Economic and Social Council has been one of the main issues in the field of employee rights for some time. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have asked you, Mr Minister, and the Prime Minister on several occasions what is happening to the social dialogue in Slovenia. More and more often, the government, I could say, is reviving the position of the social partners, especially the opinion of the labour force or trade unions. You always ensure that social dialogue takes place normally and without speciality, while at the same time we are witnessing various trade unions protests, the failure to work on your way in the economic and social world, the failure to deal with the solutions you are forcing, and the resentment over some of your statements. We all have in mind your statement that instead of them, you will be workers, elected representatives, who will represent the workers themselves. You have recently presented a proposal for a package solution in the area of cancellation deadlines, discharges and compensation for the unemployed and so on. Trade unions have already assessed the proposal as a violation of employees' rights. In particular, your proposal is problematic because it does not bring important innovations on the employment side, but only reduces protection against forgiveness. The Labour Relations Act is understood as a labour constitution as the product of a compromise between the social partners. Although we have a relatively new law that works well according to your statistics, you want to change and reduce some labour rights at all costs. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: What changes to the labour law are so urgent in your opinion that you are prepared to refer them to further consideration, even if they are not coordinated between the social partners? Why are you willing to insist on changes that are unacceptable to some of the social partners, given your statements at all costs - to say with your head through the wall? Finally, the distinguished minister: Will you take responsibility for economic damage if employees decide to defend their rights also through legitimate forms of social struggle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you so much for asking. Well, in two years of my mandate, I can stress that we have not reduced any rights, but we have increased rights for the disabled. First, however, we have fulfilled the electoral promise and have stopped the fall in pensions, which was adopted under the previous mandate. Young mothers, or parents, have been further stimulated by changes in parental care, as well as by other categories of individuals, such as family helpers, and so on and so forth. But there was no right, so as far as this is concerned, we have a completely peaceful conscience. To get into the social dialogue - see how many laws have been adopted by consensus, confirmed in the Economic and Social Council, only one single out of 18 laws, with only one article the social partners disagreed, and this was the composition of the Council of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. But you know, the law on institutions clearly says that the founder has to have a majority, so we had, as far as that's concerned, okay. With regard to the Labour Relations Act - what is it like? For about 8 years, it was coordinated by the previous coalitions and then we got what we got: a non-modern law that does not support the Lisbon Strategy. And the whole of Europe is now facing the issue of how to implement the so-called "flexicurity", security flexibility, and we as Slovenia are somehow committed to this, because this means that there will be more jobs in Slovenia. Here you are asking what changes in the labour law are so necessary in your opinion that you are willing to refer them to further consideration. Two types of changes, namely protection and health at work and non-discrimination. This applies to two directives and we will certainly refer this to the National Assembly, otherwise they would violate the directives, reduce safety and health at work and, of course, prevent what we have to: discrimination is also being carried out in some segments. I am particularly interested in this as Minister of Labour, but if, of course, your group is not interested in this, you have to ask yourself. Of course, we also stressed the necessary changes regarding safety and flexibility. You're talking about reducing unemployment and then why change. Yes, I am glad that unemployment is falling, that the government is happy, and that Slovenia is happy. However, we are not happy enough because they still find it harder to obtain employment for young people, older people and women, and because of these people we also need to make the necessary changes to the labour law and we are determined to do so. As Minister of Labour, I have proposed some improvements, namely a leave for parents of school-bound children to benefit from it during vacations, the inclusion of the Republic Employment Office in the assistance of finding a job already during the cancellation period. This legislation does not allow for the benefit of active employment policy programmes, but employers also have an obligation to cover compensation for the duration of the search. This means that everyone would assume certain obligations in order to find employment as soon as possible. At the same time, I also offered an increase, as the government offered to increase the financial compensation for the period of unemployment. We want to implement the Scandinavian model, which means flexibility, incentives for new jobs, and fewer measures that mean preserving some old jobs, which is also a reverse world. With measures aimed at preserving jobs, little has been done in Slovenia and a great deal of budgetary money has been spent. By the way, I can also mention that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in one previous mandate, has adopted a decision to approve 15 billion for rehabilitation, but it was - we know - that no jobs have been saved. So we have modern European guidelines, and in this context we also have a law on working relations. Otherwise, what the public said about the reduction of rights was suggested by employers, legitimately. They presented a lot of projects, a lot of changes, but the unions on the other hand didn't, and that's a fact, they didn't prepare well. However, I said that I would represent the workers in cases where the unions or representatives of the workers were not at the negotiations, but in this case I feel obliged to protect the workers. That's what we're talking [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot be satisfied with your answer. However, since you have been Minister of Labour, Social and Family Affairs in Slovenia, many things have happened - people have been on the road. If we look at the last proposal of your asbestos law, there were people in front of our beautiful hall, in front of Parliament, and opposed to your decisions, so that your compliments truly surprise me. However, I would ask you a third part of my question, to which you did not answer me: Will you take responsibility for economic damage if employees decide to defend their rights also through legitimate forms of social struggle? I recommend you to let some things go, but if you say sports, "let the ball go down" and then speak so proudly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you. Minister Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u218	Good treasure just bragging, that's all. That unemployment is falling is a fact, but, of course, we are not yet sufficiently satisfied because some categories of people find jobs more difficult. What I said at the outset may also be a little bit - not a second tone, but in particular I am responsible to you that there will be no economic damage due to these measures. Every serious labour market analyst knows that with greater flexibility in the labour market, more incentives are given to more jobs because employers are more inclined to work. So, more than that, economic benefits and greater social security. Social security as a government is primarily based on employment as the basis of social security, because it also enables social integration, and this is most important, especially for those categories that find it difficult to find jobs. This change in the employment of people with disabilities, which had already been designed, and in principle the government, the previous government, has passed legislation and we have implemented it, has done a great deal of good. Employers and employees are pleased. The employment of the disabled has increased by more than 40%, but we have made flexibility here. And this way we go with other categories, this will certainly be a positive effect. And this measure, a legal provision adopted by the previous government, has been well established, I have not criticised it because it has produced effects. But let's take a look at those measures that don't have good effects, and point them out to me, and then, I mean, if you suggest it, I will definitely agree with you and we will implement them. Finally, we will also talk in the framework of the partnership for development and listen to good proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It's mag. A joke to ask Dr. Zhagar a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. My question to the Minister responsible for local self-government and regional development is: What is the effectiveness of drawing financial resources from the European Union and how does this affect the financing or financial situation of local communities? Of course, I can't do it without bragging about anything. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But the data show, Mr. Minister for Local Self-Government, that you only realized 7.8 or a poor 12th budget in 2006. [[...]] I ask you: What are you doing in government service if you have managed to absorb only 1.3 billion out of the projected 17.2 billion? However, since you are also the minister responsible for regional policy, or if you want the most important, most pathetic part of European policies, I am of course interested in why some other ministers - the Minister of the Economy manages to draw only 25% of the expected funds, environment and space 32.1 and only because of the application of agricultural policy, we have a slightly more successful use of European funds in this area. In particular, it is of particular concern that the area of pre-accession funds of the European Union, for which 8 billion were envisaged this year, you have - I assume that this is all within your purview - just one billion or 12% of the draw. I ask you, as Minister responsible for the field of local self-government and regional policy: Have you, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, yet to correct the projections for European funds? [[A quick analysis would show that at the end of the year, at least 30 billion dollars will fall out.]] Since we are before the beginning of 2007, it is of course very important what this will look like in 2007. In 2007, of course, the financial situation of the regions, municipalities, will be so much more difficult because it is unlikely that this money will be gone, but at the same time, in the government, with tax reform, you have decided to take some 12 to 15 billion tolls away from the municipalities due to a reduction in the rates of income. So will the congregations be in more debt? So I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, if you will explain to us: What is the use of European funds, how does this affect the financial situation of Slovenian municipalities and how do you intend to change the financial structure, the financial conditions of the Slovenian municipalities? In order to understand, of course, how you as Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development are actually applying regional development in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you. Minister Dr. Jagar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, your questions are actually affecting the entire content of our service. In the first part, our service is committed as a management body for the management of structural funds. Then, of course, when the use of funds at this level was practically zero at the beginning of last year, we have taken quite a step forward in this period. It is true that this means, in some way, the rehabilitation of the whole system in extremely difficult circumstances, because it is not actually possible to modify a single programming document, as this would further likely have an impact on the deterioration of the situation with regard to only pumping. So we have implemented a number of measures that have intensified the pumping processes themselves and, say, today is about the same as with numbers, because we monitor pumping monthly with the finance ministry or weekly, at five levels in our service. We currently have 108% of the funds. This may sound a little strange, but we have increased the rights of individual budget holders for this reason, because we know that if we want to achieve optimumness, there is a need to provide slightly more resources and an increased level of rights is around 15%. Thus, more than is available at this point in time, if there is an overstatement on individual programmes, it will be possible to move immediately into the next financial perspective. At the moment, 101% of these funds have been awarded with conclusions and, at the moment, 84% of the contracts have already been signed. I am speaking, of course, of the total amount of funds, by expecting us to sign virtually all contracts within this and next month, and I am sure that there is no reason not to sign them for these 108%, as they have been allocated or even for 115%. As a result, and normally, there is a delay with regard to 44% of the funds paid and reimbursements at this point are approximately 34.1%. This should make it very clear that it is necessary to sign all contracts in principle this year and that, in line with the financial perspective, it will take another two years for the M+2 rule or for the implementation of investments and for the very dynamic use of the budget, only the implementation of investments is of paramount importance. And maybe another piece of information. If Slovenia took last place at the beginning of the year last year, Slovenia, as far as the use of structural funds, is concerned, is first. But it is true, and I always stress this, that our purpose is not to be a sport first, but to draw all the resources and that for the purposes and purposes for which they are intended and which will bring an additional dimension in development to Slovenia. In the second part, as mentioned by the municipalities, I must say that, in the current financial perspective, these funds do not have a significant impact on the municipalities themselves, because the municipalities had the opportunity to run on only two or to be the vehicle of the project in only two segments, at least directly, on the environmental programme where the project holder is the Ministry of Environment and Space from the Cohesion Fund, where all rights are also allocated, and in the zone where the budget statute holder is the Ministry of Economy, the Regional Development Agency implements these measures and there are virtually all contracts signed and we hope that these things will be implemented. When you were talking about the realisation of our service, you need to say that there is not much to do with our service. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] our services, but the realization of our service is linked to so-called direct incentives, except for the part where we are carriers of transboundary cooperation and the Phar programmes. [[...]] So, pre-accession assistance, which should have been regulated long ago, is still to be regulated. As regards this part, the service is the carrier of five budget lines, and these are exclusively investments made by the practical municipalities, namely the so-called implementing parts of the RRP, the restructuring of the saviva region, the regional infrastructure, these are the 6.3 billion that we have further brought in this year for the funds of the municipalities, the development assistance to the Court, the mitigation of the economic consequences of the change in border regimes and infrastructure in areas where Roma ethnic communities live. These are our domestic assets. I can tell you that the nature of the investment or the realisation of these funds requires a large part of the procedures during the first half of this year so that investments can then be made in the second half of the year. Once again, the beneficiaries of these investments are individual municipalities, signed virtually more than 95% of all contracts, so all these funds are distributed under contracts, and I am confident that the municipalities will also implement these projects and will be significantly better at the end of the year with regard to the implementation of our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u224	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. But, look, first we're going to have a very serious discussion about who allowed you to increase your drawing rights without letting the National Assembly know about it, because you basically took it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Because Minister Bajuk says that the President of the State must not increase the right to draw without someone deciding. [[...]] But let's put that aside. I asked you: Will you fix the 2006 forecast? Because we both agree: if you sign the remaining 17% of the points of the contracts by the end of the year, this will certainly not be a draw in this year. That is why in this year income will come at least about 35, 30, 35 billion off and you will drive this in 2007 and 2008 on the principle of paid realization. This is a mistake you have been drawing for two years, you were saying something very similar last year, or Mr. Minister, and in the end we saw: instead of 100 billion we had only about 70 billion realisations in 2005. And it'll be a similar story in 2006. The Commissioner for Budget reminds Member States that in 2007 it is the last year when you will be able to draw money or no longer be able to draw money from the 2004 programmes. If you fail to absorb 8 billion pre-accession funds from the European Union in your budget in 2006, it will blow up. And so again: How will this affect individual congregations or will you do something to provide these congregations with serious resources in view of the changes in the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, which you are already talking about? The European Union is obviously not doing this, you're taking other resources from them. What will you do to make it possible for mayors who are now fighting in local elections to actually enter healthy fiscal years? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you. Again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u226	Yes, thank you, Mr Member, I apologize, but I think I've already explained these things, and I can explain this to you one more time. Of course, if you're talking about 100 billion, then you have to say that these are actually all the funds. And it must be made very clear that only the M+2 rule is still in place, at least to the extent that it is known to me in accordance with the single programming document signed by the previous government, namely the one in which you were, and because the pumping was not provided during that period. And in line with the guarantees and budget lines, these are individual ministries, things about pumping are currently going according to plans and also according to plans as recorded in the national budget. However, I agree with you that because of many administrative obstacles, because of a system that has been completely impossible to set up, there is still quite a lot of effort to do to bring things down. As far as the congregations are concerned, I have already explained. The municipalities in this story perform on only two items, all the funds are practically allocated on these two items and I do not see any obstacles and problems regarding the municipalities. However, when it comes to municipalities, community funding, if we touch on this issue, it is necessary to say that in the past 15 or 12 years, if you will, the congregations have received numerous burden - bearing tasks without adequate financial resources. This is what we, on a permanent basis now, are correcting by various measures in order to make it easier to ensure their own participation in those cases where they are a participant. [[?]] These funds, and this correction of this system and a more balanced system of financing, have been written down or written down and guidance is also given to the new law on the financing of municipalities, as well as to the new law on the financing of municipalities, including in relation to the amendment of tax legislation, opening up to municipalities a larger and better room of manoeuvre as regards the current situation. In the future, it is true that, in the next financial perspective, we are planning, including from the Structural Funds, significantly more funding for projects. We are talking about investment projects that the municipalities will be able to implement, and in practice now, during this term of office, the municipality under this title, except for cross-border cooperation, have not yet had many individual projects and had no access, except through the Ministry of Environment and Space, to the Cohesion Fund, and through the Ministry of Economy in the area of craft production zones, where the projects are practically completed. Of course, as regards this part of the story, which is linked to the Structural Funds, we are taking cohesion policy in the given framework, in the given options - with the problem that we inherited and needed to address, that is to say with the rehabilitation of the system with great efforts in a positive direction, and I am confident that things will be realized 100% at the end of the financial period, which is, of course, only 2 years from now, as regards the current financial perspective. It is true, however, that the second year has already covered both financial perspectives, and this is, of course, a known fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak. I assume it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u228	Yes, I am procedurally proposing that the National Assembly should decide tomorrow, at the time of the vote, to hold a debate on the Minister's response. This debate is necessary for several reasons. One reason is, Mr. Minister, you've been a minister for two years and in two years you could have changed the system three times if you wanted. Minister, in 2005, you predicted 90 billion realizations. You've implemented 62.5%, and then you've transferred all of this to 2006. In 2007, you have projected 107 billion realisations, so far you have managed to absorb 38 billion. And of course that's the wrong number in here. I asked the minister if he would prepare a 2006 balance because they didn't hold that number. The problem in 2007, Mr Minister, is that you no longer have so-called flat-rate refunds in 2007. And you do, as the Minister of Finance has said today, currently a billion plus, but you have a billion plus because this year you get 14 billion lump sums. That's not gonna happen next year. And if there's a situation because you're not going to change the system, you're still going to go to M + 2, the ceteris paribus is going to be a situation of at least 15 billion minus. One year from now, I will ask you from the same seat - and I hope that you will still be there - and of course we will discuss this - how big a hole will be, because things will fall. I therefore propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly, because it is also among ministers not to say Members, much different or inadequate information. And now to the congregations. I understand that there is a law in the procedure on the financing of municipalities. This law on the financing of municipalities, by the way, is one of the most crucial but unknown topics for local elections. Mr Minister has decided that after 15 years of autonomy, the local government will take away the tax source from the municipalities. Of course, the minister was talking about this, and he was going to think about the changes. And he said - what? I will replace this by providing the municipalities with money from the European Union. So I take their income, 35% of their income goes to Slovenian municipalities, that's 12 to 15 billion off just because of the tax reforms you've proposed without consulting municipalities. And you will tell the municipalities, but instead you will get money from the European Union from the next financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. It is therefore logical that, like all other states of the novelty, even though we are first among the novelties, the European Union warns you. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And I propose, Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members who are still here to discuss this issue, that Mr. Jagar, Mr. Bajuk, Mr. Janša present to us a public financial situation over the period [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Comrade Squeakle. I have also allowed you a slightly broader explanation, as usual, because I agree with my colleague Pecett that public finances and European funds are such an important chapter of our work that we must not limit this debate. We will decide on your proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure tomorrow evening in the framework of the votes, as well as on some other proposals. It is now the turn of Dr. Slavinec, who will ask the question first to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is rightly absent and then to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Podobnik, Dr. Rupel in absentia [[Let each one find himself in his own questions and then answer me]] Oh, my God! Recent complications along the Muri River at Hotiz over the maintenance of the anti-floating embankments and the Croatian unilateral beginning of the construction of the disputed road against the town of Mirište have confirmed once again that the neighbouring country is continuing its policy of enforcement and is successfully applying the principle of efficiency in international law, which, unfortunately, the Republic of Slovenia does not understand well and does not know how to apply it. Last July, a brionic declaration was adopted on the avoidance of incidents by which both countries committed, inter alia, that the situation on the day of independence was in force. In the case of Hotize, there was an indisputable fact at that time the border along the middle of the Mura River and although the cadastral border does not fully follow the River Mura, it is undeniable that the left side was in the entire area under the jurisdiction of the Slovenian police and authorities and the right side of the Croatian. And given the statements that the brionic statement is a significantly more ambitious step than the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, as it enforces the situation on 21 June 1991, which, as a principle of international law, provides the basic negotiating basis for the situation at 21st, i.e. at the time of independence. Recently, after the incident in Hotiza, we can hear that Slovenia has defended the principles of the Badinter Commission, so I ask you the following questions. When will your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia begin to behave in accordance with the situation on the day of independence? And why is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to include Croatian companies on our side in the reconstruction of the embankments, as we know that it was not so until last year, before the independence and even until last year, but it maintained only the Slovenian side. And the recently adopted agreement on the joint restoration of the embankments does not prejudge the border or enforce the so-called cadastral principle in demilitarisation. And why did the Republic of Slovenia agree to the said agreement on the basis of the situation on the day of independence? How the government will protect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the interests of the owners of the disputed land with regard to the unjustified interference in the building of the disputed road against Mirište and whether, in your opinion, the post-resistance situation in the case of joint rescheduling agreements is not one of the documents that will weaken our negotiating bases [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ambassador Dr. Slavinec. Some of the questions you have asked me are very similar to those raised by your fellow Member, Dr Gantar, on the Committee on Environment and Space, and we have already answered them in the first part and have agreed with him to have a special meeting of the Committee which will be devoted to these very questions. Allow me to touch some of your questions in more detail, especially those related to the work of the director I am leading, and most specifically. On your question, when will your ministry and government begin to behave in accordance with the situation on 25.6.1991, I would count five points where I firmly believe that I acted as Minister in accordance with this decision that the starting point is on 25.6.1991. I would like to remind you of the law on the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone, which enforces the state of the sea as a matter of independence in the new European context. We are exercising our powers at sea, and we are also implementing them within the framework of international maritime protection organisations. We are very active at many multi- and bilateral meetings on this topic. Another area. Within my powers, the Geodetic Authority has entered the cadastral Municipality of the Sea for the entire territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia, which includes the entire Bay of Piranhas to point T5. The Republic of Slovenia is also registered as owner of the marine body in the Land Book of the Republic of Slovenia. Third area. The inspection for the environment and space and geodetics has heard and established jurisdiction on the left bank of Dragonje in the cadastral municipality of Sečovlje. The Sečovlje Landscape Park also regulates water management issues in the lower dranje stream, and we have allocated the appropriate funds for this. It's the fourth area. At Metlika, specifically in the cadastral municipality of Bušinja vas, the inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision on the environment and space, where he found black construction and also issued a measure prohibiting the expansion of the entire body carried out by the County Road Administration Karlovac. The decision was served by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fifth area, which deals particularly with Hotizo-related issues. At the 8th meeting of the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission on Water Management in February this year, we also made it very clear that the statute on independence is therefore what we expect from the Republic of Croatia on the Muri River. If I quote, at this meeting, the eighth private-permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission: "The Slovenian side has stressed that any conclusions or starting points for the work of this commission or its subordinate subcommittees, which are not based on the basis of 25.6.1991, cannot be dealt with under a contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of water management relations. The subject matter of the contract is only an expert and technical solution to substantive issues, but not defined as questions of jurisdiction, since the Treaty expressly provides that any action is of common benefit, without prejudicing state borders. To date, coordination of the activities for managing the water regime in Mura has proved to be ineffective, "that is why I quote from this minutes", and this is also illustrated by the situation in the aftermath of the August 2005 floods, which was also highlighted by State Secretary Bishčević and Dr Cerar in the conclusions of their meeting. So, I answered you when our ministry acted in accordance with the situation on 25.6.1991. On a few other questions of yours, very briefly. The bulk of the embankments on the section of Benica - Petišovci was already carried out, not all of them, mostly. In the spring time at Koto - Hotiza section, the Slovenian investor was prepared for the start of work, was prepared in July, he had all the necessary permits from our side and the financial structure of all the owners' ownership and legal consent. As a result of the agreement between the Heads of Government, I stress that the agreement between the Heads of Government, which has been confirmed by the government and is also concrete in the decision of the Slovenian-Croatian Commission on the Water Economy, stems from a number of fundamental principles that are already being elaborated. The project, which is the basis for joint work, was prepared by the Institute of Water, was prepared in March this year. He will also like to say that the only road envisaged in this project is the approach road on the so-called airside of the embankment and is necessary for the maintenance of the embankment. There will be no time today, most likely at the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space, to be significantly more detailed both on the part of the water and some other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Secretary. I can't be satisfied with such an answer, of course, because most of the time you've been answering me about the sea, and I'm asking you about Mura. I also specifically ask, "When will the border be in the middle of the Mura River?" Is that what happened in 1991, so I can be more clear? The fact that we expect such things from Croatia is, of course, one thing, but I am interested in how we will achieve them and what the ministry will do also concretely, how the ministry will protect the owners of the territory where Croatia has voluntarily built a road to the town of Mirište, where, in their territory, forests will be cut down, gravitated and started to carry out works that are not in accordance with any legislation, and at least someone has asked the owners about what they are doing. This is an intervention in the private property of these people, as well as an intervention in the environment and space beyond the relevant permits. And as for the embankments, I ask once again: What is the interest, why is it in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to build these embankments on our side as of this year? Because it wasn't like that until last year, they don't build, they rebuild, they fix. And even with last year's floods, I myself was there and I can assure you this firsthand, the Croats were not to help fortify them, but because of the bad embankments on their side flooded them all. How, then, can we count on their help to strengthen our embankments by making them firmer, or more interested in what? I hope this isn't about any land change from Hotiz to the sea you've talked about in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much. It's not about any replacements. As I said before, I have dealt with the questions that relate to the portfolio that I am leading, and since the first question was when will your ministry begin to behave in accordance with state 25.6., I have counted some specific cases. Of course, in three minutes, you can't answer all the questions. The following is the case when you mention the construction of the Croatian side of the special road to the town of Mirište. I am firmly convinced that this was an illegal act, an act which is also contrary to the Briony agreement and is contrary to the agreement of the two Heads of Government on 2 September this year. And that is why, in our view, the Slovenian side did the right thing to protect the public interest in this area. Are you asking me when the border will be in the middle of the Mura River? That's a question that goes beyond my department that I run. But I must tell you that some of the moves, some of the acts, some of the signatures of our predecessors in previous governments, have been such that my predecessors in the maintenance of these high-water embankments have literally taken away their mandate to prepare the Slovenian side through Slovenian acts and Slovenian administrative procedures to build high-water embankments. Thank God, now we do not take into account those positions that were wrong for the Republic of Slovenia at the time. I'm pretty sure we know what we're talking about. My answer is exactly the same as I started. Any authority, minister, secretary of state, inspector, perhaps also any judge or prosecutor or anyone acting in accordance with the powers it has, taking into account the situation on 25.6.1991. If we all do this, unitedly, then I am sure that we will make the necessary changes happen. There's something else I'd like to say. When it comes to flood safety, property protection, human security protection, there is also a European practice, which is also enshrined in certain European directives, that such a solution has priority and must be governed by an unwritten rule that states agree on and resolve this issue. On your question. In agreement between the two Heads of Government and the consortium contract there is no act of public authority in the area. The technical solutions, both in terms of technical adequacy and environmental protection, are provided by confirming the solution to the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Water Economic Commission and then the resulting control to be carried out by a parity-based operational group composed of three members from each country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, probably procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Yeah, sure. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that we hold a public debate on this at one future meeting, even more so because both of us agree with the Minister that the time taken is too short to really deal with the pressing issue in the right way and together find those solutions that will protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and which will also ensure the protection of the interests of owners and people living there, at the border, along with Muri. It is certainly difficult to accept the fact and naiveness of everyone who believes that Croatia's interest in participating in the restoration of our embankments - I stress - of our embankments on the left side of the Mura River in helping to protect the property of our people, but it is an extremely territorial tendency, as it has still been so far. Nor can we believe the Prime Minister's statement, or both, that this agreement does not prejudge the border, because we see what happened in two years - an agreement on the joint construction of the bridge has been thrown into the construction of the bridge by Croatia alone; and here is a bridge that was not before, there is now a road that was not before. And as I said in the introduction, the policy of implementing the facts implemented by the neighbouring Croatia, and not only in this area, certainly requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to protect its interests. The public interest, I agree, was, but only partially protected, because the police stood on the embankment. The police would protect the interest of the Republic of Slovenia by protecting the left bank of the Mura River, because under no other agreement, agreement or agreement, the border would not appear to be anywhere else. And there's a lot more [[End warning sign]] open questions, not least in the field of nationality; in the vicinity, there is also a Hungarian minority in Kota. That is why I propose that we actually hold a general debate at one of the next meetings, where there may also be an external minister, Dr. Rupel, who is unfortunately not among us today because of the absence; and I am sure that we can all take a step closer together to such a solution that will protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, so of course I propose that you support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Dr. Slavinec. As in other similar proposals, we will vote on your vote tomorrow. We continue with the questions, we have three more. It's mag. A trip that will question the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, Ambassador, Minister. The foreword to the resolution on the national programme for culture from 2004 to 2007 states that "Cultural policy is responsible for paying particular attention and continuing attention to the essential element of our cultural identity, which is at the same time the basis of our national identity - to the Slovenian language". End of story. Since the common Slovenian cultural space does not overlap with national borders, but with cultural and, in particular, linguistic ones, as globalisation and integration put smaller national languages at work, care for the Slovenian language must remain the first task of cultural policy. The fact that it is a first task also appears in the national programme. Slovenia is not only a means of daily communication, expression of spiritual and artistic messages, but also a treasurer of culture and one of the main symbols of the nation and the country, so it must be taken care of at all levels, not only in education and public communication, in working and technological processes, in technology and in scientific terminology, also in the resolution. The resolution also lists 10 measures, the first two of which are the coordination of language policy and the adoption of the law on the public use of the Slovenian language and the concern for its application. And on August 20, 2004, the Act entered into force. In the 28th Article of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it states that, again, "On a proposal from the Government, it shall adopt a national language policy programme setting out measures to carry out the tasks referred to in Article 4 of this Law for the next five-year period and providing for the necessary means and means of providing it. Article 35 also states that this must be done within two years of the entry into force of the law. The deadline has expired, so I ask you, Your Honor Minister: When will the government fulfil its legal obligation and provide the national language policy programme to the national assembly for adoption? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much for asking. So I fully agree with what the Member of Parliament has quoted from the National Programme for Culture. It is true that two years have passed since 20 August. I can only find that the actual preparation for this national programme has been very slow and this year alone, I will not say whose initiative, but it has been accelerated this year to take a more intensive approach to this resolution, so that the text with the status of work materials or the draft national programme was completed in August 2006. However, this material, as I said in the draft, was tried in September in a wider section, the Commission within the Slovenian language sector, and this was reviewed and given a positive opinion that it was going into further discussion. In particular, we want to get an opinion from the general public and put it into public debate; and before that, we believe that it is right to give such a resolution in confirmation or reflection to the National Council for Culture. I don't have the right excuse. It will now be extended by a few months' delay due to all this procedure, which I have said, but I believe that this year we will also put this resolution into the government and the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mag. Expense, again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Minister, for the national programme to be ready. If, last week, when considering the report on the implementation of the national programme for culture in 2004 and 2005, you might still be spared this question today, which is important to me because I point out that we do not get any other reports or replies on implementation in due time; for example, another implementation report has established a law on the public use of Slovenian. However, my concern is so much greater because the Ministry of Culture has a coordinating role to play, but it is clear from some measures and some records that it is not always sufficiently heard when it tries to fulfil this function in order to provide legal basis for the use of Slovenian in the preparation of legislation in accordance with Article 4. I am referring to the legislation that sets out the status of Slovenian in school, especially in higher education, I am referring to the fact that we find published invitations published in the Slovenian language, but they require documentation in English; and I could also refer to cases from which it can be recorded that sufficient strategic documents and language planning should be provided for the use of the Slovenian language in the circumstances we are in, in fact, to provide an adequate answer to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. So with regard to our reports on the implementation of the 2004 National Programme for Culture, it was indeed a delay, for 2005, it seems to me that we gave it up in June, by the date it takes, of course, to the government, and, as I know, the Committee on Culture has already considered this. Care to ensure in-depth strategic studies and reflection on this. I share this opinion with you, and I think that a wider range of experts will be included in the consideration of this resolution, so that it will be in time for all to be adopted this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. And the last question in the final round, Dr. Gabra, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr Minister, we probably agree that science can make serious progress only if politics does not interfere with it. At the time of the appointment of Dr. Pavlovič or his non-name as director of the Pedagogical Institute in Ljubljana, I believe that this has happened and not only to my conviction, but all newspapers in Slovenia are writing about political interference with this appointment. This is clear even to Slovenian radiotelevision, but not to publish it. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Do you hope, after recent events at the Pedagogical Institute of Public Affairs, to continue to ensure that your support of the administrative committees of the research institutes in this country has reduced the impact of the policy on staffing in the institutes, and that, as the Prime Minister of the Government said this this afternoon, the policy of withdrawing from the field of science, as he says it is also withdrawing from the field of economics? When we read in the media the proceedings of Dr. Pavlovič, who was the only person to apply for the invitation I am talking about, I have a feeling that his rejection was a pure case of political cuisine and pathetic creation, which could have been appointed to the board of directors, they did a dirty business for Slovenian politics. Facts that are accessible to all, including you, cannot be understood why the criteria on which the candidate for director was rejected. The scientific board of this same institute has shown you the value of your explanation, your refusal; it has shown that this value is nothing, that it is more or less pure misdirection and that the authorities close to the Ministry, for example, have found that the Institute is doing well and that there is therefore no reason for the former director not to be named again. Even at the 40th anniversary of the Pedagogical Institute, your people gave praise to the work of the Institute. The city municipality of Ljubljana has been awarded a special award. Why did you think it was worth punishing and putting it in a strange light before the Slovenian public instead of protecting the good name of the Institute and its good directors as minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you so much for asking. Research and development activities should not be their own purpose, as we know, left to the personal interests of individual researchers, as we well know, but within the framework of the public service, I stress that public services are defined in the resolution of the National Research Programme, which was adopted last December in the National Assembly. This exploratory resolution has been drawn up at the starting points that have already been exposed under your ministry. It is explicitly stated that research development activities in the public service must be effective, responsible, transparent and, above all, scientifically excellent if we agree. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of public research institutions wants and must use its responsibility for the development of all scientific disciplines in Slovenia. It is also committed to the Lisbon Guidelines, which in the first place means that they must be in the JRC, where the government has a majority in the boards of administration - we did so because if the government has a majority, it also has a responsibility to implement these guidelines. As a result, this should guide or provide guidance to implement the guidelines of the Lisbon Strategy and the guidelines of the National Research Programme, which explicitly refer to scientific excellence, young researchers and the like. And in the case of the Institute of Education - I will now specifically say, Mr Gaber - these guidelines have not been reached in this mandate. In doing so, it is particularly important to say that pedagogy, anthropology and culture are serious sciences, which means that they must be carried out in a serious scientific mechanism, with serious scientific indicators and as such evidence. And if we now look at just one of these activities that the director is obliged to accelerate and carry out, which we pay the most attention to in Slovenia, and this is working with young people, with progress and with the whole - this is an indicator that reflects the care of our own staff at our own institute. And then we can figure out the following, you can check it out, we can give you numbers if you want. When you go through all 21 researchers, you will find that it was necessary for everyone to have mastered for 6.1 years; that they were Ph.D. - 13.8 years and during the Master's degree and doctorate for 8 years. Now I'm going to tell you the numbers that are normal in the Slovenian space, which is to a master's degree, when we normally work for young researchers, 1.5 to 2 years, so there are 4 times more working there, to a doctorate of 3 to 4 years, 3 times more at the Pedagogical Institute, between a Master's degree and a doctorate is normally one and a half to two years. So, in all the criteria there they've achieved this after four times the length of time. In our opinion, this is not the best. And that's why we think that taking care of the personnel is one of the things, and that's what the director, of course, noticed and did. Unfortunately, I will now quote his words, which are written in the 2005 report, where he says literally, I will quote, "in the future we hope," so they hope, "also to strengthen the scientific competence of our work, which must be developed in accordance with the importance of the contracting and public institute", so it must be, obviously not. And then, in particular, "the number of scientific saints hasn't changed for many years, much like those with higher scientific titles". So if a director finds that the number of scientific saints and the number of people with this higher scientific title, that is to say those leading researchers, and if we notice that, then it makes sense for us to think that we're just going to give someone else. If you ask me personally, but I think that in Slovenia as directors of public research institutions should be maximum after two years, they should change everything and, of course, give people the opportunity to come to such a place to try because some researcher, some director of a public research institution, must naturally take care of coordination, for that incentive for young people to reach their levels. But not to reach their levels after such a time. What does that really mean? In fact, it means that young people there work for older people for a long time, do not reach levels, because these are averages. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] People. [[...]] And we do not think that such an institution, which we very much need in this world, is appropriate. As far as the ADR is concerned, that's why we're totally here this year. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u251	The tech's off. Dr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u252	Look, Mr. Secretary. While I hope that you will not really introduce a two-year term for directors when the administrative boards change needlessly and harmfully, it is so far gone that it does not show any discussion. However, I hope you do not explain here to us who are still present, and to those who watch us on TV, that Dr. Pavlovich is guilty of studying for 13 years, and his term was the last term here. What amuses me very much is that I'm listening to new, more and more obvious, inventive answers about why you replaced him. I'm asking you, and I hope you know how to answer me. When, the date and number of the letter, did you order the institute what you're asking it to do now? Why in your system things are not done in a way that you judge and replace directors on the basis of something that is obviously optionally chosen so that they can do it on a reasonable basis, just as they are decent. I think I know the answer. It was a typical political exchange. Why don't you just write down, Mr. Minister, that you want people to be in these places who have to meet the following conditions? First of all, they are theologians, then they are members of the SDS, maybe under different conditions members of the NSI; but if not, if none of them are yet, then they should go to the processes "alla isolation" and kneel there and then be suitable for the management of the institutes. This director has not been a member of any customer and is not a member of any customer and you may simply be disturbed by this. I don't understand how it's possible for you to treat science in this way irresponsiblely, so please answer me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u253	Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much. What you said was indeed an example of a political pamphlet. I'm not falling for it. Look, every CEO, whatever he is, makes sure things are fixed. And if someone writes that it hasn't been fixed in his mandate, then we're looking to see if it's any better. But the fact is, we don't give directives like you think, we don't give directives about what someone's done, because it's not government. The government can set up a board of directors, so we set it up, and the board of directors did its thing. Look, you just want to keep giving some instructions, some letters. No, we don't want that because we don't get involved in it, and here's one of the things that gets so bad. We are only responsible for the fact that we want young people to begin to prosper at the institutes, that this will be reduced, that their work will be reduced, in short - that they will actually start to look at indicators that are important for international scientific and fundamental research. I have here, as far as science is concerned, a complete bibliography for all the years, for all the researchers, and believe me, I've reviewed it thoroughly. And if you want once, we can sit together and we'll see each other exactly, then you can tell whether that was justified or not. We want the teaching science, which is a serious science for which we also have responsibility in Slovenia, and the government wants it to be refined to be researched at a high scientific level. I could, of course, compare you to what quotations and what quotations some of them have here, you can look at them, here I have them written, and you will see that this is not in what we call scientific excellence. There is no need for this directive, for which every director must know on his own if he is a good researcher, if he puts it forward, that is fine, otherwise he will investigate and there is no problem here. I think Mr Pavlovich is an extremely good researcher. In that part it is good, in that environment as it is, and the fact is that it is necessary, even when you are a director, to transfer it to those who are in that environment, that of course the other co-workers also do so; and this is one of the problems in our science. In our science, we have completely insufficient self-evaluation. Self-evaluation is when we have to say once what science is and what is not science.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. Dr. Gaber, please. Minister, if you could turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. On the basis of Article 246(2), I would like to propose that the Minister's reply be discussed. The reason for this debate is more than sufficient. In addition, I was convinced of this need by the Minister's vehement interpretation of the power and powerlessness of science, to which nothing is known. He is obviously another of those scientists who believe that if they know their area, they can speak vehemently about all other scientific areas. It would not hurt to discuss this issue too, but I think it would be wise to discuss human resources in the field of science in Slovenia at this point, which shows the symptoms of something that can be continued. It seems that the Ministry and the Minister at its head decided not to take account of what the Agency criteria say; if it finds that the Agency’s criteria do not give the results that are after the year, they will replace the criteria immediately. If he realizes that there are no real people at the head of any institution, then he will send a team there that is prepared, regardless of whether anyone in the academic world accepts it or never accepts it again, these people who do dirty business there for the authorities have closed all the doors to carry out their policy. I, Mr. Minister, the perps who do these dirty jobs don't understand, as I said, they've been disabled in academic circles forever. All those who give of themselves will no longer have any serious business with them. For those of you who have chosen to kneel, life will seem very long; we know that in the scientific circles it is. But I don't understand, Minister, you, you are a prominent name in the field of science, how you can use the same brutal officer logic in this area. And because I don't understand it, I would like to be honest about this here, it's not just about you, it's not about your ministry, it's about the fate of Slovenia, it's about the kneeling science, it's not going to get this country anywhere, and it's time to pour pure wine on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, a replica is not possible now, although this debate has encouraged this to some extent. However, we will also vote on this proposal by Dr Gabra tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This is what we have done with the first round of questions sent. It's another round and with one single question of mags. She rehearsed to the absent Minister of Finance. Please, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Someone has to conclude today's meeting and because public finances are too serious a matter, regardless of the fact that the Minister of Finance has decided to leave the National Assembly, but he wanted to ask an oral question and I expect his answer at the next meeting, perhaps at an extraordinary meeting, so I will make a procedural proposal. The question is: How does it intend to fill the budget hole in the light of the new tax legislation? Maybe the minister's not here today because he went looking for money to close this hole. If he went to look for money to close this hole to European bankers, I believe he will become a European of the year, as he has already become the most frequently visited minister by bankers, but of course he will not be a good finance minister. Before the conclusion of the budget negotiations, there are many different figures in the public deficit, Mr President and Slovenia and Slovenia. The Minister speaks, the government has decided that there will be 73 billion; at the same time, of course, the unimpeded, unimpeded Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Secretary of State at the existing development service warn the Minister of Finance that at least 110 billion additional unknown resources are involved. This is because the government has already taken into account a higher VAT in the 2007 budget, about 1% of the point, which would of course amount to 30 billion. It is clear that the public financial framework foresees 20 additional billions due to various matters such as the glass palace, payment of bills, the congress centre, the protocol centre in Brdo and I do not know what else they will invent in the neighborhood of Gregorčič. It is also known that more money will be allocated to repressive authorities and the expected income and corporate income tax or at least income tax is somewhere between there and 58 billion plus the salary tax, i.e. a total of 110 billion unknown resources. The question is, what is true? Is there a deficit of 73 billion or 183 billion? This does not only affect the state budget. At the level of municipalities, it will be at least 12 to 15 billion, which means that the municipalities would be in deficit for the first time in 2007. Therefore, if the Minister at the next meeting answers the question: "Will this failure simply tax the economy more easily and the effective decision of the economy will increase by more than 100% in view of the period of the Ministry of Marble; will he, of course, be able to give the floor not to raise VAT and that the budget deficit will be only 73 billion?" I want an answer in the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to all government representatives and colleagues, and in particular thank you, ladies and colleagues, for taking so long. Good night. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
