ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the second point will be discussed in the sixth place, and the sixth in the second place. First point in theme list: "Irrelation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, as for Gorka Álvarez Martíez, the legal status of the parliamentary legislature. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? [[Pause]] We'll simply vote the resolution of the union committee except the members of the legislature relating to the judgment. We can vote for the rest of the congress. We can vote. Yeah? It's not working? You've got it in good, haven't you? Well, we'll see for the next time. I'll say yes and we'll see for the next time. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 66; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abscession, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u1	Therefore judgment is approved. Number of points in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the Congressman of the Maddalen Irin team, about the plans of the funk about the funerals that come in the Katalunia. Discipline and final resolution. It's the proposer's turn. Mrs. Irriart, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u2	Mrs. President, thank you. Congressman and ladies, thank you. The government members, good morning, everyone. The situation is already very serious, and the Spanish Government has been willing to do so. We've been seeing him in the last few days, like the heroes who go to war, coming out of several Spanish points, the police and civil guards going to Catalonia, emptying almost the whole of Spain with the police, "ZoA porellos, oé! "while they hear. But we see above all that the civil and political rights of the people of Catalonia are constantly breaking up, and that the extent of their civil and political rights is broken by our civil and political rights. In this situation, we believe this Parliament can't keep quiet. The inhabitants of Catalonia have been summoned to an auto-determination Council after the Parliament had accepted a law for that purpose. Referendum is legitimate and legitimate. It was called by the Government, and received by the Parliament there by a law. The Spanish Government has abolished the letter of the International Human Rights, and within it the Internationall Law of Nature, without having any right to it, without having any right to it. And de facto has abolished the letter of the fundamental rights of the European Union, without even having a right to it. And de facto has disarmed the Queen-Dauphin's Constitution of Spain, without having any right to it, and without any protection from the Spanish Parliament. De facto has abolished the right of self-determination, which is received in international treatises. It has deprived him of the liberty of speech, the freedom of association. He has deprived himself of the right of autonomy which the Spanish Constitution admits, and has forced the letter of the United Nations, which at any moment and in any situation compels him to stake for peace. So, ladies and gentlemen, de facto has undoubtedly given a coup of state. As a matter of fact, this shows the state's defeat. Catalonia has shown that the state is naked, that the State is not clothed in gold and silk, not in democracy, as it happened to the king in that story or fable. And it remains clear to those who do not yet see it, and for the international press, for instance, it is very clear, and for many other democratic representatives international, it is very clear. And as for the briefing of Europe the day before yesterday, for example, it seemed to me very significant, and very bad apothecary to the local spokesman, he had to answer several questions which had no answer. The situation to which the Spanish Government, without the support of its Parliament, is bringing Catalonia, and even the Spanish people themselves, violates the Charter of the United Nations and entails the de facto abolition of the Charter of Human Rights, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It also implies a de facto abolition of the Spanish Constitution itself: it not only violates and attacks the right to self-determination of peoples enshrined in international law, but it has abolished the freedom to express political ideas, that of assembly, that of association, that of the press or of ideological freedom itself, not to mention the right to autonomy of the Spanish Constitution. It is therefore, as I said, de facto, a genuine coup d'état. Not only: the state has not been able, it is not being able to protect hundreds of citizens, hundreds of public officials representing citizens, extreme right-wing groups, to whom it is absolutely lax. In the whole world there are more and more institutions and people who are consolidating against democracy: The Nobel prizers, many mayors of all Europe, on the same day of Istanbul, I believe, have at last been the mayor of Dublin, who has at last given his opinion, a deputy of European Parliament, the President of the European Union, and Prime Minister of Italy, of Great Britain, Denmark, and Estonia parliaments, as well as the Government of Hungary.... Wave. Consequently, it is plain that it is growing larger and larger, and the attack which the Spanish State exercises upon the fundamental principles of democracy is still greater. And the greater the attack, the greater is the answer derived from democratic countries. And in the presence of this situation, we believe that the Basque People must stake openly, and that they must wager against the side and evolution of democracy. As I said a week ago, it's not just independence or not. It seems to me that the question is whether democracy or not is at this moment at stake, and that's what makes the Basque People do directly. Unfortunately, few people in the Basque Country were surprised at the Spanish Government attitude, because we've met here with the two closed newspapers and radios. They had closed off from night to morning without explaining anything, and a few years later the judges said they had no fault at all, but they were closed. Against the recommendations of the United Nations and the European Council, thousands of people have been incommunicable. Here are the tortures. So he didn't surprise us so much. Thus, although the Basque People in this Parliament, in this country, bet for an independent State, what we ask to do today is not an attitude towards the independence of Catalonia, which is something that Catalan has to decide, and they have a chance to vote for it on Sunday. That's not it. What we are asking here today is that this parliament bet for democracy, show protection to the people of Catalonia, the right to decide by men of Catalonia, and to accuse the democratic involutation which the State of Spain is doing. That means, we're supposed to be offering full support to the refendum that they want to do on Sunday. During the last few days we have seen in the decision of a prosecution, not by the decision of a judge, but by the decision of a prosecution, which is already about to turn things round a little, but by the decision of a prosecution, that the police of Catalonia may be subject to the Ministry of Interior in Spain. We have seen in the last few days that a company like Correus may leave thousands of magazines, because the contents seemed to some one suspicious. We have seen in the past few days that the books of the libraries in Catalonia have been blocked, and that even the case of scientists in scientific research against cancer has been locked up by the Spanish Government. And seeing these, in truth, the conclusion is quite clear: An attorney decides that the edge can be ruled by the Civil Guard today. The library of the Archaba, Bizkai, and Gipuzata, may remain unrecorked from night to morning. By the decision of the Spanish Government, our research centers may be deprived of finance at the present moment, because if the Spanish Government decides this way, it is something that can happen. We have seen that in Catalonia neither the protection of Parliament in Spain nor the judiciary decision was possible in order to make it possible. The American institutions have been decided, and their decisions have been abandoned. And I wonder if that's the legality we're talking about here. And besides, it's not important. The problem, as I said last Thursday, is structured, as has been shown for centuries, and the modern political actors, as the principal Spanish political actors of the present day. It is impossible, therefore, to continue to look elsewhere. Not only because history will judge us, but so will history. But especially the Basque citizens, and in this case Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzicus, are in need of protection. Because they can't be without protection. Today, our motion in hand is the result of an interpelation to the government for three months. Then the government required discretion from the President. He said he didn't know what the government of Catalonia would do, not what the Spanish Government would do. Unfortunately, what we thought has happened in the Spanish Government. There was no lack of ser el orcasulo de Delfos para saber cuál iba a ser actud del Stado. Because we know him, because he's been repeated over and over again. Hence we say by this means, that the law of the Euslunia gives support and respect to the refeendum which the Parliament of Catalonia will perform, because it is a free citizen's will to build the most effective instrument for any people and collective future. By this means we say, that the Eusunian law rejects the Spanish Government, as well as any other instance, against the referendum, and any measure which may be taken against the decision of Parliament and democracy, and which he has already taken. And the legislature calls the Basque People and the Basque Institutions to maintain its procactive and respectful attitude towards the refendum which is to be performed in Catalonia. That's what our motion demands. On the other hand, the Basque People, as the inhabitants of Catalonia hope, that the 28 countries of the European Union and its Governments, the European Houses, the European Boards, and the Councils of Europe, should be able to secure the inhabitants of Catalonia every day, but in a very exact manner, on the 1st of October, all the rights which the letter of the fundamental rights of the European Union acknowledges. The right of dignity, which is collected in article 1. The right of liberty, 6. the liberty of thinking, which is collected in the article 10. The liberty of representation and information, which is assembled at 11. The liberty of association, and the right of not being dissecting, especially because it is a member of a national minority, 21. in the article. Therefore, our proposal today is a proposition for human rights. The Catalonia, the world, and especially the Basque People, who let us see where and who we're going to join. And there are only two options: or against democracy, the State of Spain, or for democracy, with the people of Catalonia. By the way, I'd like to take a chance to send a hug to all the women and men. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, your decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u4	Good morning, congressmen. "This is no longer of independence, yes or no, but of defending rights or freedoms." That's what the Mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, was talking about last Sunday at the public office assembly we had in Zaragoza. Today, in Euskade, the time for a conference and agreement in this legislature, is the time to talk about the need for a thorough development of democracy. When there is a crisis in democracy, we have to explain that affairs are solved with more democracy, and that it is not possible to solve with the notions of freedom. All this has not begun a few weeks ago with the repression of fundamental rights by the People's Party Government, nor with the least curious passing of the Transitional Act in Parliament. We've come all this way for an countless pile of misconceptions. We must go back to the Statute of 2006, the one that was brushed in Congress by the irresponsible and suicidal gathering of signatures of the People's Party; to that constitutional sentence that was out of date; but, above all, to the refusal of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to give no political response to seven years of peaceful and constant mobilizations of millions of Catalans and Catalans. Things haven't been right. It's impossible not to see it. It is impossible not to see him listening to Ada Colau talking about the uncertainty that produced in much of Catalan society and Barcelona what was happening. And it's true that we don't feel at ease at the Port of Barcelona, there are so many Ferrys full of police, how the Civil Guard comes out of many places, 'You're a porellos!' "heard that, don't you? We're not at ease with that either. What a big misconception! What a lack of democratic culture! What an absolute irresponsibility of a government what it is doing is to blemish such things! The Government of the People's Party is ashamed. Shame that it is a nest of corrupt people, and that it does not have the slightest democratic cascade and gives it the same to drag the entire State into a crisis of great proportions so as to remain stuck in power. What a state of democratic culture! How can there be a government that approves such things? The Government of the Populative Party is a disgrace at this moment, because it is full of corruption, and because it is anti-democratic, and because it does not care to carry the whole State to a deep crisis, if it maintains its power. And, all of this being true, it is also true that today we cannot talk about a referendum on 1 October. We cannot talk about a referendum, because it is not being allowed to develop normally, but also because it does not challenge all Catalans, despite the fact that it is going to be a very large, huge and, above all, peaceful citizen mobilization. A mobilization of citizenship that wants nothing but to be able to express itself. These citizens are only willing to give their opinion about the land. And they must have all right and power to give their opinion about the land, or about any subject. This citizenship must have all the capacity and power to express its will regarding the territorial framework. Because it's not just about them being able to do it either. Above all, they must do so without the risk of a social and conflict fracture, either within Catalonia or with the rest of the state. Today it is necessary to say that we are experiencing the failure of politics, but not by raising complex issues, but by showing that our institutions, governments and parties do not want to sit down or talk or dialogue. That is failure, and not the issue that is put on the table today. It is also necessary to state that the State of 79, the autonomous State, had its meaning, but that it is now showing clear signs of exhaustion. It's not about questioning where we came from or why things were done that way. They were made, and point, and have yielded with a reasonable result. But forty years later in some territories there is a concern among citizens for power and for wanting to change that framework, and it needs to be addressed naturally and normally. The Constitution is not a dogma of faith or a Bible, it cannot be. It's an instrument and it's a tool. It's like when you get your clothes small, you have to change it even though it's served you up to that point. I mean, now it's time to do something like that. We have to rethink the rules, and in that work from Elkarrekin We have made a concrete proposal this Saturday. A proposal that is designed for Euskadi, but which we also believe can also serve other territories, such as Catalonia. We made a proposal and made a proposal to change these tools. And we believe that our proposition is not only useful to the Basque, but also to the Catalunia. It is a question of articulating the right to decide following Canada's reference, with a law of clarity, so that there are legal and bilateral channels for citizens to express themselves. Yesterday we read that the prosecutor and judge emeritus of the Supreme Court, Mr Martín Pallin, is promoting precisely this same solution. It was also confirmed by other law experts and constitutionalists in their own self-government paper. I dare say that, if this House really wants to do something useful for the situation in Catalonia, the best thing it could do is to reach agreement on the terms of that clarity pact, to urge the Congress of Deputies to pass such a law, as was done at the time in Canada. And why do I make this statement? For, simply, because when one reads the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu, then, one remains with the feeling that it is a toast to the sun, because one also has the strange feeling of seeing the Basque Nationalist Party summon a demonstration against the state of emergency imposed in Catalonia by the Rajoy government itself of which they are the only and strongest support. Even this week, in which we finally hear that the budgets of the People's Party for 2018 in Spain are not going to be supported, it is supported by the People's Party to take out Gasteiz's budgets, and today, without blushing, they vote in favour of Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal. And also because one is puzzled by the fact that the plurinationality that led Pedro Sánchez back to the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party has disappeared these weeks. Because the Socialist Party, far from showing some greater sensitivity with the cuts in the freedoms of the People's Party and the violations of rights we see day after day, does what it does is silence and silence again. It is that today the situation in Catalonia is brought back to this House, after last week we reached an agreement for a declaration between three parties that we have a great majority, and in that declaration we very strongly criticized the repression of the People's Party, and at the same time we reaffirmed the demand for respect for the will of Catalan citizens. But today the text that is brought is another, it is another and it has another purpose. And I began by explaining that, in the words of Ada Colau herself, this was not of independence, yes or no, but rather of freedoms and rights. Well, today, the text that is brought in, that Bildu brings, with all the legitimacy of the world in fact, is to propose support for the Catalan process, and it does so with a very clear purpose, that is that we have to position ourselves on this issue in terms of with one another or with another, of white or black. Here we know enough of that, as we also know of the accusation of equidistance that so much is blamed these days between many parties. But, well, we don't get into this dynamic. We affirm that it is time to move from the dynamics of the clash of legitimacy and the clash of trains; that it is time for policy, and for a policy of hope to open dialogue and to open the agreement to prevent the situation from getting worse. To open legal avenues for Catalan and Basque citizenship to express itself. We're not going to get into this dynamic. At the moment, this dynamic is the time to change and it's the time of politics. The moment to open the paths of the conversation, the moment to open the routes of the agreement, before the situation gets worse. And these legitimate roads must be opened, both the people of Catalonia and the Basque villages may be able to give their opinion. And today we, Elkarrekin Podemos, are going to abstain, but not because we find ourselves indifferent, but because we want to show clearly that in this country, in Euskadi, and also in Catalonia, and also in Madrid, and also in the rest of the state, there is another way; that there are solutions, and that the train crash is not inevitable. And this path goes through four clear principles. The first: an identification must be broken, that of the Government of the State with the Government of the People's Party. It's not the same. Manuela Carmena, the municipalities of change, the 15M, the marches of dignity, the fight against social cuts or evictions show that there is also a different perspective and a different path that is opening up throughout the State. The second principle: that the strategy of no, of threats, of judicialization..., and regardless of what everyone thinks, today we can say that the strategy of the People's Party has not only not solved the situation, but has made it worse, complicated it. Thirdly, we must bet on more democracy and not more confrontation in order to solve this problem. More dialogue and agreements are needed, and negotiations have not yet opened today. It hasn't even opened! And the fourth principle: that we are in time for things not to get any worse; that there will be a 1st October because many Catalan citizens so want it, and it doesn't matter the police or the Civil Guard that is sent, because this will come true. And there will also be a 2nd October, a 3rd October and a 4th October, and we will continue to need to talk, dialogue and agree. It is necessary to break the dynamics that have been imposed so far, dynamics in which the majority of Basque and Catalan citizens and Spanish citizens are neither comfortable nor recognized at these extremes, nor consider them useful to solve the problems. Today we abstain from the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu to point out that the problems are not going to be solved by choosing either side; they are going to be solved by building a shared project that recognizes plurality, recognizes nations, recognizes shared sovereignty, and recognizes free adherence. A project built from respect, from fraternity and from coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u5	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u6	Thank you, President. Well, we start this plenary today with a change in the agenda that Bildu has proposed, and that, among other things, leaves it very clear what Bildu's real priorities are: the claims of the independenceists stand ahead of other issues that affect essential public services, such as education. But that is the true background to the ideology that Bildu represents in this House. In addition, we have lost sight of the times in this Parliament that solidarity with the Catalan independenceists is being shown for the umpteenth time. And I say it well: with the Catalan independenceists. We have lost count, but we have come to hear exactly the same thing, the same positions, the same differences, every Thursday and every two Friday, in addition to those that arise also in different committees of this Parliament, which are not lacking. And my group does not remember that in any of those pronouncements there has been a single solution, Mrs Iriarte. Not one. We see once again that what brings us is a proposal of part. I do not know very well why they signed three groups last week a statement, to which Mr Martínez referred, if in ten days they have to bring it back, this time with a different content and orientation. If they were consistent with what they were saying there, they should have had enough of that pronouncement of nationalists addressed to nationalists. Because that is, naked of clothes, what the proposing group proposes: remembering part of the Catalans. And the socialists want to remember everyone, the nationalists and the non-nationalists, who are at least as important in Catalonia as each other. Because they are all at risk of their civil and social rights, because the legal limbo, Mrs Iriarte, is a risk to the rights of all. We have already said that we feel close to them, because Euskadi and Catalonia are, the two, plural societies, with different feelings, and that we have shared our history in the project of the whole of Spain. And because the Basque Socialists and those from all over Spain have a real concern, what we are putting on the table are going to be proposals for a solution. We propose to open channels of dialogue, of that which has been lacking, of that which have annihilated those who in the past promoted the aggravation that so many Catalans feel (and here yes, independentists and non-independentists); of that dialogue that did not exist during the years in which the absolute majority laminated the channels of encounter between different, which long identified Catalan society. From that dialogue which those who did not really want dialogue renounced, because what they were looking for were excuses for pushing a unilateral and illegal process. The Basque Socialists speaking to Catalonia cannot help but look at Euskadi, and what we see is that we are right who a year ago decided to channel our differences through a shared project to solve problems and not to create them. And because we know this is why we signed in November last year, not in the spirit of being anyone's mirror, and we ratified what has allowed us that channel: dialogue, agreement, the guarantee of plurality and the law, in Catalonia and in Euskadi. The proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu brings us contains none of that. Neither dialogue, because what it supports is a process that has failed even to listen to the Catalan parliamentary representatives who oppose this path; nor agreement, because the path, as they proclaim, is unilateral; nor plurality, because it clearly excludes a very important part of Catalan society, with which it does not sympathize, because it still does not remember so many mayors who are being pointed out, so many houses of the people being attacked, so many socialist militants insulted by the street (with them it does not sympathize); nor law, because, let us say what we say, what has been done is out of the law. It may be legitimate, but it's not legal. Therefore, because the arguments are heard here, I want to put a voice to something that perhaps has not been heard enough, the voice of my Catalan colleagues. And I'm going to read his position, which we make our own. "Point 1. The relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain is an unresolved issue since 2010, when the Constitutional Court altered the Statute voted by the Catalans in 2006. The reckless attitude of the PP contributed decisively to the dynamite of a reasonable agreement. "Two. The governments of Catalonia and Spain have since been unable to establish a serious dialogue to deal with this issue. "Three. The Catalan Government and the independent majority supporting it have opted for a unilateral and illegal approach. It must be remembered here that the Rules of Parliament, the rights of the opposition, the Statute of Catalonia and the Spanish Constitution have already been violated by this order. This unilateral and illegal path is doomed to failure, and involves the action of the powers of the State to prevent the holding of a referendum that is considered illegal not by the Socialist Party: by the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia, by the Council of State Guarantees of Catalonia, by the Constitutional Court and by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. "Five. We are opposed to the collision of trains that others minimized, and we continue to defend another path, that of dialogue, negotiation and the pact; an approach that unfortunately has not been attended to, and the collision of trains from which we warned has arrived. "Six. Political dialogue remains the only way out of this dead end for Catalonia to win in self-government, win in financing, and for Spain to become a federal state. The pact we are proposing should culminate in a federal constitutional reform that is subject to the citizenship vote. The Barcelona declaration contains the essential elements of our proposal, and we welcome the agreement in the Congress of Deputies to set up a parliamentary committee to address these issues. "Seventh. At the moment we call on the governments of Catalonia and Spain to stop an escalation that leads us all to disaster. The solution to the problem of the relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain will not come from the hands of the courts, but respect for legality obliges us all. The determination of the State to prevent the holding of an illegal referendum cannot in any case limit the political debate and the rights enshrined in the Constitution. "Eight. That is why we call on the Government of Catalonia to renounce the organisation of an illegal referendum, and this resignation makes possible the immediate opening of a process of dialogue and negotiation to which all the Catalan and Spanish political forces are called. We call on the Government of Spain to give a political response to a political problem, and not to demand that the State's only response to this problem be given by the judiciary. Presidents Puigdemont and Rajoy must do today what they should have done months ago, talk. "Nine. We are committed to helping to find a democratic and agreed solution to the problems raised, and we want to involve all institutions and parties in making positive contributions in that direction. "And ten. We call for serenity and calm. Democratic institutions have an obligation to find a way out of the open conflict we are experiencing, and they must not transfer the solution to the problem to citizens. Catalans and Catalans have guaranteed their rights, and Catalonia as a country their autonomy; only the interference in a unilateral and illegal way can put us in jeopardy. We call on the governments of Catalonia and Spain to start the dialogue immediately, the only way, we reiterate, to resolve this issue." All this is what a part of Catalonia is saying too, and we never hear that they take into account those who want to make that community a uniform reality that it is not. It has cost us so much to gain spaces of freedom that guarantee plurality in Euskadi, that we want to claim it also in Catalonia. And I end up with an idea that we're going to reiterate until they get tired of listening to us. The Socialists confirm that the commitment we made in Euskadi to the agreement between different people and respect for the rules is one of the best investments that can be made in Basque coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing the crews that had no correction, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u8	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Counselors, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that, as Mr Pastor said, this is not a new debate, and quite rightly it will not be the last of the debates we have on this subject in this Parliament. But it is also true – and this is almost bitter – that every passing week it becomes more difficult to discuss these matters with serenity. And it becomes difficult because one has the feeling that words are getting thicker, that words are getting more and more absolute, that political pronouncements are getting less and less space so that there can be a calm debate and that, in any case, we can find points of understanding. And in this way – we have seen it, we have just heard it – the interventions are plagued by those thick words and those absolutes. State coup, state of emergency, violation of human rights, Charter of the United Nations, dictatorship, traitors, no matter the police, no matter the law... And with these limbs it is with those we have to make a basket, but you are making the situation very difficult. In addition, then there is also a will, legitimate in politics, but that with these issues seems to us to be an aberration, a will to wear out the opponent, and crossfires, political interests that take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid to wear out the other: We can with a speech against Bildu because they play with a space also intended, Bildu against the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party we will see what it says... In other words, in the end a melé in which some feel extraordinarily comfortable, because the worse, but a melé, in short, that is not very upbuilding. And the reality is that only those who are willing to break the law, only those who are willing to commit a crime, are able to confuse the prevention of a crime with the violation of rights. And this, in short, is something we are facing. Because, Mrs. Iriarte, I think your vision of law is foolish, and we just had a chance to hear it. Because the subjective reality, regardless of the assessments we make, is that you ask us, calls on this House, for support and respect for a referendum convened on 6 and 7 September through the adoption of a law of transitionality and a law of referendum for which each and every one of the legal requirements laid down in the Parliament of Catalonia has been missed. And you ask us to show our support for this. You are asking us, Bildu brings us here and summons us here to show support and support for a decision of the Parliament of Catalonia that missed the procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia; a decision that – they have already listed – had the opposition of the Council of Guarantees itself; approved in the Parliament of Catalonia itself, which had the opposition of the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia itself, and which therefore leaves without any respect the parliamentary procedure, the parliamentary groups and the rights that assist parliamentarians. And this is what you are asking us to support and support. And this is a real nonsense, the approach that makes us in this case EH Bildu. And all this, those plenary sessions on 6 and 7 September, the late 6 and 7 September, the shameful plenary that we all had the opportunity to see through television, with a parliamentary majority representing 47.8% of the electoral census in Catalonia. 47.8% of the electoral census (which does not represent 2 million of the census in Catalonia, when the census is 5,500,000) has led Catalans to this situation. And you ask us that this violation of civil and political rights that also assist the citizens of Catalonia be shown the support and accession, that we show you respect for this violation of civil and political rights that assist the citizens of Catalonia and that were raped with light and stenographers by the independenceists in Catalonia. But, of course, not a word about this. The vision, the objective, the target, against the People's Party government. They passed the Law on Transition and Referendum with a majority that would not even allow them to reform the Statute of Autonomy itself, with a majority that would not even allow them to reform the Catalan Electoral Law! It does not allow them to approve, that majority would not allow them to approve or amend the Statute of Autonomy itself, and they call the Catalans irresponsiblely to a referendum of independence. And these are the ones who talk about democracy, these are the ones who talk about civil rights, and these are the ones who talk about the will of understanding and agreement. The reality is that for a long time, indeed, but with particular virulence in recent weeks, in the last month, the nationalists, the independenceists in Catalonia, the separatists, have intended to suspend the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy in Catalonia, to suspend the civil rights that assist Catalan citizens. And the answer that some of you give, the approach that some of you offer, is that, in the face of this absolute violation, the government of a democratic and legal state such as Spain, the institutions of that democratic and legal state, should have done away with their duties, should have abandoned Catalan citizens to the fate that the independenceists in Catalonia have decided for them. And before this we cannot show our support and support. It's a top-notch political irresponsibility. But in the second point EH Bildu proposes to us "reject any measure against the referendum and the decision of Parliament". I mean, don't comply with the law. That is, not to comply with court decisions. In other words, leave it to the turn government's discretion when it applies or when the law does not apply. And then when does the law apply? With this precedent being established in Catalonia, who decides when a rule, fundamental or not, is binding on the public authorities? The President of the Generalitat, the Lehendakari on duty, the President of the Government, a parliament with a majority of 47.8%? Where is the trust and security in a State governed by the law and the rules that we have set up to ensure that we all play with the same rules and with the same capacity? Where are they? What's it supposed to be? An assembly state?, a state in which it is the public authorities that decide, arbitrarily, when a law is applicable, when judges are to act, when prosecutors are to act, when judges are to rule? Is that the politician on duty? Is that the society you intend to build? Is that the society to which you claim that this House, that the Government of Spain, that Spanish society, that Catalan society itself give the applause and support and support? Is that really what they're asking us here? And on the third point, you ask us to "maintain a proactive and respectful attitude towards this referendum". And this is an extraordinarily serious part too, because everyone has the perfect right and legitimacy – because we are in a free state, in a democratic state and in a state of law, in which everyone can manifest himself in whatever terms he wants – everyone has the perfect right to feel and act according to that feeling, but to pretend to embark on the institutions, on the institutions that offer what he said before, stability and trust and legal security, to pretend to embark on a path like this is, as he said before, a misunderstanding and irresponsibility. But it is no less true that some are already doing so. This Saturday a demonstration has been convened in Euskadi; a demonstration that seeks to support, endorse and support in the streets this nonsense that I have just enumerated, and you already have the support: the Basque Nationalist Party joins that demonstration. It's a qualitative leap, it's true. Congratulations, EH Bildu, you have managed to get the Basque Nationalist Party into that dangerous, uncertain path, and certainly final uncertainty. And that will of contagion that many have, that will of contagion that what is happening in Catalonia has a political and social expression in Euskadi... We have an immense responsibility that we have another model of coexistence, another model of relationship and another respect for institutions. And you have violated him. You're accepting the contagion. They are allowing that example, which is currently offered by politics in Catalonia, to reach Euskadi. And we say to them, especially to the Basque Nationalist Party (especially to the Basque Nationalist Party), that they do not allow, that they do not give wings, that they do not open the crease and the door to which Euskadi is infected with something that is not edifying, and that way of understanding politics, that way of managing institutions and understanding the law, and therefore the rules of coexistence of which we have endowed ourselves. Look, I think Euskadi... We advocate that understanding and agreement is positive. Not that it is positive for politicians or institutions, but it is positive and reasonable and upbuilding for citizens themselves. That agreement that allows us, you know, to leave some hair in the cateran, one and the other, so that through the points of understanding we can continue to move forward. Institutional stability, which allows for political stability, generates social stability and economic development. And this is the formula of success. When we are overcoming the darkest stage of the recent history of Euskadi, marked by violence, marked by confrontations, marked by lack of communication, by social confrontation, by families who stopped talking, by friends who separated, when we are overcoming it, it turns out that some pretend that the Catalan example – which we already know, that we already know what it brings, and it is not good, is not very positive and not very upbuilding – returns to Euskadi. We will vote that no to this initiative, of course, and what we are asking of all the groups in the House, with special singularity to the Basque Nationalist Party, is that they do not allow Euskadi to become infected (nor politics, nor Basque society) with this uneducating example that the independenceists of Catalonia are giving us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u10	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We shall vote for the motion which the Basque People have represented, the motion which is summed up in three points, and the rest, as has been shown by the spokesman of Irries in Maddalen, because these three points have been mentioned in our near discussions, sometimes voted. And when the referendum is in the midst of the veterinary, I think it is very accurate to show our protection and respect in the presence of the agreements received by the institution of Catalonia, that the citizens may freely explain their will from the referendum. And the government, used by the Spanish Government... We shall see in the near future what it does before October 1st and beyond it, but it is evident that these conducts and decisions are beyond democracy. And the people of euscal respect and provocative attitude... That's what we're asking for. I think there's a terrible lack underneath it. Why at the present moment, it is always mentioned, and the Socialists of the party bring a certain testimony here, the opinion of their fellow-citizens in Catalonia is a wager for conversation."The wager for the union within the law," is said. And Puigdemont sent a letter to Rajoy in May, and Rajoy answered, didn't he? And in the end Puigdemont tells him that he wants to make an agreement, that is to say, from a proposal which may be lawful and compact, to question the people. And Rajoy answers: "Yes, I am prepared for the interview, but you cannot question the superfluous Spanish. And I won't get any interviews, if that's what's going to happen." That's the borders. I think, speaking clearly, there are two superfluous ones: the one with all right, the other apparently in the hands of law and right. When a collision arises, if conversation finds a way to solve it, it must be in equality and equality. There is no solution, there will be no solution if I say to you, "I can't question all of you as well as yours, you don't have the right to have too much." That's the planning and there's the political conflict. And that's what you have to deal with. Therefore, when the Parliament of Catalonia has decided... And, Mr. Sémper, it's true that on September 6 and 7 sessions were seen by everyone, but the whole truth is true. A year and a half before, the law of refrendum and the law of "de transitoridad" had been attempted in poncia, in front of a white folio. And the planning itself, that is to say, thought itself, was transferred to the Constitutional, saying that what these opposite political parties said could not even be discussed in the Parliament. A year and a half ago, a year and a half before. Whether, then, they were admitted in this express way, it requires cynicism, that is to say, a political party, who has kept similar attitudes, led them to the court, every time, to the Constitution, and then to say: "No, no, you didn't do this the best way." The same thoughts are denied the right to develop Catalan, thought, or political projects. So what Katalunia's doing now is a direct question to the people. Answer me, that's what Catalan wants to get. At last, where is the danger? Old Catalan, young man, women, what will they wear on Sunday? A smile on his lips and a scarf in his hands. Where's the peigrosity? What harm does democracy do if its citizens vote? Then the governor will see how he manages it. What we say is, that in this management the ruler, who governs, ought to give way to what the people accept by a majority. But what was the answer? The negative, the bad treatment, the humiliation, which has multiplied, multiplied, certainly multiplied, and the emotion. And politics is an emotion, and there will be many rational things, but politics is an emotion in a great percentage. Feelings and emotions cannot be imposed, feelings cannot be imposed, they must be respected. Feelings of belonging cannot be imposed, we must respect! Feelings cannot be removed, you have to respect! And if we use channels that inexorably lead to abuse and collective humiliation there is no other answer, there is no better answer than to exercise dignity: personal dignity, collective dignity, political dignity, democratic dignity. And that is the axis of this matter or of this question. I used to say in Basque: Really, where do we have the problem (we have, because we also have a problem)? If there is no equality of political conditions with regard to rights that assist national identities, the permanent appeal to dialogue has a ceiling. If one part of the prevalence or pre-eminence of sovereignty, in this case Spanish, indivisible, indissoluble, and offers a dialogue to a political community like Catalonia, or as may be Euskadi, who feels political and legal subject, as a people with the right to decide, what channel of dialogue can be used, explored, which can be fruitful, if imposed, from the previous Spanish position, the imposition of that indissoluble sovereignty? Therefore, also, when we call for dialogue, let us say exactly where that dialogue has its limits. Because dialogue within the law is what that majority imposes. Combining the democratic principle is impossible. Because even conjugating the democratic principle, which gives legitimacy to certain political positions that are democratically manifested seek a channel of projection and concreteness, conjugating the democratic principle, one can still find a path of dialogue that can enable these agreements, but if the democratic principle is not accepted and is imposed, simply, as is intended in Catalonia, military manu... All we have to do is exhibit...! I have once said this, because already with all the security forces of the State towards Catalonia, riding what is being mounted, remembers that inscription that had the cannons of the kings: Ultima ratio regum. "Last reason of kings": strength. And the force won't solve anything. And the appeal to dialogue, if that possibility of democratic principle does not unfold, democratic legitimacy that makes possible the corresponding legal changes... Legal frameworks themselves, if they do not solve problems, are not worth much. They have to be used to solve problems. And the adequacy has to be from that framework, from that legal or legal framework, to the free and democratic will expressed, in this case by the people of Catalonia through the citizens next Sunday, I repeat, with a smile on the mouth, or on the lips, and a ballot in the hand. What a danger!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u12	Look, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. The referendum is not illegal, because in the Spanish State calling a referendum is not a crime. They like it more or less, it is not in the Penal Code, and this in particular has not even been declared unconstitutional. And read also the international treaties, ladies and gentlemen. I do not tell you that everyone, but at least the most important ones, which, I remind you, are also part of Spanish legislation. For example, read article 1 (only article 1) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which in its adoption by Spain bears the signature of King Juan Carlos de Borbón and the then foreign minister, Marcelino Oreja. And read it, because it says that "all peoples have the right to self-determination, and by virtue of this right they freely establish their political status and also provide for their economic, social and cultural development". Mr. Semper, tell me what are the hairs I have to leave on the catera and what are the hairs that you will leave on the catera. Tell me about that. You're talking about defending legality. The lehendakari Urkullu remembered it last Thursday: the Statute of Gernika is an organic law that has been unfulfilled for forty years. I will not remind you of the Party Financing Act, because all the treasurers of your party have been prosecuted or imputed. And tomorrow morning I think they're going to skip the law that forces them to submit the draft budgets before October 1st. By which you skip all the laws, perhaps less that of gravity. But they also fail to comply with their sacred texts, including the Spanish Constitution: websites, newspapers, etc. are closed. You have given the bank 40 billion euros from the taxpayers of this state, about 900 euros for every citizen of the Spanish state, so don't talk to me about legality. Your mission is to have it and leave it all tied up and well tied up. It was clearly stated here in Bilbao by Mr García-Margallo, when he said that a terrorist attack could be carried out, but the unity of Spain was irreversible. And breaking the unity of Spain was irreversible, with which it is clear what its order of priorities is. Mr. Pastor, when you talk about your colleagues you forget some of your colleagues. Because one of your colleagues, in surveys that we were able to see this week, therefore, feel that the actions of the prosecutor and other actions that have taken place this week are, of course, not to your liking, and are a great majority. In any case, Mr Pastor, your party is responsible for all this that is happening, insofar as Zapatero said that he was going to respect what came out of the Catalan Parliament, then we saw Alfonso Guerra saying that he was delighted to brush it for him, and now Pedro Sánchez and all of you, well, on the side of a government whose behavior is absolutely undemocratic. And on the day the Catalan Parliament passes the referendum law, they run to the Spanish Congress to ask for a commission to study the territorial reform, which seems very good to me, but it comes eight years late from the brushing, let's say, and seven years after the ruling of the Constitutional Court. As for the insults, I repeat what I said last week, but I will ask you a question: What do you tell me about the insults that the other side receives? Mr. Lander Martínez, the Referendum Law is a law approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. If, then, we do not wish ours to be dissolved by our own institutions, we must also give him all the value he has. The State of Spain is no longer an interlocator, because it has interrupted all the interlocutions. He's no longer an interlocator, and in a few days he'll be Catalonia himself for everything that's going to be negotiated by a potential interlocutor and probably from Europe. What is time for politics and dialogue? I remind you, Mr Martínez, that Catalonia has come to the present situation after having requested eighteen (eightteen) times a referendum on the state. You know that it is not possible for a referendum to be agreed, because the Government of Spain does not want it. He's made it very clear. Then do not tell me that I make toast to the sun. I'm trying to make it clear what's going on. You brought a T-shirt last week in favor of democracy. For today is the day to stand up for democracy, or to stand up for those who are against democracy. And if tomorrow or past you go to the demonstration that calls Gure Esku Dago, you have no problem voting in favour of this motion. And to Mr. Egibar, I shall say that I am grateful to him for the vote that Jeltter of the Eucan Party will vote for this motive; the difference is that we have some differences, but that we shall find places and places to go to the table and examine them, because we have set them before us. But a village is waiting for us, and a village is waiting for us with our people, women, and men, with their social agents, with all the sects that form the people. And I think that we are finishing and performing an historic moment in Catalonia, as well as in the Basque Country, even in Europe, and that it is important for us to send our message from this parliament today, and the vote we shall be able to send. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Europe lives the most significant days in its close history, and that all the people of Basque villages and Basques are to be shown the highest level these days, and I am sure we will show the highest grade. And I hope that the Basque parliament will be the first parliament in the world who will confess the Republic of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u14	Well, I've started quoting Ada Colau before, and now I'm going to start quoting Manuela Carmena, who is mayor of Madrid but who is also a judge in this case. And I think it also makes it very clear to me what is the need to use politics, what is the need to use democratic tools and not to judicialize any political process taking place in a country. And I'm going to quote her: "You can't sue half a society. Criminal law does not apply when it extends to a social group which in this case also wants to express itself. Social majorities cannot be repressed with the prosecutor's office." Mr Semper said that there are always thicker words in this debate, and it would be good for this same Mr Semper to tell his party, or to tell his government, or to tell the prosecutors, because the truth is that in this case there is no lesson to be given, with what we are seeing these weeks. Today, it is again evident that there is a blockade in this House on some issues on which we do not want to move forward, on which there is a little lack of dialogue as well. I have already said this before, we do not want to enter into this dynamic, and we will continue to demand the need for dialogue and agreements, as we did on Sunday in Zaragoza. We will continue to put alternatives on the table, such as the clarity pact, a model of Canadian inspiration; a negotiated, bilateral model that is valid in Euskadi and that we also believe is valid in Catalonia. Because we do believe that the State is reformable, because, as I said earlier, there is a difference between the Government of the State and the Government of the People's Party. The People's Party is probably not reformable, the People's Party is probably stuck in that position and will not change, but the State is reformable, and it is clear that at this time in Congress we have a third of the House that is in favour of the right to decide, that it is in favour of seeking democratic paths, that it is in favour of progress on these issues and of dialogue. The Government of the People's Party is not a valid interlocutor, but the Government of the State may be a valid interlocutor. What's going on? That is a very good argument for his position, which is legitimate, that it is that of wanting to achieve independence with a basic approach of the non-reformable State. I don't ask you to give up your ideal. I'm not asking you to say anything... I don't tell you that independence is impossible, I don't ask you to give up your ideal. Don't ask me, don't you say that my ideal is impossible. I do believe that the state is reformable, and I think that is possible. That is why we insist: if this House wants to be useful today to help resolve Catalonia's problems, it is better to stop toasting to the sun and work on an agreement for this law of clarity, bilateral, agreed and, of course, with the right to decide. That is why we reaffirm ourselves more, if possible, in this abstention; to point out graphically, with the vote, to show with this abstention that there are not only two positions in the debate, two blocs (or with the process or without the process, with one or with another), but that there are nuances within this question. There is a path of political hope, of dialogue, of agreement, of building shared projects, of fraternity, of solidarity, of co-operanias and of free accession, as I have said. And we are also going on Saturday to mobilization because we believe that at this moment, when democratic freedoms are put in check, when we suffer violations of rights, not only in Catalonia, but throughout the state, it is necessary to mobilize itself, in fact, it is necessary to go out on the street. And that doesn't have to mean agreeing to the process or even agreeing on how the law of the referendum was dealt with (we don't agree with it, but, well, I'm not going to go into that debate), but it is necessary to go out on the street to show that we are in no way going to allow the violations of rights to continue, and that we really need dialogue, that we really need democratic means to be able to move forward in the resolution of this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u15	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u16	Well, Mrs Iriarte said in her first speech: "There is no democracy in Spain and there is no democracy in Catalonia". And, honestly, it's something that I've heard you say, that you said it when the police stopped at ETA's command, that you said it when the judges condemned ETA terrorists for committing murders... They also said the same words. And, therefore, sincerely, I give the same validity to these as to those you said at that other time. And I am very concerned that you are so concerned about the violation of the Spanish Constitution at the moment. I'm surprised by that constitutional fervor on the part of Bildu. But you know that what happens in Catalonia is something very different from what you define, because the leaders of the Government of Catalonia knew perfectly well that they were committing an illegality, and knew perfectly well what consequences it could bring. And what happens when the law fails is that consequences are sometimes undesirable. What can be asked, and that is what we ask, is intelligence and proportionality in implementing the measures set out in the law. Not that the law is not enforced. I know you don't like it, because you don't recognize that legislation, but it seems to us that democracy, which is rights, is also rules, is also law. And when the rules, the rules, disappear, democracy itself resents, here and anywhere else in the world. And it will allow me to discuss the largest: there is no international law, there is no right of secession, let alone unilateral. Nor is there the right of self-determination, read with all the precepts laid down in the United Nations declaration, which can be applied neither to Euskadi nor to Catalonia. I don't say that, any expert in international law says that. Another thing is that everyone wants to take the radish by the leaves, and take one or two articles and forget the other three that are also part of the same UN statement. Anyway. Because the referendum, as I said before, I do not know whether it will be considered legitimate by a part of Catalan society. I understand you do. Of course, what it's not, it's legal. And it is not said by the Socialist Party, nor by José Antonio Pastor: it is said by the Generalitat Guarantee Council itself; it is said by Parliament's own lawyers. Therefore, to say that there is no illegality, when the decision is made knowingly that what is going to be taken there is an illegal decision, is, let me tell you, a sarcasm of the fattest ones I have heard. And, by the way, a precision regarding the closure of the schools: it is a judge who has now taken the lead and the decision on whether or not to close the electoral schools in Catalonia. And I'm worried about what's going on in Catalonia, and you're going to understand why: because the Basque socialists know a lot, here in Euskadi, about what they point you with their fingers for thinking differently. And not only do they point at you with their fingers, they end up even making you lose your life. That's why we're very worried that that could happen in Catalonia. And I do not want to make comparisons, because fortunately in Catalonia terrorism disappeared many years ago, many more than here, but anti-democratic behaviors appear that I would like to be denounced when they occur. And that doesn't work. And, finally, I will end with an appointment, with a sentence of Jesus Eguiguren applied to Euskadi and that I want to apply to Catalonia: "Cataluña has no solution, but has arrangement". And since you have an arrangement, and we are convinced that you have, believe me that we are going to leave our skins to make that arrangement possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u18	Allow me to make an appointment to tell the media. And the quotation reads: "The referendum law has been carried out with procedures that render the Statute ineffective, which renders the Statute ineffective and leaves worthless the legal sphere that has been built up so far. It is necessary to be honest and to know that, what is celebrated on 1 October, does not have the right guarantees" (Iñigo Urkullu, lehendakaria). We have you for a sensible politician, Mr Urkullu, and we also share this reflection. What we find extraordinarily surprising is that your parliamentary group is going to vote precisely what you denounced, which you identified as lacking democratic guarantees. It is something truly remarkable what the Nationalist Parliamentary Group is going to do. It is remarkable that you are giving leadership to EH Bildu in such an extraordinarily sensitive matter. They're going to fill them up to the demonstrations! They give them leadership, they fill the demonstrations, even though they have an example, in what has happened in Catalonia, uneducating and from which we should flee. But Mr. Egibar gives us the key, and he says, "Politics is emotion." The human being is emotion, of course he is, but what is up to us politicians is to temper emotions, is to channel through reason and law these varied and contrasting emotions, and from temperance to seek understanding. Because if emotions govern us, throughout history we have – and I am not going to quote those examples –..., throughout history we have certainly extraordinarily unpleasant examples of what happens when emotion is exalted above reason and above the law. Consider what it means to give leadership to EH Bildu in this matter. Consider the uncertain path that opens up. Consider what it means to deprive Basque institutions of leadership in a matter as sensitive as this and to grant it to us not know who, but who leads and fills the streets. We are a community of law, where reason and law prevail, because the opposite is confusion, it is the impossibility of sensible and reasonable governance. I used to ask him rhetorically, and I will repeat it again, because I think it is extraordinarily remarkable: how is it possible for anyone to defend that a parliament, the majority of a parliament representing 48% of the census, a few 2 million Catalans, should be imposed on the 5 million Catalans that make up that census, and that is intended to be a democratic gesture and will be supported by the majority parliamentary group in this House, which also supports the government? It does not have the slightest democratic or procedural guarantee. None. None. We can discuss where we're from, where we're going... Each has its own position, makes its own analyses, there are probably many factors that have determined that we are where we are, and on this we could probably also be discussing for many weeks and many months, but what is an objective reality is that what is intended to be done on 1 October has violated any legal procedure, even that which the Catalans themselves have endowed themselves with in their Parliament; it has violated the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia itself, and it has violated any hint of democratic procedure, Mr Egibar. And you're gonna back that up. We, in conclusion, want to repeat the site, the offer we have made to them before. Listen, it's not bad for us, it's not bad for us, we believe that Euskadi is doing reasonably well; that the understanding that exists in this House and in Basque politics is helping us and is enabling us to overcome certain deeply negative and uneducating scenarios, politically and socially. That we are overcoming the darkest stage of Euskadi's recent history; that we are being able, through the understanding between different, to give political stability to this Community, this country; that through the understanding we are also being able to generate economic and social stability, and that this is a good to preserve. We believe that it is a good thing to preserve, and hence our repeated offers to the Basque Government to continue to weave that understanding and agreement. And I understand, Mr Egibar, that not all of you share this reflection, but what is also an objective reality, at least for those of us who understand politics from the pact and from the understanding, is that what is happening in Catalonia is a political aberration of every order, and that we cannot allow Basque politics to be infected. And today with their support for EH Bildu's initiative they not only give them leadership, they will not only fill a demonstration on Saturday, but they will also run away as from the plague of understanding and agreement, and they will cause Euskadi to become infected with what we should not be infected with. And I end up with an appointment that seems very relevant to me too. In the context of 1962, in Mississippi a governor decided to skip the American Constitution; he decided, with his political power, because his community supported him (the community of Mississippi supported him), he decided to skip the United States Constitution and allow racist laws or racist positions to continue to be imposed, and to prevent black people from accessing the University of Mississippi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u19	You have to finish that date...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u20	I'm done, Madam President. And Kennedy said: "Americans are free, in short, to disagree with the law, but not to disobey it. For in a government of laws and not of men, no man, however prominent or powerful he may be, nor any mob, however rebellious or turbulent he may be, has the right to challenge a court of justice. If this country had reached the point that any man or group of men, by force or by threat of force, could legally challenge the orders of our Court and our Constitution, then no law would be free of doubt, no judge would be sure of his mandate, and no citizen would be safe from his neighbors." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Egibar, Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u22	Mr. Semper, always worried about the PNV. His concerns are those that quote: on which path is the PNV, where it is headed, that we flee as from the plague of agreement and understanding... None of that is true, and you know it. And in addition, in reference to Catalonia, when he appealed – and also quoted the lehendakari – to the reference to guarantees, that the process or referendum does not have the right guarantees..., indeed, but who is dedicated to closing the media, who pursues public office, who seeks political and personal disqualifications, who goes to the search for ballot papers, who seeks to seize the ballot boxes, who obsessively and obsessively dedicates himself to that, he says: "This referendum has no guarantees". Look, Mr. Semper, that has its own name in the Spanish language dictionary: that's cynicism. Kinism. I agree that in Catalonia what is happening is an aberration. Well, yes, it's an aberration, the one the People's Party is committing. The People's Party. For before I have quoted the two letters, I have quoted that of Puigdemont and that of Mr Rajoy (solicite, and answer), and I have observed and fixed what is the limit that Rajoy has, which says that he cannot have Spanish sovereignty. But it can – and clues have been given, proposals have been transferred to Mr Rajoy –, it can from the House, from the Congress of Deputies, with the relevant amendment of Law 2/80, of Referendum Modalities, it could be enabled a legal consultation, directly. But it has not been wanted, and when there is no will, self, personal or collective will, it turns out that the responsibility is borne by the rest, who is asking you to ask your fellow citizens and is denied. And, of course, last time I also told you – I don't know if you or your partner Alfonso Alonso – but these are the words of Rubio Llorente... No, "again" no, it's that this isn't Abandon's batzoki! He passed away on 23 January 2016, but was here in the Self-Government Office, and when a judge president of the Council of State and vice-president of the Constitutional Court says that "if a territorialised minority wants independence, the democratic principle prevents them from opposing formal obstacles that can be eliminated"... Therefore, the prevalence of the democratic principle, and any formal obstacles that can be eliminated. And he says, "If the Constitution prevents it, it will have to be reformed," he says (this would come in line with the Socialist Party). But he adds: "But before reaching that end, even the reform of the Constitution, one must find out the existence and solidity of that supposed will, and there is no other way than that of the referendum." That is, the referendum can be done beforehand to what can be a constitutional amendment, amending Law 2/80, on Referendum Modalities. And it is possible that some initiative will have to be presented to explore what the democratic will is also in the Congress of Deputies in this regard, because that is to deepen democracy. And Rubio Llorente says it, I repeat, nothing suspicious of being a nationalist. And I was earlier appealing to the limits on which we are finding ourselves, and it is true that the political subjects (the Basque people, the Catalan people) not constitutionally recognized, not recognized as such political subjects by the Spanish Constitution, we are playing in a political space shared with the People's Party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Citizens, etc., that deny the existence of these political subjects. Therefore, the limits to dialogue must be put in the light of the democratic principle, not always say "No, no; we can dialogue, but within legality". No, no, no! We can talk about everything, above all, to the extent that political projects can all be defended and achieved. Systems must ensure that political projects are carried out if the democratic majority so requires. Hori gives you the difference. You don't want to see it, but, of course, by covering your eyes you won't stop feeling and seeing that reality, the reality of Catalonia. A Catalonia that since October 1 is going to be different, is going to be different. A door will open, there will be fresh air for democracy also in the Spanish state. And I think it will be a positive contribution; hence our position in favour of the three points of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Madame Okiñena's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; contraries, 18; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u24	So the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The patrioticist and Basque Socialists, the parliamentary bill of law, the transparency of the Euscal Autonomia Esquire, and the participation of the citizens. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. Is someone here on the side shift willing to participate? Side shift? No. On the side... Cris? Side shift? Explicacion de voto. Side shift? Not on the side shift... Side shift? Well, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u25	Yes, hello. Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Almost a year ago we came to this Parliament, and we did so with initiatives such as transparency measures and measures to prevent corruption and the phenomenon of revolving doors. We are pleased that our initiative has come forward in its day and can contribute very positively to improving the future law on transparency and participation, with measures such as the regulation of a Basque transparency agency that operates autonomously and independently and includes a register of lobbies; or that the work of monitoring compliance with and compliance with the obligations of public officials of the Basque Public Administration is enhanced, as well as measures to promote transparency as an effective tool for the prevention and resolution of conduct linked to the incorrect use of public resources. While it is true that the amendment with the groups supporting the Government called on the Government to forward a bill for debate and adoption as soon as possible, we imagine that, given the Government's inability to comply with this purpose, it has had to be the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party that have brought this initiative to debate in the form of a bill. From Elkarrekin We believe that good governance should promote equity, participation, transparency, accountability, accountability and respect for the rule of law. Taking these premises into account, both institutions and representatives and public representatives are due to a working method based on consultation, dialogue, negotiation and agreement, management effectiveness, and submission to the law. And it is that citizenship in no way can be relegated to good governance limited to the election of its representatives. On the contrary, it must have the possibility and responsibility to participate directly in political decision-making. To this end, it requires a system that facilitates the exchange of truthful information between the Administration and those administered, which is complemented by measures aimed at the reactivation and strengthening of civil society. That is why we believe it is necessary to promote a law of transparency and good governance for all Basque public administrations, which will enable the implementation of a new culture of government that places citizens at the centre of public management; to make a firm commitment to the use of open data standards (open data) for the management of all institutional information, so that it can be freely used by citizens; to create a comprehensive law of citizen participation and consultations in the Basque area, with the aim of extending and promoting the creation of bodies and councils open to citizen participation, and to regulate mechanisms and instruments for direct participation, enhancing the use of those currently underused citizens' consultations on issues of general interest. Either way, from Elkarrekin We can believe in the urgent need for this law to finally be a reality. And we believe it because a part of our society has long since ceased to believe in its political class, and its demands raise the level of demand far beyond rhetoric and cry out for a radically different policy than it has so far exercised. But it is not enough to open a portal of transparency or partial actions. What is at stake is to assume that a new political culture is opening up, and it needs to be strengthened. All the measures we are developing in this regard will revert to a better and stronger democracy. And strengthening democracy, in the sense of making it more transparent and participatory, is strengthening society and living together. We must not forget that the current income guarantee system, which is now in force, is a debtor of popular legislative initiative, and not of any government. Institutions must be able to respond to the needs of the social majority with effective, transparent, participatory and exemplary functioning. People, in addition to the election of their representatives, must have the opportunity and responsibility to participate directly in political decision-making and in matters affecting their daily lives. It is society that, with its decisions, forms the basis of democracy, and this can only happen when governments and rulers are able to look into the eyes, directly, of citizens because they have nothing to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Anyone on the other side want to participate? No. Well, then, we'll go to the vote... Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't understand you, I'm sorry. I didn't see you because there were so many people out there I didn't see anything. You didn't see it? Well, then, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours. I didn't see... Did you see it? I'm sorry, but I didn't see it. There were so many people standing there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u27	I saw you there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u28	Yeah, I didn't see it. Wait, I'll give you twenty minutes because the other one didn't spend that much. [[Berber]] No, no, but no one else had to participate, calm. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u29	Well, I wanted to make a speech in favour of this law, because I believe that the thrust that the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group are proposing to this House today is an outstanding task for this House, but that what is fundamentally ambitious is to regulate the accountability model, because transparency is already installed in the day-to-day life of the Basque Government for several years. Because we want to offer services to citizens not only from responsibility and social vocation, but clearly in our actions, to follow the trace of the euros that Basques and Basques leave in the hands of our administrations in the form of taxes. Transparency must be a watermark of all public policies taken from all institutions, and with that in mind we have proposed a law on transparency and citizen participation. Here we reorder everything that has begun to drive from the socialist government and that we continue to drive years later from the opposition, and that has been incorporated into the joint commitment that we have signed on government action for this legislature, which we want to strengthen with a broad consensus. And, well, Mrs Macazaga, I want to thank the group We may have joined in the turn in favor of this bill, because we want everyone to participate, add, but above all that we value positively the effort that has been made by both groups to bring forward this bill. Because at the moment we have already succeeded in taking steps in this House by passing the Incompatibilities Act, as we also aspire to complete the puzzle with the future law of the public sector, because they are three rules that are complementary to each other. We believe that the text we are putting forward responds to an ambitious proposal for radical transparency, because it changes the axis: we move from government initiatives to guaranteeing citizens' rights to information and participation. It is not, therefore, merely a reordering of practices that had already been started. This law aims above all to contribute to overcoming fears and to definitively abandon the old temptations to distribute the data available to public administrations. Information is already the power of citizens, but it is not only a question of surrendering to evidence; for socialists this is a question of deep political conviction. Two legislatures in Euskadi began an unknown experience. Without any law that required it, the Patxi López Government approved the first code of ethics. To this was added an open information web (Irekia); it served and continues to serve as a channel for citizen participation. And the conditions for public procurement were also published. The data held by the Government for its possible public reuse by citizens as a whole (this is what is known as open data ) was opened. And with all this in 2012 Euskadi achieved the highest international transparency score. And those practices were taken over by the Government later, but there was something else left. I had to skip from that display of transparency tools to the radicality I was referring to at the beginning of my speech. And what we want to do is make it a new concept, active advertising. This implies an obligation for the subjects concerned by this law: the obligation to make public, on its own initiative, on a regular and up-to-date basis, all relevant information that guarantees the transparency of their activity, related to the operation and control of their public action. You don't have to wait for the citizen to ask for the information. It is the Administration itself that will offer and evaluate, and it will explain it, and it will do so with clear and understandable language. It's no longer up to any government to decide. It will be mandatory to present, update and evaluate it. Nor will there be excuses for other bodies directly or indirectly dependent on the public. This standard will also affect the three institutional levels, all entities that depend on them, and will be key to tackling the modernization of public administrations, and all bodies that interact with them. We are talking, for example, about concerted educational and health facilities, or about private entities receiving more than 40% of their funding from the public sector. Similarly, it is also envisaged that all grants will be published, as well as those of interest groups, which will have to be registered in a specific register. And we also add – and I think this is very important – a demanding sanctioning regime, so that the guarantee of these citizens' rights to information and participation is at the highest level of demand. In short, it is our vocation to follow the path of every euro that citizens leave in the hands of the administrations through their taxes, until that euro returns to the citizen himself, in the form of the provision of public services, of various aids, or of scholarships. The only limit we have to take into account is that of data protection, and I am convinced that it will be possible to process this law without major problems. In the past legislature, it was up to me to propose the law regulating public offices and conflicts of interest, and today we managed to overcome the doubts and reluctances of other groups. No one questions that law today. And that's what we expect with this text. We Socialists have put it from the deep conviction that a twenty-first century administration is not without responsibility, but, above all, without accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Anybody else want to be a part of this shift? Answering shift? Not even. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 56; rivals, 0; white, 0; abstain, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u31	So it's agreed to consider the law's proposal. We'll go next to the vote. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u32	Yes, very briefly, Madam President. Thank you very much. After several attempts, let's say, failed fundamentally throughout the past legislature, in which there was an important participation of the parliamentary groups contributing through amendments, trying to improve the draft presented by the Government in the past legislature, today we are presented through another formula of parliamentary processing, which we will not criticize (hope that this will allow some agility). Because it is true – and I look at you, Mr. Counsellor – that much of the debate about the material content of the law of transparency and good governance... has already been debated and we have had the opportunity to exchange views, and there seems to be a broad consensus, a general consensus about the material content that this legislative text should contemplate. We share, and have said so on many occasions, that it is important and essential that we have a law of transparency. And we believe that it is fundamental and important because it legitimizes institutions from the moment it makes institutions and their management more transparent, which gives citizens more confidence in their institutions, and that this law, like others (all), must be complied with. Counselor, let us hope that no one will come tomorrow and tell us that this law may not be complied with because it says I don't know what strange things, or that certain politicians don't like it. In any case, we believe that more transparency is more effective in management, and we also believe that it is more control and participation, and therefore more legitimacy for the institutions. We will bring, as we have done in the past, through amendments and with our participation in the processing of the law, because we understand that the text, as it is presented, and we know the will of the Government, will certainly obtain a very broad consensus on this important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u34	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Well, he's out. We certainly know, transparency, participation, and, I add, a good government, because I do not know why a good government has fallen out of this legal proposition. They're important matters to us, and I'm sure we all want a good law on this subject. The Basque Country is indispensable to the Collectors for any activity whatsoever. And therefore the public sector must consider them indispensable in its activity. Because society itself requires a more and more firm progress in these matters too. And so we worked in the previous law, which was the subject of transparency in the two projects introduced by the Government. Twice we introduced corrections, and saw how the government included several of our contributions into the second bill of law. Today, EAJ and PSE have the legal proposal presented to us on the table. Yes, we've been overreacting. We believe that the forms of introducing this law have been extremely inadequate. Yes, we abstained. We have abstained, because, even if we argue that this is a fundamental issue for a better administration, it cannot be dealt with in this way, let us say, so unsavory, we could say. It is no wonder that the Government, Mr Urkullu's Government, envisaged the introduction of the draft law on transparency, citizen participation and good governance in its programme of the eleventh legislature, that is to say, this legislature, and we were therefore waiting for the Government to comply with its legislative timetable. But, look where we are here today with a proposal (not a proposal), with a proposal for a law presented by the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party. That is to say, instead of having in our hands a bill submitted by the Government, with all its relevant reports and carrying out all the stipulated procedures, we have a proposal for a law that shoots without any concealment the proposal of the Government of the past legislature. That is to say, we have here today a document which is the result of the work of the Administration, that is, of public officials, presented as the work of two parliamentary groups. And, in order to raise the profile further, today they dare to present here as their own a document containing amendments tabled by other groups in this House to the document which the government presented last parliamentary term. Because, to my surprise, it has not taken me five minutes to find and recognize whole sentences and paragraphs written by myself in this document presented by the PNV and the Socialist Party. And, ladies and gentlemen, these are not forms. These are not forms of a good manager. It may have been the haste to bring legislation to this Parliament and thus give an image of legislative activity, but not, ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. Not like that. Not the back door, no. And the height of the misconception is that they have done so precisely with the law of transparency and citizen participation. They take a shortcut, skipping all the steps that a bill must take, to bring to Parliament the law that must establish the general principles of transparency, public assessment, active advertising or participation. Paradoxically, isn't it? For me, yes, quite paradoxical. And this is not the way to present a law. In fact, this is not the way to present the Garden Act. Queer way of introducing the law around transparency, through the back door. I don't think it's very exemplary to introduce a law of transparency, including the administration's work and the work of other legislative groups. And that's why we're abscession. We shall not be the law of transparency or of participation which will hinder them from working among them, but we shall not be the ones who will give them the means in any way. And if we really want to cultivate the laws and get ahead of them in this parliament, please, if you want to make a partnership with the Basque Country, do things right from the beginning. Right from the beginning, and don't walk, and let each one do his own. Let the government fulfil its legal calendar, by introducing the laws which it ought to present, and by filling up all the tramites to which it ought to be executed. And these legislatures will be made and arranged as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u36	Thank you, ma'am. Gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I'm here to give you a vote you don't have to. I would say that the eubertist should vote for what is driven by groups in agreement by logic and consistency. And so, rather than make a vow, I shall be presented with the representation of this legal proposition. The reasons for the presentation. We have already admitted that there is need for confidence in the public district. To this end we favor the new administrative culture which modern ages and societies require; A wager for efficiency, government, transparency, and community intervention. For this reason this proposition fills the path begun in the past law, because it was unanimously accepted by the practice of public offices, and the law which regulated the constitution of inconsistency, and the proposal of the public sect of euscals which has just been introduced. This law has been built to promote a culture based on new paradigms, which modern times require. Because these paradigms are connected with the different aspects of what is called good government. This new culture has three main axiss: the evaluation of public politics, the transparency, and the participation of public affairs. From these, as always, every one cannot walk or hold but with the other two. In the previous parliamentary term our parliamentary group, Euzko Abertzaleak, was closely committed to everything related to transparency, participation and good governance, and we have made it, together with the Socialist Group, a central theme of our government agreement for this parliamentary term. I must also remind you, as Mrs Macazaga has done, that in the first ordinary plenary session of this parliamentary term on 15 December, our parliamentary group agreed with the groups Elkarrekin Podemos and Socialists Basques to bring to this House an articulated text so that it could be debated as soon as possible in this forum, and thus proceed to the approval of a specific legal body that would force administrations to strengthen the principle of transparency with citizens, and in turn promote effective tools for citizen participation in public affairs. We hope that the third will be won and we will have a modern and up-to-date standard that lights up a new administrative culture. I think it is possible, since the contributions – as Mrs Pinedo has said – that the different groups made in the last parliamentary term have been taken into account in the drafting of this basic text. We want this proposal for a law on transparency and citizen participation to become soon a citizen reality, and therefore I do not want to look back and point out guilty or responsible that we do not have a basic standard in our community today that meets the public requirements of transparency. The experience gained in the previous legislature has served to ensure that, taking as a reference the bill that the Basque Government has drafted in the House, we have today an articulated and worked text, and with sufficient scope and necessary legal rigour, to allow all groups to make the contributions that they consider appropriate and thus contribute to improving the final product. XXI. It is, as has been said, the basis of this principle. the principles of government which ought to govern the administration in the century: the transparency, the participation, and the community's cooperation in public affairs. In this context, for a short period or so, the legal proposition requires a higher degree of exposure. With regard to the transparency of the government, it will have a duty to publish the government's program, the legislative calendar, its changes, its evaluations, the activity of the organs of consult and share, the plans of human resources, the selection processes, or the public expense of public advertising campaigns. Well, I'm not going to repeat what the spokesman said before, but in order to do and fulfill all that, ladies and gentlemen, we need a very large consent, we need a large understanding. By conversation and discussion, by listening to other people's attitudes without arrogance, and based on a slow examination in this Chamber. We want to point out this from the eulogy group: the value which ought to be the consequence of an agreement, to improve the daily problems of the people, and to be able to answer the wants of the people in an efficient manner. By this law, our own system of transparency and participation is intended to regulate, because it is necessary to give sufficient answers to the wants of the euscal society, and to the changes produced in that society. It's not a small challenge, so let's get through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the opportunity of setting up the rate of tourism. Discipline and final resolution. It's your call, Mr. Hernández, the representative of the Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u38	Egun on, legebiltzarkideok, although we are few, or few. I will try to explain the reasons why our parliamentary group recorded last May, before the summer and also some heated debates on tourism. Our group registered an initiative aimed at this Parliament putting in place, urging the government to address and also to present in this Parliament a concrete, open proposal (because we did not point too much or practically nothing to the government on our initiative); a proposal to address the one known as the tourist rate. A question that is not new, that has been debated in society, that has been debated in the municipalities that would most affect this issue, and that has also been debated in this House. We decided to leave the initiative for after the summer, and we thought, after hearing statements from political leaders from different parties and especially from the parties supporting the government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party), we thought that we could reach an agreement with relative ease, because we understood, from what we were hearing through these political leaders, that we were more or less moving towards a majority opinion in favour of already establishing the possibility of this tourist rate. In that spirit I started the talks to reach agreement on the initiative we were bringing to this House, and the truth is that I did take a little surprise with what has finally happened, and that there is no majority agreement; that we have only been able to negotiate our initiative with the EH Bildu group, whom I thank for the disposition – and finally with them we present the compromise – and we have not been able to reach an agreement with the other groups, mainly the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, because the People's Party already knew that it was perhaps the most responsive group to our initiative (as they had also expressed in some municipalities). But it couldn't have been. Well, we believe that in this case the groups that support the government have lacked a little courage to go a little further, and they remain to ask for talks to be started, to be studied, to see the possibility or not to raise this tourist rate... We thought, as I said, that this initiative could have broad support, because we have heard leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, such as the Mayor of San Sebastián, express themselves in favour of the implementation of the tourist rate, and those of the Basque Socialist Party, such as the lieutenant mayor also of the City of Donostia, in favour of the establishment of the tourist rate. And even the Councillor, Mr Retortillo, we have heard, not only this summer, but earlier, statements in favour of the possibility of the tourist rate, it is true that with nuanced information on how he understood that this issue has to be raised, but in any case favorable. Even there in April Mr Retortillo explained in some medium of communication that he had already started some kind of contact with agents in the sector, and that he did not find majority opinions negative to the implementation of the tourist rate. And because we also have the positions of important municipalities (not only that of Donostia, also that of Zarautz), municipalities to which they are concerned; positions not only favourable, but those plenary, in some cases even with unanimity, have asked this House to bring this debate and to urge the Government to set the tourist rate. That is why, with these limbs, we were finally surprised that the Socialist Party has remained half way and has tended to sign a compromise with the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, which in our opinion moves a little further to the reserve positions of the People's Party, which he proposed is that the debate be opened, let us talk to all the agents, and we will see whether the rate is positive or negative. We were clear that this rate, the so-called tourist rate, if it is done well – and our initiative leaves the government very free – if it is done well it is a positive initiative for people, for citizens, and therefore we do not understand that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have finally moved to the positions of the People's Party and that they have remained, as I said, halfway and with reservations. We believe that this is a contradiction in some of the positions that have been held by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. We believe that it responds to a lack of courage, we do not know exactly what it is for, and what we find, of course, is that the position they bring today is at least contrary to the position they have expressed publicly – and that is easily verifiable – some of their colleagues with important responsibilities of government, for example, in the City of Donostia. In any case, we are going to continue to defend that Euskadi needs a tourist rate, which is a good proposal, which is a good measure – which must then be defined, that is true – and we were open to the government to have absolute freedom to put it and bring it to this House, but we understand that it is good. We understood that this should already have been reflected in the Tourism Act that was passed in the last legislature, speeding up the times, just before the end of the legislature. This was also understood by the San Sebastián City Council, which requested it in July 2016, just before the law was passed. He called for this issue to be taken up in the law. It finally couldn't have been. We did not intend to come here to talk about the past or to complain that it was included or not included in that law, which was also approved by a large majority of this House. That is why we were willing, and so I passed it on to Mrs Corcuera and so I told Mr Casanova, too, not to make any reference to the Tourism Act. In fact, in the transaction that we finally present we make no reference to the Tourism Act. And, therefore, it is also an open proposal on which method the Government considers most appropriate to bring to this House the possibility of having the tourist rate. A tourist rate which is no coincidence, which is an old debate, which is applied in most European countries (there are more countries that have this tourist rate than those that do not), which is a rising trend throughout the world. And, starting with our environment, in France in particular this tourist rate has been applied for many years, in Paris in particular since 1994; therefore, it has a long way to go, and with positive results recognized thus by different political groups also in that place. In Italy too, in Rome, in Venice... , this rate is applied in different cities. And also in the Spanish state we have had it in Catalonia for some years now. So, and with those results, we think it's a useful tool, and I'm also going to try to explain why we think it's a useful tool. Firstly, we think it is a useful tool because, against reservations that someone may have, a tourist rate will not have a negative impact on tourism and the tourist influx that we can have in Euskadi or to which we can aspire in Euskadi. This too has been acknowledged by Mr Retortillo, who has expressed it on more than one occasion. It is a useful tool, especially – and this is also reflected in the transaction we present with the EH Bildu group – because it allows us to raise money that serves to cover extra expenses that tourism generates in some of our cities. Because we understand..., and we do not pretend that it is the tourists who pay the total of these expenses in our cities, but we understand that it is unfair that we are the neighbors and neighbors of the neighborhoods who have to bear the burden of the expenses that this tourism entails. A tourism – which I am not going to question –... a tourism that if managed well is positive, because it can generate benefits for society if managed well, but which also generates expenses. And expenses to be covered, miscellaneous expenses (light, cleaning, road maintenance, etc.) that we wouldn't have to pay neighbors. And because it can also allow, if we want to do so too, some of that money to be reinvested in improving our tourist activity, and there surely groups will have different visions of how this is done, but it would allow it. And finally also because this law gives full freedom to the municipalities. It doesn't impose anything on them. On the contrary, it is at this moment that municipalities want to apply this rate and that they have expressed it, such as that of Donostia or Zarautz, cannot do so, and that is why they are asking this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to allow them to apply it. Finally, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, together with the People's Party, have been asked to initiate dialogue with different actors, including Eudel. We, as you can see, in our transaction pick this up. We are not at all opposed to this. On the contrary, it seems to us absolutely necessary that, before the Government brings that proposal, we speak with Eudel, we talk with the agents and we talk with the institutions that are necessary. But it seemed important to us that, having said that, it should also be noted that the Government must present the initiative. I had also offered, and so I transferred yesterday to Mrs Corcuera, to eliminate any reference to a time frame in our initiative. We didn't want this to be an issue that in three months' time doesn't give us time to talk to Eudel or talk to the agents. So, we didn't care about the deadline, and even I was willing not to include any deadline, with the risk that that would lead to nothing being done, but we were willing because we wanted this to go ahead, because we understood that it is a majority request, and that many and many agree with it in the Basque Nationalist Party and in the Basque Socialist Party. An initiative, therefore, which left much room for manoeuvre to the Government; an initiative which not only did not interfere at the municipal level, but gave it greater freedom, and an initiative which allowed tourism to be harnessed, if things were right, so that neighbours and neighbours did not have to bear an extra expense. We therefore understood that it was a good initiative, and we understood that it could have been supported by the different groups. I am not going to dare to say exactly why they do not support it; I suppose they do not have it clearly within the Basque Nationalist Party and within the Basque Socialist Party. But what is clear is that some of them do agree with what we are bringing to this House today, and this has been expressed unanimously by the City of San Sebastián, for example. By unanimity of all groups, by the way. So, I don't know if we're in time for a ride. I'm going to ask for the vote for our transaction. I'm going to regret that it doesn't go ahead, and that we're halfway there. And I will also wait to see if it is true that the government is starting what you are going to ask of it, because we have also had time here, Mr Retortillo has also had time, and according to him some contacts have already done to address this issue and to have more or less a vision of what the agents, both Eudel and the agents of tourism, or the institutions think of this issue, and do not continue to go around and continue to analyse more and more and more if we agree or disagree with the establishment of a tourist rate. My group agrees. My group, when this is discussed and addressed, which will eventually be discussed and addressed, will put forward a concrete model, and perhaps we have differences with other groups, but what we regret is that today we lose the opportunity to ask the Government to present an initiative, which we did not put just conditionality on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u40	Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Elkarrekin Podemos presents to us an initiative in which he urges to amend the Tourism Act, adopted a year ago, just over a year ago in this House, in order to include the possibility that the municipalities of the Basque Country, of the Autonomous Community, can establish a tourist rate for overnight stays in the municipalities. Here I would ask you one thing: How is the possibility included in a law? I don't know. Just like you have an explanation. He's talking about "some town halls." Is the law going to be for "some town halls"? For what municipal scope? We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the tourist rate, but it's a bad call. It's a tourist tax. Let's call things by their name: tax. In Spain this tax for tourist stays is paid in Catalonia and Balearic Islands. According to Catalan law, the scope of application is the entire autonomous community, its entire territory; there is no possibility that a city council will choose to apply it or not. The collection is intended for a fund for the promotion of tourism, to finance tourism policies, to improve the competitiveness of Catalonia as a tourist destination, and an important part is distributed, on the one hand, to local entities, on the other hand to Barcelona as a city, and on the other hand to the Arán Valley. In the Balearic Islands, the introduction of this tax... They call it ecotase, because they've put in sustainable tourism and it's no longer tax, it's ecotase, but it's still a tax, they call it what they call it. This tax is final and is set for stays. The fund is created, but there is no distribution for local entities; it is managed only by the Balearic Government, the Autonomous Community. So, fate... He's not going to town halls. The destination will manage it from this fund for investments in the preservation and modernization of the natural, marine, rural and agricultural environment; for the promotion of deseasonalization, creation and activation of tourist products. Therefore, the argument that you say, of the services that the municipalities have to resize to serve the tourist, this does not cover it. This is to improve tourism policy, to make it more competitive, but not for municipalities. So let us adjust what we want and how we want to do it. In Andalusia, no tourist tax has been imposed. In the Canary Islands there was a debate, it was rejected, it seems that the debate is reopened at the request of the Canario Group. The debate is opening in Valencia. And in Europe there are cities that have it (Paris), but London does not have it. Well, he doesn't have it! And others do. We do not share the need for this tourist tax, a tax that imposes overnight stays, when the interest of the sector is to increase the percentage of overnight stays per tourist. Taxes rarely generate sympathy among citizens, and raise arms to the sector, which ultimately has to face up to the levy. You were telling me... your amendment, of course, says let's talk to people. Listen, you kings of participation, in your conclusion, with whom have you met? Who have you consulted? Because I'm also a tourist in the Basque Country! I haven't been asked by anyone, I haven't had a chance to comment. Therefore, you, who are the kings of participation, or that have sold us... In twenty-four hours we have discussed, I have had to discuss two initiatives of the Elkarrekin group We can, in twenty-four hours, in which they have eaten the participation, they have left it aside, and the two initiatives involve a tax for the citizens. Yesterday we were talking about the collection and return of containers, which costs the collection (so what I pay for garbage will go up, of course), we will see whether it is worth it or not, but they did not involve anyone, they did not consult with anyone. And today we discuss this, which also involves a tax. We are very clear that this tax has to be, in some cases, with consensus, but of course today this tax we believe it can generate, and especially in the Basque Country, negative effects on the hotel sector, as well as employment and trade. We are not in a position to lose a single job, nor to generate negative dynamics for trade or the hotel sector. The tourist, the tourists, we go out on a budget; we go out on a budget to spend a period of time, and if I leave it at the same rate I don't take the taxi, you know? If I leave it at the rate, I don't take a cane anyway. If I leave it at the rate, I won't do another activity. So, let's assess what is the positive effect you say and what is the negative effect. We believe that this tax, this tax, is a loss of the tourist's spending capacity, which is clearly going to stop spending it on other services, and we believe that for this we must first make a consultation and meetings with the sector to know what their criterion is. That is why the tourism table seemed appropriate to us in our amendment. Well, we extended it to Eudel, fantastic. Let's talk to the sector, and let them tell us what their criteria are. We're wrong, I don't know, we're wrong, too! I'd like to be told by them, but it's just that here you don't give a chance to talk and think about the sector. That's what we do, some of us who are already old, classic... What did they call us? Don't you? You new people in one year have forgotten those principles that supposedly motivated one's presence in political activity. I believe that you are trying to impose; we believe and think that it is much better to improve management, and there is an ability to improve management. And we expose all the possibilities, because what you have shown here, and that problem that is generated in some municipalities, that is not a tourist problem. It is a problem of local funding, which is something else. It's something else. That we have to rethink how local entities are financed? Let's think! But not at the expense of the tourist. Look, I think we need to be much more specific on this issue, because you say "possibilities", "some"... No, if local financing problems have all the municipalities, those that have tourism and those that do not have tourism! So let's explore that, too. And that there is a possibility of improvement in management, and not having to resort to a new tax? Well, too. Therefore, we improve management before imposing new taxes. And, as I was saying, where have you left participation, which seemed to be essential in our lives? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, in short, they are proposing a tourist rate for local funding, and we believe that this is not the solution. We can debate, I do not refuse to debate, but I want data and to know what the sector thinks, and what are the local financing problems that each municipality has, the one that has tourism and the one that does not. Because why are we going to fix it... With this rate you will not solve the local financing problems you have at the City Hall of San Sebastián! That rate is going to go to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country! And it's not that a city council has a chance to join the rate or not. A law will be for the whole arc of the territory of the Basque Country, of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and will apply to all. We, of course – and we have already expressed this in this House on several occasions – are betting on a tax reform that lowers tax pressure; therefore, far from admitting a new tax burden. Far away. Because we need to lower tax pressure on families and businesses to make more tourism, for example. We will not vote in favour of increasing those tax burdens. And it is also that the arguments that have been made here, therefore, do not justify that. We have therefore made a compromise amendment which we believe is where we should start. That one should start by consulting with Eudel, with the administrations, what they think, and consult with the hotel sector, which in the end will be the chargeer of the fee and the affected one too. Or not, I don't know. Let them tell us. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u42	Good morning, everyone. I am touched, Mrs López de Ocariz, by your fervent call for citizen participation. I want to ask for a referendum, what happens is that they also send us to the Civil Guard, as they usually do every time they want to give the word to the citizenry. Of course we have to consult! We will consult, and we propose to consult at the tourism table, social partners and Eudel, and anyone who has something to say. Of course, here is an open proposal, in the transactional one that we have reached with Elkarrekin Podemos, for a consultation, but on the premise that this rate can be established giving the opportunity that those municipalities that want to do it – that is, always from the premise of voluntarity – can do it, which is a reality that does not exist today. I also see that in your party, when it comes to making noise about tourism, it thrills you, it puts you quite, but when you have to talk about the real problems of tourism, which are these and not the motion that you bring this afternoon, you make mutis for the forum and are elsewhere. I think it is a real reflection of what tourism matters to you. The discussion about the tourist rate is mature and not just because it's here. He's grown up because he's been talking about this for a long time, and, apart from talking, there's been a lot of practice in many places. It is known at which parameters the application of this rate is placed. And it is true that there may be a termological dispute, what name we can give it. The rate is the most used, but it's true that we can also consider it a tax. In other places they call the ratio of jacka or city tax, but we believe that at this moment the name is not the most important. The main thing is to be, the heart. And what the heart tells us is that it can be a source of money with two ends. On the one hand, in order to improve the tourist offer, and, on the other, to prevent the increase of expenditures produced in many cities by tourists or tourists. It exists all over the world, and in many places where it has long existed, we know that this is neither a new thing nor an experiment. There is one thing that has been put in practice, and we have the real experience to appreciate what is the impact of it. And what we can infer from this evolution and examination is that the impact of the rate is generally positive, because it is a source of money I was talking about before, and on the other hand, it is not an obstacle to tourism. Some people have already mentioned it. In the Spanish state, in Catalonia and Balares. Tax has been charged on the basis of the income tax on hand, and on the basis of dissuasiveness. Ez da edozein turistak aurre egin ezin dion rate bat. In Catalonia, for example, the rate ranges between 0.45 cents and 2.25 euro per night; in Balearic Islands, between 0.25 and 2 euro. It is also located in important European countries. And it is also an issue that is not associated with cities that frighten tourism, but precisely with cities that are very attractive to tourism, such as Rome, like Paris, like Amsterdam, or like Vienna, Berlin or Brussels. There are two ways: either to set a fixed amount per night, or to set a percentage of total expenditure. And, as I said, this is something that is working in the Spanish state, it is working in Europe and it is working elsewhere, like cities in the United States, Japan, Morocco, etc., etc. It's important to know that the story of the rate is already in progress and that the goal is to be filled in general because of the history of a success. We can discuss the standard or character of the rate we are here attempting to develop. There are different patterns, as if there were only one pattern in so many places as Mrs. lópez spoke of. And if we are willing to discuss it, it is to establish our own standard, and to do so, we must, of course, hear the opinion of all the agents, and propose to open a time for that purpose, and propose, in our transaction, that this dispute should be given. And we need to talk about a lot of things. For instance, we believe that certain attributes must necessarily be solved. One is progressive, and we believe that this rate must be progressive, i.e. the more it spends, the higher the rate, and that can be the percentage and the percentage it should be fixed there. Or a fixed quantity according to the category of the hotel or the settlement. That's a discussion and discussion to be discussed. Even the hospitals are possible. For example, not to pay children, or to burden long continuances, or to collect the inhabitants of the city, or to be more dear or cheaper according to the season. The discussion about the Hobbaris about progress, whether to charge around the bonuses at every settlement. As to the ends, for they may be double ends, and cannot be inconsistent, they may both be treated. On the one hand, giving the council more economic resources to face the extraordinary expenses of the tourism, which may be a way. And another path, parallel and fully compatible, can be created to strengthen the tourism, to strengthen and support the supporter of tourism, and even in places less tourists, the attraction of tourism. Distribution. The division of the money which is obtained must also be disputed, how much remains in the council, how much remains in this common substance. And it is also necessary to speak about freedom, which is not necessarily necessary to it, but to the council who is willing to use an opportunity for it. And whether this is necessary in a council to decide the best of all, we believe that it is the council itself, and therefore we do not impose anything on it, but give it opportunity and freedom. Today, it's true that doesn't exist. For example, that tourist fund that could be created... We said that there could be a double use: on the one hand, to face the expenses that the municipalities entail the increase of population that generates a great tourist activity, and on the other hand a fund of tourism compensation that could support those municipalities and municipalities that do not have so much tourist influx and that do not, in some way, have risks of massification and that what they need is a special promotion. For example, we now have, in the area of Las Encartaciones, the Karpin, the park of the Karpin, which is the main attraction of the Carranza valley in tourist terms, next to the caves of Pozalagua, and which is in a situation of economic distress. This fund could help to help a project of these characteristics, or also to fix hermitages or bunkers or rural roads, or anything else that for a small town hall may be difficult to sustain economically but that could really be a tourist attraction that could come from this fund to finance. And that's why we don't understand today's attitude. We do not understand today's attitude, which is a proposal that, if we remove the literature, is absolutely reduced to nothing. The government, the conservative bloc, as it were, of this House, what it has decided today is that they are going to talk about one thing, they are going to ask, they are not setting deadlines, they are not committing themselves to anything, they are not saying yes or no, or the contrary, and therefore this proposal that has approved this conservative bloc, or that is going to approve, and nothing is exactly the same. Because at this point, what we are being shown for the umpteenth time is that this government in the field of tourism, as in so many others, if anything is lacking in leadership. And this Government is late for debate. In the first appearance of the tourism adviser in this House, to account for his intentions throughout the legislature, this parliamentarian asked him the question about the tourist rate, whether he was willing to implement it or not. But it's not something I've invented, this is something that was still coming from behind, it's a debate that takes time. And at this point, let us be told that the Government does not have a formed opinion, I find it really surprising. And more surprising when, through different public demonstrations, the previous councillor of the branch, in charge of the branch, among other things, Mrs Tapia, said that she was in favour of the fee, and when the councillor himself said that, well, with conditions, but she might be in favour of the fee. When municipalities with most of the groups supporting the Government have called for this rate, such as Zarautz or Donostia, we are now really surprised that no compromise is being reached. And, I repeat, it is not a question of forcing the municipalities to implement the tax, but of establishing a legal framework that will enable them to do so. And it is not a hypothesis to say that there are municipalities that want it, because already expressly, through their plenary sessions, they have voted and asked us to do so. And, therefore, even if they are only some – and some are not small, if we talk about the world of tourism in Euskal Herria, such as Donostia and Zarautz – even if they are only those, we must take that into account. And other municipalities may understand that this is not the way. It is therefore true that, as I have put on the table, many aspects remain to be defined, and this group has worked and has its position, but obviously we do not want to come here with a closed proposal, and that is why the transactional thing it does is to articulate the debate, but what we would like to put to that debate is a reference. And the reference is that the rate can (can) be put in those places that want to put it. And unfortunately, as I said, we are talking about several million euros that would come very well to the municipalities and would come very well to consolidate a sustainable tourism, which are there in the wake. Some newspaper has calculated that it could be at least 7 million euros, but we are sure that, without too much hand-force, it could be many more. And we therefore understand that the Government's responsibility to lead, not to hide, not to buy time, not to evade its responsibilities, and to say that, indeed, if one wants tourist rate it will be possible to put. It's going to be possible to put, it's not going to be imposed. But really, as Elkarrekin's colleague Podemos said, for reasons that escape us, he again hides his head in a hole and refuses to lead the country in the field of tourism in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u44	Yes, thank you, President. There are those who repeat as a mantra that they always seem to be right and that speak the truth, and the pity or the pitiful thing is that they think that goes down. And don't shut up, Mr. Casanova. You, since yesterday with more impetus, today with something less, continue to repeat that there is a lack of leadership in the Basque Government in the field of tourism, and that is not true. And I can be as clumsy as you repeating that that's not true, until we both get tired. Well, Elkarrekin's initiative Podemos proposes to amend the current Tourism Act (which in its original initiative introduced this legal amendment) to enable the Basque municipalities to establish a tourist rate for overnight stays in their municipalities. And in the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups there were two different points of view: the amendment tabled in this case by Bildu, of the imperative need to introduce this tourist rate, not in a way..., let us say, imposing the rate, deciding that, yes or yes, the rate is set, and then there were a series of amendments, two in particular, by both the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the PNV as well as an amendment by the People's Party, which they indicated was the prior need to verify the opportunity or not to establish this tourist rate, first of all appealing to the opinion of the most affected sector, which was that of the municipalities, to know their opinion, to make a serious reflection with them, an important reflection. Because this has consequences. It is not a voluntary matter, as Mr Casanova says. The rate may, let's say, be voluntary (I am the City Council of Donosti, and I can pretend that the government will implement a rate for me), but what happens to the municipalities next door? Because that implantation of mine, on the part of a city council, also has its consequences in the surrounding town hall, in the town hall next to it. And that's either what they don't want to see, or they don't want to see in this case. The amendment before us was intended to urge the Government to officially initiate an interview with Eudel to know and address within it, where general municipal policies are addressed, which therefore affect the municipalities, what is their approach to the possibility of establishing a statutory tourist tax or tax whose implementation will be that of the municipal level. It is not that the Basque Government has no opinion, it is not that Mr Retortillo has no opinion, it is not that Susana Corcuera as a parliamentarian has no opinion. What we want is for it to be contrasted in the area where decision-making takes place by the municipalities themselves, which are already older and, therefore, it is an exercise of autonomy also municipal, an exercise of the principle of municipal autonomy. And in the compromise amendment that we have tabled, what we intend to do is for the Basque Government to analyse with the Basque administrations, which also have... Because the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council has also said that it seems interesting to implement this rate, not so other outlaws of Euskadi. And, therefore, we intend that with these Basque administrations, and also with the agents of the tourism sector, the need or not to implement this tourist rate is raised, and that it is also necessary to determine what its characteristics could be and the procedure to be followed if such an establishment is appropriate. Of course there is a difference, not only in the modulation of the procedure, Mr Hernández. I thank him for the effort, because he told me yesterday and today he has explained it in this rostrum, the fact that it was not important the Tourism Act or what law, but to establish a procedure. But it's not just a procedural problem, it's not just a time issue, whether it has to be in three months, six months or nine months. It is that forms are also important, and for us it is very important that the municipalities exercise their right to talk about this issue among all, knowing what pros are for all and cons for all. And that is the question, the respect for the institutional principle that the municipalities have, through the LILE, the right that they have to manifest, because it affects them and affects the tourism sector in each of their municipalities and municipalities. And you have to know that, as much as the San Sebastian City Council has a will to implement a tourist rate... That, by the way, I could have done it before, because, as you were saying, a month ago we just passed the Tourism Act, which in such a hurry had to be approved and which seems to be that one of us must have boycotted with annihilation, with which he had time to raise this question of the tourist rate, but here it is not. It comes up a month later. And, as I say, the City of San Sebastián may be, in fact, also in all its right to understand that the implementation of this tourist rate is interesting, it is important and it serves the benefit of the city council itself, but it may be that the neighboring city council understands that, if it does not implement it, it is a problem that the City of San Sebastián has implemented that rate, and is forced to implement it. That's the problem. That's the problem, and that's why they have to decide, not us. Let's see if we stick to the fact that every administration and every institution has its own rights and the right to exercise them. That's what we ask, nothing more and nothing less. And it's not a problem of courage, Mr Hernandez. It's a prudence problem. I understand that you and Bildu, then, being in opposition, can quietly pose the yes because yes, but we can't. We have a government's responsibility, and things have to be done right. Because in fact, you said, if the tourist rate is well raised and has a good implementation will be positive for the municipalities. Yeah, sure. What if it isn't? And if it does not have the characteristics necessary to be a good instrument for the exercise of municipal actions of a municipality, what happens? What's going on? And that is why it is not a matter of courage; it is a matter of prudence and serious and rigorous reflection on this issue. For us the participation of the sector, in addition to Eudel and the municipalities, the participation of the tourism sector is key. In this we cannot forget them, because here there are many things to decide. Mr Casanova also said, he was talking about the issues on which decisions had to be made, and there are indeed many such issues, and each one of them has a condition, each one of them. If we put A, he will have affections; if we put B, he will have the opposite and there will be others. And, therefore, this is not a game. This is not "I'm going to put on the medal that I've managed to implement the tourist rate in Euskadi and with that medal I'm going to heaven". No way! How effective it is! It has to be an effective tax, and for that we need the help of all the municipalities and the whole sector, and of the public administrations. See, among the favorable pronouncements was also that of the committee of experts for the reform of the financing of local entities, which in its report to strengthen the financing of the municipalities, which had been requested by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in July of this year, barely two months ago, this committee of experts proposed, for example, to create a tourist tax that would tax hotel stays; it also proposed a harmonization of the regulations so that there would be no inter-administrative discrepancies as it was not a compulsory tax. And it is within that framework that the socialists too find us – and I tell you sincerely – comfortable, because it is an open debate and it has to be a debate among all, because the benefit will be for all and because, frankly, if we do not agree on the determination of the implementation of this rate we will all lose. We're going to lose everyone, citizenship too, because citizenship also lives in the tourism sector, and we're going to lose everyone. It will not be a question of the private sector raising some issues and the public being in other ways. No, no, It's not about that. And we have indeed been talking about this for a long time. Look, in 2013 the socialists also asked a number of questions to the counselor (at that time she was Arantxa Tapia), and we asked her what our analysis was, because we had heard certain statements that came to talk about the topic of the rate being studied. Well, I'm talking about the year 2013. We had an appearance by a consultant, who also explained to us what her point of view was with regard to the rate. Well, since 2013 look at whether it has rained (long rat in addition), look at whether it has rained, that today a rate is not yet in place. There's gonna be a problem. There will be some problem, because I do not believe that we are a band of denied and denied to deal with these issues. Only that the issues have to be taken with caution, and therefore, if it is a funding issue, it will have to be explained, but among all, as I say, together, among all. And that is the difference between your amendment and ours. The last one, the compromise one, which is an amendment that I recognize you that, well, that changes certain things, adds Bildu's deadline, that they are always very obsessed with the deadlines (this has to be for yesterday, better than for tomorrow)... Obviously, for us too, and I hope that this deep reflection will take place within a short period of time. I do not trust this, because every town hall will look for its home, and it will not be an easy debate to expose among all, it will have its complications, but, of course, today's will be a first step so that among all and we can make a decision on it, that I am sure it will be the best for all and all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. I'll keep it short. I think that all things have already been said, and you will judge at once, I shall repeat several and many arguments. Mr. Hernandez was well aware that this rate of tourism was not a novice, but that it is established in many places, especially in Europe. I want to make our position clear. Our disposition is complete to open controversy and reflection with a purpose: let the municipals choose or give them a chance to set up this tourist rate and set it in motion. The situation has changed. Years ago, in Turism... Well, just a little bit of masquerade, Euscadin... perhaps it did not seem possible or as good to put a rate of touristes on it, but now, in our opinion, the situation has changed, and we can only look at the data. The situation, at the same time – and that is another of the characteristics we have in Euskadi – the situation, I mean, of tourism in Euskadi is very heterogeneous. In other words, there are some municipalities that do have tourism, while others, as it were, do not just have tourism activity. And that is one of the reasons why we defend its implementation at the local level and that the municipalities are those who, in full freedom, can decide to impose or set that rate or not. We think, and perhaps what we have heard in the debate, those little ones, I think, nuances, what we are proposing with our amendment is to reflect. However, I do not know, it is a problem of terms, but we do think it is important to reflect and to carry out reflection. Because I think Mrs. Corcuera explained it very well. And this must obviously be done with Eudel and with the sector itself. And we have to move on and we have to take that path. We also believe that the collection of what may be the tourist rate must be to cover the extra costs that the tourism and tourist activity generates in the areas of safety, traffic, cleaning or the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. Now, I totally agree, and some have quoted it, with the Retortillo advisor when in mid-July he warned that no one would be tempted to use this rate as a brake on tourism, because that is not going to happen. Mr Casanova himself acknowledged that the quantities are very small, and small enough not to deter visitors (as happens to us, by the way) from going to the different tourist points or destinations of Euskadi. And there are indeed experiences in that. So we also agree on that. Therefore, our position is clear: we are in favour of enabling and allowing the implementation of the tourist rate, although this must first be reflected with the municipalities and with the sector. And that's kind of our position. Municipal base rate, and it also has a foundation, apart from all that has been said, an example or a certain parallel with what happens with capitalities or with the royalties of capitality. If you look, for example, at Brussels, which houses the main institutions of the European Union, plus a NATO headquarters, etc., there is a very large floating population, a population that is not registered in Brussels capital and therefore does not pay its taxes there. With this, with the taxes of registered persons in Brussels we have to face up to offering a series of services to a much larger population (I am talking about hundreds of thousands) than those who are registered. I therefore believe that it can be perfectly similar to that, and it has to be, of course, a collection that, I insist, has to go to expenses of cleaning, security, traffic, conservation and impulse of cultural, historical and artistic heritage. And that's our position. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u47	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to answer a direct question that Mrs López de Ocariz asked me about how it is being done that a tourism law includes the possibility that the municipalities of the Autonomous Community can set a tourist rate. Well, I've never drafted a law, I was unloading trucks, but I'm going to ask your colleagues at Donostia City Hall, who passed a motion by my colleagues from Equo and Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, and Irabazi, who literally said that: that the City Hall Plenary "invites the municipal government to take as many steps as it deems appropriate for the future The Tourism Act includes the possibility for the municipalities of the Autonomous Community to establish a tourist rate for overnight stays." I'm sure you'll give me the phone number of your colleagues at the city hall, and they'll tell me how it's done. Well, in any case, we did not bring a proposal for a law, we brought a GNP, and I have already said in my speech that it was a precisely open GNP so that there would be no beatings, so that there could not be excuses in order to reach agreement on the need to urge the Government to already address this issue; that, as has also been said by all groups, it is an old issue. It seems that, even if it is an old subject, we have to continue to reflect on the subject, someone even tells us that there has to be more participation, or that maybe we should convene a popular assembly to discuss this subject, I don't know... And it has been said by several speakers that we have been talking about this issue for a long time, 2013, and so on. I am not going to say that the work that other people have done before is better or worse because this issue has not yet been resolved, but what I am going to say is that, if it has been talking about this issue for so long, how is it possible that nothing has been done, and that when an initiative is brought in to urge the Government to bring forward a proposal, an initiative that is also open, offering that there are no deadlines, including that all the contacts be made with the agents that are needed (public, private, with Eudel, with the municipalities, etc.), so it is said that no, because we must establish such an interlocution beforehand. Our amendment states that this dialogue should take place, and if there was a will to agree on our amendment, our initiative, it would not set time limits and, therefore, there would be plenty of time to establish that dialogue with guarantees, and not finally make a bad proposal. It is not true that the request to be included in the Tourism Act should be raised later. It was done before; the City Council of Donostia did so before that law was passed, in time. And we do not share that, if approved, some municipalities may be harmed. However, our initiative already includes talking to Eudel, and, as we have been discussing this issue for a long time, it seems to us that those municipalities that consider that they may be harmed also had time to express themselves. But of course they can be expressed. If you tell me why you're going to be harmed... then, well, we certainly don't see it. And you ask me what happens if then it gets wrong, that you have to do things right. If our initiative is an absolutely open initiative, it urges the government to do things by leaving it absolutely free! Well, you're in the government; I say you'll at least consider that you're going to do things right. So, I don't know why you see that risk. I understand that you would see that risk if I put it to you in what I propose a number of requirements that you do not share, but that risk does not exist. And you're also talking about medals. Look, I registered this initiative in May, and we haven't been in the press once with this issue. For me this is a question that to hang medals me with this not. I mean, with something else... but not with this. We defend this position because we believe that the tourist rate is really a good initiative, because we have seen it elsewhere in Europe, as has been said here, where it has been with it for years and where the results are positive. That's why we brought her. I haven't talked about anything public or private on this occasion. I don't know if they might have prepared it, because it is something that I really care about, but I haven't talked about anything public or private. Look, our initiative is an initiative that, it has been seen, the Basque Nationalist Party shares. In the explanation, when he explained what the Basque Nationalist Party defends about the tourist rate, it is what we bring in our initiative! What we bring to our initiative, with a period of three months – which I have already said was no problem for us to remove that period – but it is that initiative. I can understand that they have differences between the partners of the government, it is also normal, but today they have not dared to take the step. I believe that sooner rather than later, I hope that we will have this debate again, and I hope that later the tourist rate will be approved, because it is good, and then we will see why and why some groups were reluctant to raise it. But this was a good initiative. It was an initiative that did not hold hands with the Government, which was not an initiative to attack the Government, but was a positive initiative, which are calling for important municipalities, which will not have a negative impact on other municipalities, and which will be good for society as a whole. And it goes along that line that actually certain extra expenses, which are real... That is true, Donostia is not the capital of the world of tourism in terms of massification, I have not come to say that, but it generates expenses that should not be borne by the set of neighbors and neighbors of the neighborhoods. And as I say Donostia I say Zarautz, or that municipality that considers it opportune, because it does not impose. Whoever doesn't think it's appropriate doesn't have to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u48	Finishing up, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u49	... implement this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u51	Spain has seventeen autonomous communities, and this tax is being applied in two autonomous communities. Seventeen in two. This is not a majority application, it is rather a minority application. In Spain, which we are an eminently tourist state (more than 75 million tourists in 2016, and this year will be 10 or 12% above), it seems that this had to be an almost majority application, for the kindnesses that you announce to us. Look, some problem must have, some problem must have when Andalucia said no. Other autonomous communities that have much larger volumes of tourism than ours do not have the debate on the table. Valencia has it now, Canarias already said not in its moment, and now it seems that someone wants to take it back. What we are telling you, and I agree with Mrs Corcuera, is that this must be valued between administrations and the sector, and that is where we are. Mr Casanova, I know that it bothers you that the People's Party, the People's Group, has reached agreements, you have already told us on other occasions, and I am not surprised, because so many years are trying to eliminate us, and that today we are still here defending the rights of Basque citizens, it has to hurt you, it has to hurt you a lot. That seems to be what his attitude shows. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u52	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u53	Madame Corcuera, in the proposal of the EH Collectors, and in the correction of it, was not necessarily said that this ceremony was to be discussed in all the townships. We only asked for a proposal from the government to bring with us about the tourist rate. But we didn't say that the rate was necessary in every respect. And I know you won't get tired. Yeah, what I know about her is she's not gonna get tired. Sounds good to me. He's not tired of defending the government, he's in his role. I'm not gonna get tired either. What happens is that, besides you saying why yes and me why not, I'm going to try to make arguments, make arguments that prove... You too, but I think mine have more weight. [[Berber]] Because, look, both of you... Listen to me, and then you'll value him and see if he's able to fight back. In the two fundamental aspects of tourism policy in this country, the Government has profiled itself, the Government is going to tow, the Government has hidden its head like the ostrich. In the tourist flats it had to be a motion of EH Bildu, and in the tourist rate a proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos. And what has the government done at this time? Put on a profile, whistle looking at the roof, and wait for problems to pass. And it is indeed held to account when it is other groups that bring hot debates to this House with proposals. Mr Uribe-Etxebarria spoke earlier of the case of Brussels, which is obviously a city with a huge floating population, and it is precisely the city that I do not know if of the world, but of Europe, which has the highest rate precisely because of the disproportionateness between habitual residents and floating population. And it is true that I believe that there is a consensus here, listening to all the groups, that tourism and that floating population actually generates extra costs on services that the City Council provides on a regular basis to residents financed by the fees paid by residents, and therefore there would be a need for this extra funding. And on the other hand, as we know, there are cities and villages in this country that do not have such a high presence of tourists, where there would be an important margin of tourist growth but perhaps they do not have sufficient resources to highlight certain heritage, architectural or natural elements that could really be used to strengthen their tourist offer. Therefore, we have the need. And there is this possibility of implanting the rate. And you have not gone to make a closed proposal, a tax proposal, a proposal that sought not to agree or put you in a bind. If Mr Hernandez has already said so! If they have tried to negotiate in order to be absolutely flexible, absolutely flexible and taking into account what the Government says, what the parties that support the Government say, so that it can come out of here, that is, a commitment to the possibility that the municipalities that they want can implement the rate! Because what is not a hypothesis is that there are already municipalities that are asking for it, and in the face of that reality what we wanted is for that door to be opened. And then, from the debate with all the social actors, of course, the most appropriate formula would be determined. And you have on the table an open offer and you have rejected it. He says we're obsessed with deadlines! Man, is that a proposal, to be proposed, has to have at least two things: objectives, and content. And he says, "No, it's just that we don't have to set deadlines, and, well, the goal is to debate." I, after listening to you, Mrs. Corcuera, if I wasn't implanted in multiple cities around the world the tourist rate, would think that it's really impossible, that you have to give it so many turns and revolts... And he tells me that since 2013, as an argument in favor of his position, since 2013 we have been turning around. Of course! And with the proposal that you are going to adopt here, in 2025 we will continue to turn it around. So, what we wanted was for the will to allow the municipalities that are already requesting it – which is not a hypothesis, I repeat, is reality – to be set, the will that these municipalities could implement the tourist rate. And, on the other hand, the articulation of a debate, within the time limits that were deemed appropriate, so that such implementation would achieve the maximum consensus and gather the contributions of all actors who are called to participate. Nor do I understand how the rate affects neighbouring municipalities. I guess he'll clear it up for us. Because if it were actually to abolish some kind of tax or fee that would make it possible to make a cheaper offer, or an unfair offer, then, in that case, we would have to regulate and avoid such unfair competition, but in this case a municipality that places a fee theoretically what it does is to be in worse condition. Then we see that empirically what is shown is that that rate the tourist today almost understands it as a label of quality of destination, because that rate is put by the destinations that actually have a great influx and the destinations that involve the attraction for many people to go, and also that "they can afford it" – in quotes – because it really does not represent an element of deterrence. And, I mean, we're not talking about an experiment. We are talking about something that is empirically contrasted, proven, and whose effectiveness is everywhere in the world. I don't understand that, when the counselor said that he was in favor of being implanted in the municipalities he wanted, the former counselor also said that he was in favor... I do not know if the problem is that there is no agreement between the parties that support the government, or that there are certain lobbying lobbies that you do not leave, because that would already be ugly. Because the political disagreement has its logic, but that some are pressing and conditioning the action of the public authorities, beyond what is theirs as an employer's contribution from a given sector, that would no longer be so good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u55	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Casanova, of course neither the Socialist Party nor the councillor... nor any lobby or pressure. To make it clear to you. I do not speak for the rest, but for myself and for my party and for the counselor I can speak and say it clearly, in this rostrum and publicly. Let's see, your mantra: lack of leadership in the Council, in the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. Well, look, don't! No way! Because if all your arguments are the two aspects that seem to you to be fundamental in the subject of tourism, which are the housing and the tourist rate, there must be no more... Counselor, calm, there are only two of them. Relax. So, two matters, one of them has been solved by you. Lie. Lie. The one about the tourist homes, lie. It is not Bildu's motion that saves the issue of tourist accommodation, and smiles, but it is true, it is true. Because you are guilty and you have what they call sin, because you, so fervent advocate of the famous Tourism Law, if it does not come to be because of the appearances of this boycotter, as you said yesterday, who raised a series of appearances from many sectors of the tourism field, would not have realized what the problem of tourist accommodation was. It's on tape, you can see it. Thanks to the fact that two platforms came here that carried the theme of tourist homes and tourist apartments you found out what the problem was. You found out then. Don't tell me not because it's true. So, of course, first argument. His motion was in keeping with the plan that the counselor himself proposed to him to give him an answer to an inquiry. Yes, Mr. Casanova. I know it hurts, but I'm giving you my arguments. You gave them yours, you said they were the best. Well, mine are better than yours, much better. And I'm also telling you why. The councillor himself proposed a plan for tourist accommodation, which you jumped to the toaster when you raised your motion. He exclusively cared about the census of illegal tourist homes. Exclusively. Now, then we had to come to what the others were asking for to arrive at a transaction, and it was that the advisor's plan was indeed reflected in that transaction. First topic. Second theme, tourist rate. Hey, you didn't bring her, you brought her, we can! That's for starters. I mean, don't come in here from the homeland, because that's not the case either. Tourist tax raises me Podemos. Look, the tourist rate is not the fundamental element for the tourist issue, certainly not. It will agree with me that it is not one of the substantial elements. It may be one more element of collection from the municipalities, but, of course, it will not be the philosophical stone that will find all the municipalities for collection, because they do not depend on that tax, insurance. Your big income doesn't come from there, it comes from taxes like the IBI, for example. That's where municipal income comes from. And, therefore, this rate is a minimum issue, important, because it is a plus. And Mr. Hernandez told me, "Why hasn't he set himself up before, because you've been debating it since 2013...?". Listen, I repeat to you again: because there was a crisis, an economic crisis, and to raise a tourist rate, which meant one more tax, could be a disincentive to the promotion of tourism. That's the problem. It could discourage tourism, that was the issue and that was the cornerstone of the whole issue. It's not because we are a gang of denied and denied, because I don't believe it, but that's what happened, and that's why we couldn't have posed to the municipalities, that quite a lot of crisis lived, the fact that we're going to implement a rate, to see who can benefit from it. But it is true that the situation, the economic situation, has changed, has changed, and that is why what we are proposing today is that, first, the reflection can be more calm; secondly, we can determine, if the biggest affected people consider this to be the municipalities themselves, if they consider it appropriate, the rate can be set. And the private sector too will have to say something and will have to be involved in this system. Because how is it going to be collected? And it's that in many places they said, "No, no, it's that it's very clear; here it is collected by overnight stays." Well, no, because in some other places they are collecting, in addition to overnight stays, cruises, and they are collecting it by the tour operators; elsewhere they are already talking about surcharge for tourist homes as a tax... That is, there are variants in what can be how to collect that tax and through what figure. So, this isn't that simple, eh! Here we don't come up with that we're going to solve the issue of the rate in a pleat-flat, three months..., that's it, I'll put it. Said and done, and all the municipalities to collect like crazy. Well, no. Well, no. And it is very important that the private sector is involved, absolutely fundamental, because, if not, we will not even know how many overnight stays have been made, how many cruisers have come, how many tourist homes are paying their surcharge... And for all this it takes complicity and seeking the complicity of all those agents, beyond pure voluntarism, which I understand in the proposal of Podemos... I didn't want to tell you that I wanted to hang the medal. No, no! Not at all! He said it's not a matter of the councilman hanging a medal because he goes further than other councillors and says, "In Euskadi we're going to put a fee." It's not about that. With what we are doing is with a cautious vision, of having a debate and a reflection, and when the sectors concerned say exactly "We want a rate", listen, go ahead, and then we can circumscribe the debate to whom, how and when that rate is collected. That is what we were going to say, and I have had to express myself very badly in my first speech. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Well, Mr Casanova, on the agenda for today's sitting, in item 8, we have a discussion on a non-legislative proposal on the subject of tourism and all the events that took place in August. Well, then we'll see who has the lead and who doesn't, and we'll check it out. So now I'm not going in and I'm leaving it for point 8. Eta Hernández jaunari, I insist on the position of the PNV: the PNV is in favour of allowing and enabling the implementation of a tourist rate, but – and there is no contradiction with the Socialist Party – it is necessary, first, to reflect together with the municipalities through Eudel, and with the sector. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u58	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the American popular Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors signed by the Euccanists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u59	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Mary, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muninka, a member of the Popilative Groups, had been introduced by the members of the legislature, in order to prevent the infection of the 25th soil of June, and to wipe out what was polluted by the rules of the law of 4/2015. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. lópez de Ocariz. She has the word to present and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, in the question that we presented in June to the Minister for the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, we referred to the law adopted on 25 June 2015 for the prevention and correction of soil pollution. And we asked him first about the regulatory development that this law requires, to which we were told that, well, that they were in it, that they were in the process of the decree. And secondly, he told us that in this transit, while the decree is being passed, and in the interest of the best application of the law, various technical notes have been published from the department, whose content will subsequently be incorporated into the decree, thus avoiding any legal vacuum and promoting legal certainty, both of the Administration and of those administered. But in the interpellation we also pointed out to him the complaints that have come to us from various business areas, from trade unions, promoters of activities to develop in the industrial estates of the Basque Autonomous Community, and other agents, who complained of the delay and delay in responding and giving way to the soil pollution files; companies who call showing impotence in the face of the non-response of the administration. We asked him if they were looking for solutions to this situation of stuckness and delay in responding to the files of applications on contaminated soils. The advisor told us that the average number of entries of files in the contaminated soil area since January 2017 amounts to 75 files per month, when the usual was between 30 and 50 files per month. In other words, the number of monthly files to be dealt with in the contaminated soil area has almost doubled. In the reply, he insisted on the need to respond quickly to the administration and not to cause problems due to the inability of the Administration, and we asked him what measures he was going to take. To what the counselor said that the law provided thirteen jobs to attend to this service and these new types of files, and that it needed eight more to be able to attend to the service completely. And, as it could not be otherwise, he was also complaining about the Government of Spain, right?, and the freezing of staff. But the counselor set me up. Because what the advisor did not say is that most of the processing of these files is done through Ihobe, with an economic allocation for Ihobe to hire companies. That is to say, the Spanish Government has had little influence here in terms of boosting the management of these dossiers, Mr. Counsellor. And that amount of money earmarked for this management of the dossiers has been reduced, because far from rising. Therefore, we fully understand that there is an impasse. That is why the motion we put to you and the agreement we have reached with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, which has tabled an amendment that seems to us to be timely. The Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, too, do not know why they have not signed the compromise amendment, because in some way their initiative is reflected in the compromise amendment. But, well, I'm not going in; I think they're going to vote for it, or, if not, they'll say it. Anyway, I think we're on the same page, and the amendment we've come to, on the one hand, on the one hand... And I liked the contribution of Podemos, in the sense of considering that work against soil pollution is a major challenge for Basque society and its administrations, not only because of its potential prejudice to the health of the population, but also because of its implications for the urban and economic regeneration of our towns and cities. That is to say, we are not simply dealing with the work that has been done since the development of the law, since the application of the law and the rules that affect soil pollution, is to protect the soil, to generate much cleaner soil than at the time, which has been contaminated by various circumstances, and to improve the territory. And that's a very important task, because pollution stays there permanently, and if we don't do recovery work we'll hardly get an improvement. Therefore, it seems to us very important that we also have and assume awareness of the need to treat soils, maintain and recover contaminated soils, and that is a very important task. And for that in the administration we need means. Technical means from companies that are hired, because I recognize that there are dossiers where a degree of technique is needed that the Administration cannot have, and that it is hired outside. And on the other hand personal means, to give agility to the processing of these files. We also say in point 2 that "Parliament urges the Basque Government to commit the financial, material and personnel resources resulting from the implementation of Law 4/2015 for the prevention and correction of soil contamination in the preparation of the 2018 budgets in order to enable the Government to provide an adequate response in time and form to the files on contaminated soils processed as a result of the enactment of the said law and its development regulations". And we also say that "Parliament urges the Basque Government to establish a public procedure to organise the management of the files resulting from the application of this law, in order to avoid unjustified delays in its resolutions". I think we have to give guarantees to the administrator, and when a citizen goes with a file to an administration office he has to know what deadlines they are talking about, what period of time, what the delays may be, or go tell him how his file is going. Because for today I can assure you that there are quite a few projects that are in limbo, they do not know where their file is, and at what stage of the process. I therefore believe that this needs to be improved, more than anything in order for the administrator to know whether or not this dossier is complex, and what procedure it is taking and at what stage the dossier is at. And since we have an agreement, I'm not going into a debate with anything. We are very happy with this agreement, which I believe can be a majority in the House, and then what remains for us is to have powerful budgets, so that your department can carry out all those functions that it has mandated by law. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u62	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. The issue of soil pollution arises some twenty-five years ago because of the impact of certain international cases and because after the Euskadi industrial crisis there are ruins, hundreds of industrial ruins, which can lead to processes of soil pollution, and it must be said that here in Euskadi the government, the administrations react in a positive way. There is a combination of factors in Euskadi. On the one hand, the institutional leadership of the Department of Environment, at that time led by Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the emergence, the existence of a group of high-value and qualified professionals, who at that time are prepared to deal with the problem. This combination of factors gives rise to the existence of bases. On the one hand, an institutional consensus that fosters the emergence, the promulgation of a policy of soil protection. On the other hand, the existence or dedication of sufficient human, material and economic means, which promote the formation of interdisciplinary working groups. All this policy results, on the one hand, in quantifying the soil problem through a potentially contaminated soil inventory; secondly, in designing action tools through technical and methodological guides to diagnose, evaluate and correct soil pollution problems; thirdly, in prioritizing responses through a soil quality master plan; fourthly, in financing actions; and fifthly, in preventing the emergence of new cases through the enactment of a soil protection law. At that time, Euskadi was a model not only in the state, but in many parts of Europe, of how things had to be done in the area of soil pollution. But twenty-five years later, several of these factors have disappeared. On the one hand, there is no longer the institutional political leadership that existed. Successive governments (and I am not going to focus on one in particular) have limited themselves to managing the scarcity of resources that has caused us by the crisis and other factors. Thus, the budget referred to by Mrs López de Ocariz, of public society Ihobe, for the management of soil files, has gone directly to half, when the number of files between 2010 and 2016 has almost increased by 50%. On the other hand, there is no longer the institutional momentum that existed. It gives the feeling that either the problem no longer exists, or that it is linked. And nothing further from reality: the last inventory of potentially contaminated soils listed in 12,500 the plots that Euskadi has affected by this problem. Almost 16% of the Euskadi area is affected or has been able to suffer from a soil contamination process, may be potentially contaminated. Therefore, we have a problem that continues today. A problem that continues and that poses two types of risks. One, a risk to people's health. It is already known to all and all the lindane, but there are other issues such as chlorinated solvents, heavy metals, asbestos and other contaminants, many of them carcinogenic, that are and may be on many of those plots, of those 12,500 plots that are still being inventoried. This can cause contamination of water for human use, river channels, public parks, children's playgrounds, urban spaces, and it is a problem that continues to remain. On the other hand, we have a risk for the development of human activities themselves, and hence the economy. Because those plots that are still listed, which are mortgaged by this environmental liability, prevent urban development or hinder urban development in many cities, in many villages, and therefore force these towns and cities to colonize new soils, natural soils, agrarian soils, non-urban soils, which is irresponsible management of a scarce heritage that exists in Euskadi as is soil. From Elkarrekin We can, seeing the initiative of the People's Group, we have made it clear that it was an opportunity to give a helm to the current situation of soil protection policy in Euskadi, and we therefore tabled an amendment with three legs, three fundamental initiatives, which are the ones we have agreed with the People's Group. Firstly, recognizing once again, twenty-five years later, that the problem of soil pollution remains a country's priority, remains a major social and environmental challenge. Secondly, that, according to this country challenge consideration, for the 2018 budget, adequate material, human and economic resources are devoted to this issue and are needed to carry out the government's work. Thirdly, a public procedure should be set up to manage pending cases. Because, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, they are giving rise to conflict, and we understand that, in the interests of the transparency that this Government enacts, transparency in management, transparency in public information, it is necessary to enable a procedure that regulates all this activity so that all these conflicts of interest are avoided. We understand that these three measures that we have agreed with the Group of the European People's Party should be supported by the whole House, not by the means themselves, but because, as I have explained, this must be a country challenge that must remain outside the political confrontation. Obviously, many issues could be put before the governments that in the last few legislatures have let go of that momentum that we had twenty-five years ago, but it is not the time to focus on that right now, but to take up that momentum and get this problem to stop being so, and become a country-specific challenge to solutions again. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u64	Thank you, President. And good morning, almost good afternoon already, everyone. Indeed, Mrs López de Ocariz brings us an initiative today to this plenary on a topic that was already discussed during the entire drafting of the law, when it was adopted in 2015, and on which different initiatives have been gathering in their different forms: questions from the past legislature, requests for information..., which culminate in an inquiry to Mr Arriola a few months ago. Indeed, it is an outstanding issue. The law dealing with soil pollution was passed unanimously in the House on its day. It was not too difficult to reach agreement on the adoption of that bill, since all the parliamentary groups that participated in that paper understood that it was something to be done. Euskadi has an industrial fabric that has also marked the situation of its soils, and indeed had to act on them, and much more will have to be done. As has been said here, the dossiers do not stop coming to the Basque public administration, it is true that they are becoming more and more, and in order to solve this situation it is necessary for clear action to be taken by, in this case, the department led by Mr Arriola. The fifth additional provision of this bill was the adoption of a strategy for protection, conservation and restoration, which is at the heart of what the People's Party was bringing us today. Indeed, Mrs López de Ocariz, you know that we will vote in favour of the amendment that you agreed with Mr Becerra de Elkarrekin Podemos. We will vote in favour because we believe it is necessary, because, as I say, I believe that today it is not so much the debate on what the real content of this strategy is, or what the law asked of us, but how it is done. We all agree that this must be done, and I will therefore not go too far in explaining how this situation has been achieved or what the current situation is like, but we must all put a solution to this. At the beginning of this legislature, the elaboration of this fair strategy was under way. This government arrives in December, it is when Mr Urkullu appoints the councillors, and at the beginning of 2017 it is when this strategy begins to develop. That maybe I should have started earlier? For surely you know, as I do, that this strategy is very complicated, that it is much more than going to work for the development of this law, and that indeed that had begun and Mr Arriola's department is working on it. We must reformulate the priorities of planning also in this case, and it is important to set deadlines, which we have already been talking about by the different parliamentary groups, but we understand that they must be real deadlines, because then it is when the non-compliances arrive and when the advisor of the branch is called to tell him why he has not met. That is why we understood, well, that we need to talk about clear and reasonable things. Why haven't we signed the amendment? For something as easy as it was registered before you could almost – you know – reach a final agreement. That is the reason, but of course nothing to do with not agreeing with what you proposed. It is true that we understood that perhaps it would have been better to put "the possibility of increasing will be valued", because you know as well as I do what budgetary negotiation is afterwards, and you know that it is not only up to the parties that make up the government, but you have a lot to say about that. We share the view that there is a need for a budget item that is larger than that which has been taken in previous budgetary years, but you will also know that when the time comes to negotiate, to see whether it is true that it is a priority and to see whether it is true that Mr Arriola is given the budget item he needs, because it does not only have to do with what the Socialist Parliamentary Group says. Therefore, the law was agreed unanimously, today the amendment seems to be agreed unanimously, and we will see what the final content of that strategy is. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, the department led by Mr Arriola, recognizes the need to move forward on this, knows that the soil of the Basque Autonomous Community has suffered from the type of industrial fabric it has, and it is time to be able to take advantage of these soils to continue building a country. Because sometimes we strive to set up companies or set them up on soils that have never had anything, and let die soils that could actually have a major industrial activity. We would therefore like to congratulate ourselves on the agreement; trust, of course, that the Government will fulfil the mandate that that fifth additional provision says, and we will wait for you in the budget negotiation, so that you too will carry out what you say is so important. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u65	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u66	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, congressmen. Well, here's the selection introduced by the Populars, the consequences of the 2015 law. Well, a lot of things have been said here and I'd like to remind you of some precedents first. Before the law of 2015, the 2005 Law, which was not to be polluted and polluted, was admitted into this parliament. It's been a drug to protect human activity and natural resources. The Euskal environmental police are already more than 30 years old and we've been working on it all these years. It may not have been the same push in all the decades, but it must be said that they have been driven along the track of permanent Euskadi development. Another precedent is the 1998 Law, the Environmental General Law. The first was that the public administration of the air, the water, and the soil should be applied by public administration, and that it was evident that the use of the soil was to be performed in a constant manner. Undoubtedly, the 2005 Law, supported in this legislature, has been a point of inflexiancy, and this is why the qualities and activities of the Euscataian soil have increased. In 2008 we have the European directionalization of Mark, which consequently changes the law of the state by transposition. And we see that it has lasted 10 years and that, in the practical application of the law, it is necessary to change openly. And, as has been said here, the law of 2015 was unanimous. There was unanimity for the adoption in this Parliament of the 2015 Law on the Prevention and Correction of Soil Pollution. That's why I think over the last thirty years... Once we recognized that after a strong industrial activity in our territory, it was necessary to limit this contamination of the soil through prevention and correction. It should be noted that the 2015 law has as its main premise the simplification of administrative burdens and the maintenance of quality standards in Euskadi. And to emphasize that this law, by classifying activities according to their pollution potential, decreases the intervention of the Administration, while ensuring the transparency, efficiency, economy and effectiveness of the actions. The aim of this law is to simplify the processing of administrative processes related to soil quality, and, very important, the principle of non-custodial treatment is established, which entails the rationalization of human resources needs for processing. I recall again that Euskadi has been a pioneer in dealing responsibly with the contaminated soil problem derived from that intense industrial past we have had, but I also remember that in those years there were no tools or technical knowledge to act and know how we had to correct that soil condition. Well, the cause of the motion is that this law provides for a subsequent regulatory development for the systematization of the instruments necessary to know and control the quality of that soil, which, as the environmental adviser, Mr Arriola, told us, will culminate in the adoption of the decree to develop this law, Law 4/2015. We believe that this regulation, because of its special significance on citizens and businesses, requires an analysis of the demands and proposals of the agents of the sector, and we understand that after two years of passing the law, there is a time to see what issues need to be improved. And in this sense, when Mrs López de Ocariz asked for this development decree, regulations that have to be carried out, I must remember that the branch's Sailburu told us that they expect them to be by the end of this year. It was the time frame that had been more or less set, upon adoption of the law, for the development of the decree. And, well, with regard to the broad complaint of the promoters of activities, who see that there is a delay, a delay of the exits in the resolution of these land files, that is, as we have been told with data. That, well, the entry of files in the area of contaminated soils since January of this year has been increasing; which is a good indicator, as it tells us of a revival of the economy, of economic activity and of the generation of employment. Well, with this proposed amendment... That, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group has said, it has not been a failure to sign, but there has not been time before it was registered, since we had a precedent that seemed to us to be right. We are going to vote in favour, so that all the needs for the completion of this decree and the instruments of development are valued, so that the files that are coming in and those that are in need of exit are speeded up. And, well, I point out again that... Mr de Elkarrekin said We can say that at other times, on the resolution of the problem of potentially contaminated soils, there has been a greater impulse. Well, at every age, I believe, there have been different circumstances, and with that in mind it has been the impetus, but I have made a compilation of the regulations adopted in this Parliament, and since the 1990s, since we have found that there is a problem, the government has been working on the resolution and adaptation of regulations in order to solve these problems. I believe that all groups are aware and aware and busy and concerned about this problem. In fact, Law 4/2015 was adopted unanimously, which gives me evidence that we are all in favour of proceeding with the procedures. And, as the Councillor has told us, the Government is working on it, and we believe that the negotiation of the budgets for the following year is the time when we must shape the needs arising from this law. And we will vote in favour of the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Otero, representative of the EH Collect Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u68	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. Well, tell him we'll vote for the middle-way. And the reason is very simple, because we agree with what is said. It's three accounts. On the one hand, it's a challenge, a question of the infected soil, that it's a challenge and that it's accepted. On the other hand, the bill will be put on the table to keep the law, or it'll be asked for fun to put the money in the budget. And on the other hand, public control appears to us to be good in processing, and in respect of transparency. In fact, we all agree and we can leave him here, but I'd like to take advantage of a couple of things around the subject. And I won't talk too much about infected soil. I appreciate the work I've done. In June, Mme. Ocarez introduced different initiatives, and seems to have been very interested in the matter. On June 8th, he asked a few questions about the file of the gas station. On June 15th he made an interpenetration, and in it the growth of the law was demanded, and that is why his name is called motion. And then the company said they were concerned and there was a discussion with Arrian. And so he introduced a motive. But even a few days later, some questions are asked about the files around the infected soil. So much interest. It's true that we've missed him in this... for the interest of the corporations, as it were, has been placed there all the habits, and in general the surrounding area is so affected by the infected soil, and its consequences, that we have missed a little in the whole course of the proceedings, have we not? And I am grateful to the Podemos team, because Josephra Artaga has put his hand in it, because the proposal we made at first didn't like it so much, because in the first place, it is about the development of the law, and in your original proposition nothing is said about it. And then, when they say, "it's the same thing as the cuentata de registro de entroda," it doesn't seem to us that the procedure is very useful, considering that there are levels of contagion, the infected soil having various levels of contagion and a priori differences, as we saw yesterday at the commission with the litone. And we didn't like it much, but we think it's a pretty much better thing that's left. In the end, even the socialists and the Jesuits will succeed, but in the explanation of Beolaza I have not very clear what was the cause of your amendment. Things have been doing well, things are doing well, and things are going to be all right, and that's clear to me. But after that, your amendment was good, I don't know why, and that you will vote for the others and I don't know very well why. I've missed that explanation. And I wanted to say a couple of things about this, because at last we realize that the facts have been given, and I don't want to repeat them all, but some things can be clearly seen in the questions. And it's a fact that, in works made to carry the files-and in order to carry them forward, you can see a history of how many performances have been performed. And it's easy to see how in 2011 and 2012 the same or the same as in 2016, but the money that was used for them, the money that was used to carry out the files, is much diminished. And what's happening to us is with environmental issues all the time. And I think we must here reflect a little more deeply, and leave conformity or departure, and here I appeal principally to the Socialist Party. For, I said on the commission, and I'm going to spend my time on this subject, but it seems to me that the money used in the environment or in the environmental area, or in the budgets that are used and adapted to environmental care, has been greatly worn out. The data is huge. And "de aquaellos pollvos, estos lodos." Then, if we don't put the money in Ibith, then I'd better not be able to do the necessary jobs and collect the files, and then there'll be problems in the environment, business, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And there you can see a very clear correlation. And here also I place the value in Łódź's government that environmental issues were quite sufficient to say in this way about the riety of the Reunion, and you can see how, besides the one, there was money between 100 and 150 million dollars in different departments, and in the previous law, these budgets were reduced completely. But totally. Because if we had 2010. in the year, for instance, from a $10315 million dollars budget, if we were to have $130 million of environmental care, which was supposed to be the budget of 1,26, at the last year, at the budget we're using for 2017, we have, uh, over 180,000 dollars, 70 million, $163 of the budget. Klaro, if we take half of the money off, we can't do it later. And here, it's happened three times. When the Arrian introduced himself to the commission as a councillor, he used the following sentence: "Ya me was a mí disponder de más dinero, los presupustos son los que sonn." URAko zuzendari berria, Ernesto Martínez de Cabredo, etorri zenean, esan nionean, zuri ere ingurumenaren inguruan genituen errornka nagusiak aipatu nizkizun eta esan zenidan: "For I would already like to have more money and be able to invest more and fix this better". When he came to the URA Martín de Caboro, he said, "I'm a gustari," because the money for the hydraulic works has been reduced to the middle of the last six years, and he said, "I'm a mí." And when the fight was in June, when Mrs. lópez de Ocariz told you what was going on, you said to her: "Qué más me was a mí, que tener mayor template." Klaro, this isn't the desire box. I mean, you're government, and it's clear from us that there's a protection there for pressure. I have often accused that the environment for the Jestla Party has never been an affair of priority, and that has always been reflected in their budgets. I think you too must find your place here, and the pressure must be done a great deal more, and we will demand it for you throughout the whole legislation, because in the end it is in your hands that you are responsible for the environment. You didn't have any reason to say that even when you said that when you were in that intermediary, and here the Poptular party has the sin, it has been spoken of the first sins, and it's true, that in that case you said there are 5 people to do the necessary jobs, and that there are eight people. So it's slowing down the work too, stacking up the files. And if you were right there, then when you said that, or we share this reflection, then, in the end, the Popular Party has collapsed the whole public function for years, and that has been damaged by it too. But it's not just to take care of others, but there are other ways to guide money and personal life. Hence it seemed important to us to-day, as well as to the amendment made by EAJ and by the Socialists, for the amendment said in an increased "valoraremos" and "valoraremos" that all of you know what it means: then let the Government do as he pleases. And then there was no mention of the personal, "medios tecnicos o lo que sea," but about the personal... Hence it seems to me that Podemos' skill or hand has been in a good way. And it seems to me that if you're going to vote for it, then you're going to have to keep these commitments, and that we'll be back there to see that you're doing it. Just go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Does someone have to participate in the answer shift? Yes, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u70	Yes, Madam President. If you'll excuse me, from the seat. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Becerra's amendment, because I think it has been very important, and also the oral contributions that Mr Otero, Mrs Red and Mrs Betolaza have made. It is therefore a majority agreement and must be reflected in the budgets. And, without further ado, thank you for your contributions. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Someone else... ? Yes, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u72	Yeah. To Madame Beolaza's answer. You said the law of 2015 was an inflammation point. I'd like to remind you that from 2010 to 2016, the file number of files has gone up to 50% and the budget that Ibagoze handles is 50 percent below. So, I think this balance is going to be an inflammation point and we're gonna get that balance in this year's budget. We hope the inflexiation point is reflected in the budget. I have to say to Mrs Red that it is clear that you will have our priority in these budgets this year, but you also have it in the previous one. In which we have right now in force Elkarrekin We have made several amendments to increase the environmental budget, and it was you who put them down with your votes. Therefore, for our part it has always had that priority. They will have to realize that if it is not a priority of the majority partner of the government, it is not the problem of Elkarrekin Podemos, but of the Socialist Party. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u74	Thank you, President. The truth is that I was not going to intervene, so when there is unanimity, we like to burn a little bit the second round, Mr Otero, which you like! That is the end of yesterday's committee, also with unanimity. I don't care, hey! That's a lovely bass! [[Barres]] I'll tell him. "Why have you tabled an amendment, if you were doing everything right?". You don't listen to me! I think I'm down here, you see me, and disconnect. I said that a law had been passed, that a strategy had to be developed, and that the dossiers did not stop coming, and it took more money for this to be carried out. That's what I said. Things aren't doing so well, but there are things left to go, that's what I said. And why have we tabled an amendment? Because Mrs López de Ocariz has brought us a subject, because she is the opposition, we are the government (that is why the initiative has not come from the Socialist Party and has come from an opposition party; let's, as usual, it is the normal thing), then, she brings a parliamentary initiative, we analyze the initiative, and we say, "Well, Mrs López de Ocariz is right." But it would be much better if there was a budget to be able to do so. Because, of course, it's very good that we're defending a subject, but if there's no such thing, money, then it can't be done. So, that is why we – and I have also acknowledged – preferred to put "we will value the possibility of", that the so sharp form that Mr Becerra and Mrs López de Ocariz intelligently, as opposition parties, have proposed, in order to try to pressure, here yes, the government party to reach an agreement. That's why. I mean, there's nothing to make up. There is an initiative, and we have to put forward an amendment in order to be able to negotiate. Because this is not a blank cheque, this is that the government has to see what it is capable of doing, that there is much more behind than increasing a budget line. You have to see how it can be developed. You have to see what level of work there is. And then you said: "Of course, Mr. Arriola, and Mr. Director of URA, were saying I would already like myself. " And you, Mr. Otero, wouldn't you like it? And Mrs. Beatriz Artolazabal would like it, and Mr. Retortillo would like it, and Mr. Darpón would like it... If you go asking all departments, everyone would need or understand that they need more money to develop the policies they want to carry out. But it's just that the money is finite. And then it's not about putting pressure; it's about committing to be able to develop concrete policies. It's not the wish box or the dream box, let alone the bottomless bag. It is that there is a specific money, and that is why I also said in my first speech – see how you don't listen to me – that we have to set priorities. And this was on the agenda. And why should I tell you that I was on top of priorities? Because, just to get Mr Arriola to the government, the first thing he did was to prepare a technical working base document, because he understood that from there it was how he could begin to develop the following. And what was the second thing you did about contaminated soils? He's processing the decree, that decree that he explained to you on the day of the interpellation. Things have been done. Is it still to be done? Sure! And a budget line is needed in order to complete the work. And, having said that, I will say, as I also said in my first speech, that it is time to negotiate the budgets, and that two do not negotiate (as they do not argue) if one does not want to. And so it's very good this from "For us is fundamental the issue of contaminated soils for health...", for all this that we usually tell us, that I share it in general philosophy (then already, if we go down to detail, something else would be), but it is that then we have to sit down with the government party to negotiate, and you are the no for the no, and I tell you again, as on many other issues. It's just that it's fine... I share with you what it comes to say. We can't say "self-congratulation" because it's not true. Why are we submitting an amendment? Because it seems to us that it is more forceful and easier to negotiate, and more real what we were proposing, than what Mrs López de Ocariz originally proposed, which, as I acknowledge, is even more forceful what we are going to vote on here. This is going to come out unanimously, as the law did. The amendment is presented because it is a way of negotiating politically. From the budget, as I have finished my first intervention, welcome either in the negotiation. But you cannot demand and demand to then not commit yourself at the end of the whole, which is what you usually do when the time comes for the budgets to be voted on. Therefore, the Basque Government does not have an ark of bottomless sacks; money is finite, we have to prioritize, and here things have begun to be done. There is a law, there is an additional provision that obliges, and that is why there is a study, a decree, and now the strategy is going to be done. In that is Mr Arriola's department and in that is the government in which you try to see things that do not exist. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u75	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Does Mrs. Beolaza have a word to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u76	From here I will do it briefly, for Mrs. Rojo has said it herself, and I am not going to repeat the same thing over the amendment. And, Mr. Becerra, I said that 2005 law was a pioneer. You say from 2010 that in the Administration there were several different measures in personal life, as we all know, not because the government wanted it, but because it had been a general measure. But I have already observed that circumstances have been in this impulse, but that the pioneer has always been a precursor in beauty and acceptance of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Mr. Otero, over there?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u78	gentlemen I'm short too. I shouldn't have said a word, but we seem to like sharing our opinions. Just a tip. I'm not actually going into an argument, I don't think yours is going into an argument. I believe that it is true..., that I do not know who disconnects or who listens or who does not listen, but, of course, my sincere intention was to give encouragement to the Socialist Party, to the extent that it has the environmental portfolio, when it comes to budgetary negotiation, which I understand must increase. In any case, I do not know if it has not been understood, but I say it more explicitly in case. And to close what I meant, I insist, it's true that the box is not infinite, but it's that I'm giving cash numbers precisely. I am saying that in 2010 we have, on a total budget of EUR 10,315 million, EUR 130 million for the environment, and on a budget of EUR 11,059 million (i.e. with a larger box) we have EUR 70 million for this year, which falls from 1.26% of the budget to 0.63%. So it's not enough to say that money is finite or infinite. We're talking about priorities. Well, if we're talking about priorities, what I'm saying is that environmental budgets have fallen from priority to level: they're in a second, second B, third division..., I don't know which one. And what I'm saying is that you have to go up in class, and that you are not to say "I'd like to have more money," but, indeed, within the coalition of government, to get it. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u79	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquical Populars and the middle-direction that Podemos has signed together. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u80	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law made by the Parliamental team, changing the 13/1988 law of October on the Basque School Councils. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." The Government's discretion is the documentation which has been distributed to you, so that we will simply begin the discussion. On the side shift. One. No one else on the side shift. Counter shift? Okay. Then, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u81	Mrs. President, good afternoon to all. Thank you so much for coming to the debate today. Before we begin with the defence of the law, I'd like to take the first words in Catalonia to support the student, the teacher, the director, the whole education community, the defence of democracy, the defense of freedom and the referendum. Hey, you guys! Ms. Urior, the School Council Act is 1988. He is out of all respects and needs a thorough examination. If the ideological criterion, independently of political criteria, we leave the criteria of education aside, this law, owing to language criteria, requires only a study, it requires an examination, it needs an inquiry, it needs an update, because it is only necessary to see what kind of thorough inquiry and update it requires. Even after a quick reading, he's quick to notice that. From every point of view, from every point of view, from every point of view, from every legal point of view, even from the educational point of view, and even from the language, it is extremely necessary to update it in both cases. We're in 2017 and consider how much society has changed since 1988, and society has changed terribly, but the Board of Schools is still the same as the dynamics, with the same functional. Or, in other words, without adapting himself to new times, or, which is worse, in an impossibility of meeting the future. And it should be in front of the new challenges that education has, and not be able to develop all that potentiality it has. Remember that the organ of education is indeed the highest member of the community of education, but in it all the members of the community of education do not participate in it, and, owing to the southernness of the year, it has become a mere tramite bureaucratic intervention, which has become a mere instrument. When the government's politics is a legitimate instrument, when it should be his own, to open the government's stables, to search for dialogues, an instrument to search for consents. And we are truly convinced that the education system requires a potent council of the Basque School, and that it requires even a powerful council of the countries, and even the powerful councils of the peoples, who are in need of them, because this law speaks of all these councils, not only of the Eucharist, but also of the countries and of the peoples. We are persuaded that the instrument must be essential and indispensable, in which all the operators of education will participate, in the service of the students, in the service of the community, in the service of the community, in the pursuit of common points, and in the pursuit of concert. And above all, to be an instrument that will prevent future romances, a dynamic, a democratic, near, beyond political calculations, Mrs. Uriart, as you say very well without political calculations. He will be connected with the school councils of other countries with the school systems of education, open to the world, because at this moment our High School Council is fairly immune, and all other people have a network of communication, they often exchange proposals, but ours are quite immune, unfortunately. And he who will know the reality of schools and people near him, to be truly aware of the picture of the situation. And that's why we've made this suggestion for all these reasons. We tried to get rich. And how our corrections were not admitted in the proposal for the preceding change of law, knowing that poncency will open, and knowing that we have an excellent opportunity to speak out of all the focuss of the media, to speak calmly, to make all views for the desktop, we have therefore made this legal proposition. We've been trying to make sure that this ancient law of 1988 can be updated and especially looked into the future. But we've made this especially suggestion to be in the position required by the situation, considering our challenge in education. You won't deny, Mrs. Uriart, that we have a tremendous challenge and that the situation demands that we stand at table and that we need all of us. That's why, because we're all in trouble and also in our election program, that's why we brought this proposal. Can't forget that at this moment, when the process of paradigma was to be given, to leave the past and place the education system in future parameters; at this moment, when education authority is to be sought for, or to give a solution to the case of workers in the public network, when it is essential to recover the negotiational nature of the table in the world of education; when politics are to be obtained to answer the complexity of society, why should we apply the model of languages which must be surpassed, when our system is to agree with it, or when it is necessary to free it with all possible, when it is in order to do so as soon as it is at rest? It may be very helpful, and it seems to us that a very useful instrument for the Government, because it is the supreme organ of education to participate in principle. Besides, Mrs. Uriart, the meeting you made about the agreement on Monday and, according to what we learned by communications, you gave the High School Board a paper, gave him a very important paper. But how is he going to fill that paper? How can she fill that paper with all her guarantees if there are not all the personnel of education? There are no directors on the public network, for instance. Not every worker's representative, for instance. It's not classy, for instance. So how can the trial have all its guarantees? Does this government really believe in the High School Council instrument? And what do we propose in this change of laws? In short, what we propose is to democratize the Basque School Council. For instance, we propose that the President should choose, as is the case with the intermediary. Or we propose that the head of the countries should not propose transferments to the Basque School Council among its members. We propose to spread our involvement, because in the High School Council not all the representatives of the educational world are not. For instance, we propose that the directors of the schools should participate, and propose to give access to the schools, as well as to all the representatives of the workers, and the representatives of the university, as well as the representatives of the Parliament. Why? For the full photograph of the education system, and the whole course. That's what we're proposing to remove the corporations from, that is to say, the Confebas and Cebek that participates in them. You think Confebask and Cebek have something to do with education? That they're more important than the school directors? That's where we leave the question. What more do we propose? We propose that the Basques, the Emacsion, and the Medical Department also are delegations. Why? Language view, the view of getting a healthy life, in order to penetrate the genus view into the schools. We also propose to make future challenges, and what we already have in education, the object of the School Council in its functions. I mean, the difference, the inclusion, multiplicity, the formation of teachers, the human resources of schools... We also plan to follow the advice of the School Council to the Government, to continue it, and to publish the evaluation. In other school conferences, in the State School Councils, it's done. Every year reports are made, and they evaluate whether they fulfill the advice they give the government or not. And that gives him another dynamic. We also plan the view of the people, how not. We plan a supernatural association, which will be open to the nation, and also to develop and penetrate the work of Navarro. We also propose to examine language, to adapt education to it. And I'll give you a stupid example. The law takes OHO, the same EGB, and you'll tell me where he stayed. So, to realize how much we need this law to update. In fine, what we plan is to open the discussion, to reflect, to seek interviews, and bargains. And what have we received from this government? Well, what we've got is closeness and denial. Do you really think that's how the interview opens? That's how you look for complicity? Because you've argued that in the judgment our bill of law changes the neglect and nature of the Basque Council. Is that what you really think about? Is that your argument? Or the one behind is a political calculation? Or what's behind is that you don't really believe in this instrument? Or is it really the one behind you that you're not really looking for the involvement? Or that you can't tolerate other people making proposals? Or what's your problem? What's your problem with the parliamentary teams? What's your problem with negotiating and looking for deals? To-day, to give way to discussion, what we do is to get rich alone, to place different opinions on the table, and to be in a position that education really requires. And we'd really ask you to vote and think twice what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. On the other hand, Mr. Faraway, representative of the Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u83	Ma'am, chief of staff, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. We can clearly see that the structure and manner of the School Council is based on a concept of school activity. Part of the Board of Education is taken by the School Council. Parting is a valuable instrument to ensure the rights and liberties of parents, teachers, and, in short, the rights and liberties of the students. The division expands, moreover, the liberty of discipline, the election of the center, the life of a real educational organism in the active process, and its permanence in the resurrection. After all, the opportunity for participation is a bet for a modern education system where the community of education, active and conscientious, is a compatriot of its education. This division is indispensable to a system of education in a democratic society, as all the sectors that touch it. And we believe that this law, with all possible changes, is still useful in its relation to a necessary dynamical and narrow balance between the process of education and society. But the School Council is the School Council. No more and no less. It is the supreme organ to participate in discipline not in college, but it has functions of consultation and guidance. And we shouldn't lose that view even when we propose changes. All proposals were allowed. The consequence of the legal proposition of the Council of the School Council in the present day states that times have changed since the consent of this law, and that the situation is different, but that the School Council has not changed. But the changes proposed may be collected in the following characters. To repeat the language, which may be interesting, and why not be necessary. What already exists and guarantees itself in some way to adapt to one's own vocabulary. Competiting other agents who have not been elected in some elections. The exclusion of a sector, often highlights the idea of the participation of the Basque People in the United States. And to want to change what is an organ of advice, as if it were a crime in the sector. And perhaps we are very wrong, and perhaps in the explanation which Mrs. Ubera has made, our readings and plans are very different, and perhaps our conversation is what we lack. When the propos proposes, at least he ought to give us an account of his proposals. In fact, I don't doubt that we all agree with the Universal Conjectory of Human Rights, which is proposed to enter into the expression. But we do not believe that the instrument of education, and that it is necessary to establish it in a law which is an important instrument. nay, we think there are other places, which are more proper. In a case of education, which is intended to be arranged in this legislation. We might say the same for the other part proposed to the expression. Two. We'd need a national authority that would lead us to the law of education. And in order to accomplish this, there is a party in the case of the open process where the proclamations could be introduced to the section of the general decisions at the head of the pre-named. Considering that a law is always a law, and not an email program. Three. The comparison of other agents who have not been elected in certain elections is dangerous at the very moment. It can break the foundations of a democratic system. The Board of Education is very important and I'll repeat it over to everyone. The institution of education is very important, and it would be very ill for this government, and if any other government were not to consider the opinions and opinions which flow from the jurisdiction of education. But these aren't co-opers. The Government makes its decisions, and owes all the explanations of its decisions in this legislature. On the other hand, it's just that you want to change structure and we understand that he can also have an initiative in making proposals around the university's primitive education systems, to the Euskozoo or, in general, to the different factors of educational community. When once it is not determined what nature the proposals will be, it seems to us not too acceptable to us. Even at the present day, different agencies in the community of education have all the opportunity and the right of making proposals, and so must it be. The question is whether these proposals should be bindings. And therefore we understand, that if, as it is written, we should pretend to make a change, these propositions should be co-opers, because unless they were so, the proposition would have little sense, since it would not be supposed any change. But there is one of the many defects mentioned which may be distinguished from all the rest, and which is partly the government, but especially the corporations, which I ought not to describe as intention, desire, or obsession. And from that furrow there is another curiosity. what is proposed for the article. At the present day the President, who selects among the members of the Council, among the members of the community of education, who are acknowledged to be a member of his knowledge, experience, and career, propose to choose. You don't seem to have enough contact with the members of the Council, but that's not the worst. It's the biggest thing you've got to do with a company agent in this case. And someone might say that we're businessmen, and it's not like that, no, and I'd say no a thousand times. If they were union, we'd say the same thing. It is of no use to come with such proposals, and then to be introduced into the wonderful discourse of equality and incluibity. It's no use to say that we have to do things among all of us, and with an agent, in the representation that we can have, to practice the Bill of Sale. Perhaps when you use expressions like "all of us," you should first define who you are, or who we are at the best. Thank goodness, Mrs. Ubera, you were very civil and wide. And this adds, that what you propose about it is to introduce from each union a representative of the workers who represent themselves in foreign education, regardless of the representation which each union may have. But, to tell you the truth, all this doesn't bother me much, or rather surprise me. You just want to see the idea of the participation of the gathering, when the participation is controlled. You only want to be checked by groups on different fronts of your uniforms, and by two ends. One, to sound you up, to give your message to the civil society or to the appearance of coming from civil society. Or two, when you don't know what to do, often happens, or when you're afraid of making decisions. And five. To change what is an organ of counsel, as I have said before, into a kind of taxation. That's what we've noticed 16th. read the proposal you propose for the article. This is what you say: "At the level of educating the advice you gave me once the report is going to be the year's evaluation report." Advice is advice, and, as I have said before, to want to evaluate and evaluate that level of execution which is to be evaluated in this house, there are ways to evaluate in the legislature. In what way? I'm not going to go through that today. I might have given other reasons, but I think I have given enough arguments to explain why our vote is contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. On the answer shift, Mrs. Ubera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u85	I thought we'd come to talk about the School Council today, but I don't know if we were talking about school councils or something else, but if you want to talk about Aralar and that big civilian, we'll make a suggestion and talk another time, or we'll talk about it (I don't think it's the business of this house). How does that sound like Spanish? "El ladrón cree que todos son de su condicion." I don't know what the Basque School Council really is, what its functions are, and what purposes it ought to be, but we are very well aware that the School Council, as well as the Basque Council, is an organ of advice and recommendation, and that this legislature is the legislative organ, and that the Government is the executive organ. And I'll give you an example. Look, the Navarre School Council does a yearly evaluation report about the recommendations and advice it does to the Government every year. In the end, if we really want to go on, because it's not the prosecutor's job or the prosecutor's work, it's because if we really have to improve it, it's because it's learned from the evaluations, and it allows us all to see what's going on and not what's going on. And this is not who I know whether to blame or not to ask who or not, but to win. And that's what evaluations are for, dynamics. Whether counsels and recommendations are made and not to be seen, or whether the decisions made by the Government are executed or not, &c. As you have said very well, the Basque School Council, the Basque Council, because this law does not only speak of the Basque Council, but also of the country and of the people, it is the highest organ in the world of education, but, unfortunately, all the operators of education do not participate in it. I don't know. Is it a deputator to suggest that the directors of the schools participate? Is it the Expendor to propose to participate in the Basque Guard? Is it the Expendor to propose to participate in the Empire? Is it the Expensive to encourage the Medical Department to participate? I just want to remember that the Medical Department had a health plan in which he wanted to act in every area for healthy habits of life. We're talking about integrated politics. Then it seems to me that everyone has something to do with it, and that we may learn from them all, for often every one comes from a field, and every one has a view, and the putting all these views in common makes him rich, and the proposition makes him better. And, of course, while we propose to include all of them, even the scholars, who are not even educated at the Basque Council, they seem to be an outcast, and the co-operative too. But Confebas and Ceb must be. Confebas and Cebek are at the Council of Hezik, because the Profession is a direct relation to the business world and to the productive network. Then everyone has his own field. But let's go to the councils and the World School Council to give room because it's their territory and they have what's been said and what's been said every day with the students, families, educational systems in schools, and they're running. Because only the government doesn't run. Here runs the schools, the policies run: teachers, parents... Then we have to count on all of them. You'll tell me if that's a diver. And then we tried to find a little more democratic. The intermediary is accepted in this legislature. It is chosen for one of the persons who have zeal in the world of education, and who are expert. Why can't the Government name it instead of the law, as it does with the interrogator? That's just what we're proposing. We proposed it. You don't see it, but you don't even give a chance to discuss it, because if the majority doesn't see it, we don't see it, and it won't go any further, but you've stopped the discussion. The discussion was cut off, for what was only here discussed was accepted or refused, but what you always do is to close the roads to the discussion, to close the roads to the conversation. We have seen it very well in this legislation. Well, we said that the Board of Education has begun to move. It's just a step. It's starting to move. And why doesn't he even begin to move in this parliament? It's not moving. It is a way to give way to the conversation, and, in a sense, to place all the views in it on the table, and to find the consent to make an essay. But this seems to be an inconvenience, because it is an obstacle, and that all the propositions we make are seen by disapprobation and distrust. Look, we've taken a tremendous deal to make this proposal. We've examined the different classes of state schools: Madrill, Murcia, Navarre, Errioxia, Catalonia, Kanta, Castile-Mancha, Castile, Asturiah, Canary Irilla, Andalucia, and so on. I don't know what you've sent me, what kind of work you've taken, and I don't really know if this law, this change of law, this suggestion you've read, but I'm sure we'll have time to talk and talk about it. And we shall continue to place our proposals on the table, because it seems to us that this is the way, that we all have what is said and what is wanted, and that the opinions of all are to be considered. And if any instrument here needs updates, whether it be the Law of the School Council. It's 1988. I don't know if you've read it. It's all the same to read about it, to read it in Spanish. From the language view, even from the legal point of view, it has a terrible necessity of change. Now it was because we had our power open. Well, let's go over and over and over and over and over and then the majority will say. These are the rules of gambling in a democracy, the majority. And this majority of the legislature would say what it was and what it wasn't, even if there were proposals. And sometimes EH Collector won't like what's coming out, but we'll fight to put our suggestions on the table and then they'll come out. And that's what's all about, and that's democracy. But sometimes it seems as if it costs us a great deal to accept these rules of gambling, and when this view of others is somehow brought to an end, we turn to the defensive. But, Mrs. Greart, if you really want to open the way to the conversation, if you want to look for complicity, and if you want to be on the level of the situation, this is not the way. Closeness and denial are not the way. And it seems to us at the moment that the school councils, from the Basque and from the villages, can play an enormous part. That they can play a great part of it, and especially in the future, and give proper answers to those challenges which are already laid upon the table. But it's up to you at last because you're the government that runs. But we will here continue as a group of opposites, making proposals, and taking the trouble to bring all the necessary contributions here, even if you refused.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u87	Mrs. Ubera, your teammate Iriart said she never lied. And I can assure you, I can assure you that I never came to this tribe without reading the things that have been introduced to me. I've read them. Maybe I didn't give him the same interpretation as you intended. That's why we have different interpretations and different views. But that can be solved with dialogue, like a lot of other things, with dialogue. And if we know these precedents, maybe we should explore different ways of interview, which we have not yet explored. And I ask you, are you ready? I am. Because we didn't say we're closed for the interview today, or less. Not at all. What we have said to-day, or the opinion we have given, seems to us not suitable to us as there is a legal proposition. Besides, I've given you a chance to give way to some of the things you propose. Yeah, I told you. Because you don't listen to me. That's the problem. We're often more than talking about monologists here. I told you, and if I can find it literally: "We ought first to have a national authority which ought to have led us to the law of Education. And in order to accomplish this, there is a party in the case of the open process, where the proclamations could be introduced to the section of the general decisions of the pre-named. Always considering... "I don't know. Well, that's not the case right now. I mean, there are spots, let's talk. But I'll tell you what. He who knows a little Euscal politics in general, and also in the matters of education, knows here, almost to form a mantra, a treaty, a treaty, a treaty, a treaty, a treaty, and a treaty, and a mutual interview, to whom he stands, and who does it again and again. And in the very hall of education, in the very hall of education, which is so code and strategic to this country, I do not know whether you, but I listen to Mme. And go on. Then it seems to me that we don't want you to come to our faces, I don't know, I don't know at the very least. And besides, I'll tell you more, I'll tell you more. When we're looking for interviews and defend it, and we want it, and when we defend it over and over again, always in the middle of some epics and adjectives, do you know what we find and how much we're in this sector? The fist shut. And a hand can stretch, but a handshake is impossible with a fist closed. If not, try it. The Expendor. We said he's a diver, and he's an agent who doesn't like you, to put it aside, that's the destroyer. The gift, or the medical department, or the learning department, or, in other words, that's not a debuter, but the other is a debuter. And I would say, I would say, that he has a particular idea in common with society, as I have said before. And you said we're taking it all with distrust... You can't take it! You can't take it! But I'm going to finish it the way I started. This distrust is the only way to overcome this mistrust. And we have a lot of challenges in this country, but I'd say that the first one is from education, and, to overcome it, we'll all have that distrust, there's only one way to get rid of it, talk, not just coming here, confessing to the Jaltist of the Eukian Party, whether good or progressist, whether patriot, or even more than they are, is not the way of making conversation. There are other rooms and rooms in this chamber where I am prepared to spend hours, and probably, like me, many others of our party, and even Mrs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote about whether we consider the legal proposition or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u89	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote and begin with Mr. Barrio, the ex-American Basque Group. Mr. Barrio is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u90	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. At this time of explanation of vote, of course, we will announce the vote against by our group on the proposed law. The amendment to the whole of a proposal for a law is the vote against in this parliamentary round, because it is clear that it is an ideological issue that prevents us, logically, from supporting the process of access of this initiative to the parliamentary channel, to the legislative channel. And of course we share the view of the Government in this case. I think that, in a few lines (sometimes it is better to explain a little more, but in a few lines), he has said something that actually analyzes and defines what happens with this initiative: the total disfigurement of the institution of school councils by the proposal, so that it would make it unrecognizable in terms of comparative law and probably completely ineffective for its end, in addition to violating organic legislation with the discrimination that is intended, by excluding affected social sectors from participation in the forum. It is an unequivocal argument to vote against any initiative that raises these questions of disfigurement of important work, such as that of school councils, of non-accommodation to comparative law, and above all of discrimination of key elements and social sectors in education, key in education, key in the development of our society. We have opposed this reform because we do not agree with the content and substance of it, and Mrs Ubera must fully understand that we do not oppose this reform which she is proposing. I believe he has done so precisely knowing that we were going to oppose this reform. This reform that he proposes does not create, but destroys representativeness and objectivity in the Euskadi School Council and in the Territorial Councils, by some incomprehensible limitation that makes it impossible to understand, and of course we cannot assume it in any case, but not even as an element of debate or dialogue. No, no! It's that we are rooting against that curtailment, that limitation that makes its own initiative. We also see in one of the proposals serious legal difficulties that could be challenged. That would be another matter, but we do appreciate it that way. We, on the other hand, have not detected that there is a need to amend that law in the sense that EH Bildu proposes, in those keys we have not detected needs. We have detected in some of our initiatives, a proposal for a law which my group has tabled and which is now in the process of including representatives of the social economy, educational cooperatives in school councils. This seems to be going to be discussed with some input from other parliamentary groups in relation to the School Council, and taking advantage of the reform and in an orderly manner and in accordance with the rules of procedure, so there is going to be a debate. I think it's going to be interesting and it's going to be enriching the role of school councils. It does not make sense, Mrs Ubera, that eager publisher and interventionist, and the obsession with making the private initiative of all sectors disappear, in this case of education. What is the point of removing representatives who are part of private initiatives at levels and in areas of representation? In addition, social representatives who play a role (entrepreneurials, employers...) in generating jobs, in generating educational, pedagogical and linguistic offers in teaching. What's the point of removing those issues? That's an ideological question, isn't it? I mean, we don't understand that obsession, and we'll vote against it. He said there might be some technical improvement. This is not a technical or linguistic improvement; this is about being an ideological reform that we do not share. We want to strengthen public education, but we also want to strengthen concerted education, because of this very important social role that it has in our society, the private one or the one linked to the social economy, and that certainly does not happen in any way with the approach of the initiative. We do, of course, have large pending subjects in education, we have serious deficits in education, but, Mrs Ubera, your initiative would increase those deficits and the problems of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u92	Yes, thank you, President. Today we find ourselves taking into consideration the proposal for a law made by the parliamentary group of Euskal Herria Bildu on the amendment of Law 13/88 of 28 October of the School Councils of Basquedi, and, if I recall correctly, on 6 April, a few months ago, the proposal for a law made by the People's Group on the amendment of the same law was taken into consideration in the plenary session of that same day, which, I recall, was adopted unanimously in this House, in which the group of Euskal Herria Bildu is included, in that unanimity. We are dealing with exactly the same issue that we are dealing with today, presented by various parliamentary groups. At that session, the People's Group presented an initiative to amend the law, in which we all agreed, since we all voted in favour of taking the proposed law into consideration. Educational cooperatives were not represented, they were not part of the School Councils Act we are dealing with, and our group incorporating the representation of educational cooperatives seemed to us to be a substantial improvement, as it helps enrich the school councils themselves and thereby strengthen something as important as our educational system. There are other sectors that could have been included in that proposal, as far as possible it would have been raised at the time. It still is. It should also be borne in mind that in Euskadi there are many educational cooperatives which represent a huge percentage of our educational system so that they can be represented. This is the main pillar of participation, since the School Council was set up as a consultative body for precisely the participation of the social sectors (that is its main role), so that all sectors of the educational community can contribute, so that they have a voice and their contributions improve the educational system. We also gain in updating, efficiency and efficiency, and that is why the parliamentary groups in this House have tabled partial amendments, which you could have done too. We made contributions through the amendments to the bill put forward by the People's Amendment Group, because we considered that there was a lack of representativeness of some educational agents. That is why we made the changes that we considered appropriate and that will be discussed at the appropriate time, because it must regulate the right to participation and responsibility of the various parts of the educational system. But they are amendments, all of them, which were presented to the bill then tabled by the People's Group, which we are presenting to all the groups in this House, considering that there can only be one law on school councils. We do not understand why, after unanimously approving the proposal and submitting amendments to it, you are presenting the same initiative that was already presented in April. You'll recognize that it's, at least, surprising. And, as I said, since there can only be a law on school councils in Euskadi, we have voted against the consideration of this new amendment. Because I am sure that there is sufficient scope for the current council to gain in efficiency and efficiency, as the current President of the School Council herself acknowledged at the hearing of the Education Commission. He acknowledged that there was room for improvement, to demand more involvement of the current members of the Council, and also to present that annual evaluation report you are talking about in your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. And in the end, Podemos, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u94	Good afternoon. Before I begin my intervention I would like to express our pain, our revulsion and our condemnation of the murder of a woman in the town of Sestao. Our condemnation and our repudiation of all the Machist violence (those that are seen, those that are not seen), and of each and every one of its manifestations, a product, without any doubt, of the inequalities that still exist between men and women. Turning to point 2, it is undoubtedly an issue which generates interest, which generates concern, with the amendment proposal made by the People's Party, which we are voting in favour, and with the proposal made by Euskal Herria Bildu and which we have also voted in favour. It seemed to us, rather than a complete proposal, that it could have its successes and errors, but that it was worth discussing in a paper. And here it is that, although the proposal is from Bildu, then, I have felt..., before these nine lines that the Basque Government has curated to say that no and the intervention of Mr Urrutia, then, have encouraged me to talk about these nine lines. They say it would leave "unrecognizable," it doesn't indicate in what. He says that in terms of comparative law it would be unrecognizable and probably ineffective. Mark him! Mr. Urrutia, you've explained a little bit more, but not a single government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u95	Martinez jauna, Martinez jauna, explanation of vote. I'm ezin' batekin' sartu beasts. Boto-alta.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u96	Well, but with the government, I do. [[Barres]] So, that they would be violated...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u97	It's a vote description, a vote description. That's what "turno a favor" and "turno en" is for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u98	For the meaning of the vote I explain it in the sense that we are against the Government's opinion. We do not understand, it seems to us to be a poor opinion, and that is why it is also contrary to that, because it seems to us that the proposal made by Euskal Herria Bildu can be taken into consideration and can be discussed in a paper, for that is why we voted in favour. The proposals that we would like to make and that we will continue to make, although it cannot now be explained in the broad sense of what I wanted to do at this time, for that presentation, some of them were contained in the proposal made by Bildu, in the sense of a proposal that would increase the effective and real participation of the Euskadi School Council, and also of the municipal councils. Also because it seems to us very important, so much so that in Congress other parties also vote in favour, that the appointments of public bodies be made in parliaments, and because that is an interesting proposal to study. It seems to us that, for example, this School Council lacks student organizations, that there is only one and that there are many more, and we can also include them. And we're going to vote in favour... , and as I cannot explain everything at this point, we are going to vote in favour of that, of this proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, because we think that we cannot curtail any space for debate in which we can put forward models of teaching, models of teaching management, country models. Because, despite some, there are more country models, there are more teaching models, and, despite some, there is Euskadi, there is much Euskadi beyond them and them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u99	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. And I interrupt the whole meeting here until four o'clock. It was two-thirty in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u100	Good afternoon, everyone. For the past events, I will read an institutional expression, and then we shall have a minute's silence. The violence against women, the institutional expression: "The law of Eus is exceedingly and deeply censured by the death of Madame Noellemí, which happened this morning at Sestaon, who has been the victim of another supposed act of violence against women. Also, on the 24th of August we seek to condemn the murder of Mrs. Sophía Tato. "The law offers its help and its condolences to the relatives of the victims and to the brothers of the gold. The Eusgian law disapproves of this death as well as of all the phenomena of violence against women, or of sex. "We assert that sexual force is the most important and striking manifestation of the differences between women and men, that they are the source of the contact of power and of dominion. "The Basque Parliament invites citizens to make personal and collective commitments in favour of equality between women and men. It also urges the institutions, which have a crucial responsibility in their eradication, to develop comprehensive plans with the necessary resources to achieve their ultimate disappearance, so that no acts of violence against women will occur again, let alone murders such as those that cost Noelia Naomi and Sofia Tato their lives." After that we'll have a minute's silence. [[Pause]] The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, about the scale of the environmentary technicians of the Basque General Administration. Discipline and final resolution. It's yours to introduce and get rid of the word, Mr. Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u101	... They will ask why a group like ours brings the issue of the collective of environmental techniques and techniques, given that they are a relatively minority collective, only sixty people, and that it is an issue that has had no media impact to date. However, it has seemed to us to be an important issue in order to bring it to the full, because we believe that the situation in which this group finds itself is very defining of two important issues affecting the future of this Government and the way in which this Government has faced them. On the one hand, we believe that it is a reflection of the situation in which the public service is located in Euskadi, understanding by public service the situation of the workers not only of the General Administration, but of all the Basque institutions. The public service in Euskadi is forgotten, without material resources, without the public recognition that the workers in it would need, dismantled after cuts in salaries and staff, and without the generational replacement that they would need to maintain their activity. Well, environmental technicians and techniques are even worse: they have an interim rate of 70 %, while the General Administration has an average of 30; they have a temporary rate of 85 %; they occupy places in which no experience is required and which can have access to up to 27 different degrees, and there are people who have occupied them for more than 20 years and who, because they belong to minority bodies, with minority degrees, have not, in these 20 years, even had the possibility of undergoing a public employment process. On the other hand, the situation of this group is a reflection of the Government's historical lack of sensitivity to the issue of the environment, and I am also not going to stick to the corresponding government now. For many years, many legislatures, we have heard empty speeches about sustainability and the passing of laws in this very Parliament, for which there is then no money to enforce them. We believe, however, that this non-legislative proposal, which fortunately we have been able to deal with most of the groups in this House, is a good opportunity to reverse this situation; not only that of this particular group, but that of these two issues to which I have just referred. The Government has the opportunity to put in place measures to reverse this situation, as I say. For example, it is urgent to value public workers, reducing interinity and consolidating staffing. It is necessary to avoid the loss of knowledge acquired, of the experience acquired by all those people, who after years and years of work can stay on the street in any public employment process. On the other hand, it is necessary to avoid the waste of public resources, too, the economic resources used to train all these people, which at one point, due to internal processes, can be left on the street. Secondly, it is necessary to ensure that in the public service technical staff have adequate experience and training. And this is not what happens with environmental technicians and techniques. As I said, they are occupying places where they can enter up to twenty-seven different degrees, without any kind of experience, and that puts them to rest that any selective process leaves on the street people who have value and knowledge, and that people who, without denying value, lack that knowledge and experience can enter. Therefore, our non-legislative proposal calls for the creation of a scale of environmental techniques and techniques to resolve this issue. And this is not something that only asks Elkarrekin We can. Back in June, I think it was in June that Aclima, which is Euskadi's cluster of environmental companies, made public a note, a statement in which it expressly said: "Measures are necessary to ensure an essential specialization to offer a quality service and a proper execution of deadlines". And they also said: "The absence of the category of technician in the environment results in people coming in without the knowledge of the area and that this requires a necessary stage of training that slows down the administration's response." Along with the creation of the scale, another important issue is that this Government, this country, begins to consider allocating sufficient resources (and I mean not only material resources, but also economic resources)... sufficient for the protection of the environment. It is not only a question of increasing the staff of the Administration, but also. Why increase templates? Well, I again stick to what Acclima says, which is basically the business of this issue, the business of this sector, which says: "The reduction of environmental control makes it possible for private operators, who are usually used to operating outside the system, or" – and I quote textually – "more colloquially speaking, pirates of the system". That is to say, not having enough staff of environmental technicians and techniques, what causes is that ultimately the person who does it right is in inferior condition, that the person who does it right has unfair competence on the part of the person who does it wrong. But because there is not enough staff, it is not possible to fight against those entities or individuals or companies that do so badly. But this can also cause – and I quote again to Acclima – "the breach of deadlines and the slowing down of files". And says Aclima that it is customary for the private sector to have response times of more than two years in new environmental authorization procedures. And I have to remind this Government that it is making a lot of efforts in many areas to reduce administrative burdens, to reduce administrative deadlines, and yet we have to be able, because of a simple lack of staff, in environmental authorizations, which are a prerequisite for any new economic activity in the country, to have delays of up to two years. Up to two years. And they also say that more than a year in the ordinary soil quality procedure, whose legal deadline is six months. And to this we have referred earlier in the morning, to the question of the need for resources, not only economic, but also personnel. Finally, we believe that allocating sufficient resources to environmental protection is to bet not only – and that is obvious – on protecting the environment, but on building a more prosperous, modern and sustainable society and economy. We therefore welcome the consensus that has generated our proposal, but I take this opportunity to ask the Government to extend this consensus to a limited group of sixty to all General Administration staff. Because yesterday has failed a new table with the representation of the staff of the Administration, and we understand from Elkarrekin We can that a democratic society, an advanced society, needs a solid, stable, useful and valued administration by the citizenry. Nothing more. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the plots of those who were running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u103	Good afternoon. The theme we have in our hands is not new. We even had a chance to talk to a board with the vice president of the Public Function. It's a theme that hasn't been fixed for decades and it's already beginning to rot. And it doesn't only affect people. It also has a direct influence on the quality of service the Public Administration should offer. Today it came from the radio of environments, but in it there are two questions or two knots. One of them belongs to the organization of the General Administration, and the other to the confession of the organizational experience in the Environmental Department, right? We don't really know reason, we don't know what caused it to come into this situation. But what we're seeing is that several public administration services have been privatized, and we can imagine that the object of the government is perhaps the privilege of evading several public services in the administration, because in this department there are a number of different jobs that are properly displayed. And it may be an end to the well-being we are now acquainted with, column, the destruction of the Public Administration, the backbone, and going to another example. But what do we see in the meantime? We see in general that there is a high temporary rate in the administration of administration, and it is highly improbable that the rate in general is displayed in the administration! What do we see in the Environment Department? We don't have a specialized environmental member, we don't have it on purpose, we've got the temporary routine here at 75 to 80%. No specialization, no certain appetite. The access is very simple, as the spokesman of my predecessor has mentioned, we have 26-27 headlines in it; we are in danger of increasing the science, the knowledge, the knowledge that has been capitalizing for years. And here, for years, no public offer has been made, and therefore the workers who work there are in constant danger, they are in danger of being expelled. The environmental techniques being few, they have become the weakest chain of the general administration. What's the point? Well, there's been a transfer contest. At this point, we have to solve that moving contest, and we think that we need a solution to that. I mean, on the one hand, we need a short-term solution, and on the other, we need a solution to the look-out length of half-a-term. We need both eyes on this subject, because, owing to the first removal, so many workers may be left outside. And what we were asking was to re-establish, that all personnel should be recouped, knowledge piled up for years, a capital of knowledge, because the Administration required it. And, if I am not mistaken, the sactorial table came together on Tuesday, but there was no consent, as it seems, that it is not intended to re-establish all the workers. And, of course, what happened to these workers? Since they couldn't do public work offers, then they can't participate in the moving contest. And that's the problem right now in the Environmental Department. And, on the other hand, what we need is the stare of a half-a-term length. It is absolutely necessary that we should actually make a serious plan on the organization of the General Administration, to plan the change of generation as required, to face the provisional. If at last, because we have need, we wish to preserve the reputation of well-being, that is to say, if the society which is called a state of well-being is the end, the public system is properly adapted to structure. We've just inserted these two proposals in our correction. It is true that in the middle of the process of transporting the contest is out of date, it does not speak of it, and in the administration it is a matter of consolidation. But in the middle we haven't seen any definite commitments, there's no connection. The first point remains in an examination; the other, it is true, opens the way to consolidation, but without any explanation. And the third point, surrounding the scale, makes the demand for a bill project. Then we really don't know what the project of government is. But on the committee we were informed that the Environmental Department has a view, and that the department who deals with the General Administration has a different view. And in this they were opposed, and, of course, the same government, in our opinion, would have to have the same distinction, the same aspect, and there would have to make an attempt, if found more than ever, at the point where we find it. For even the Government admits that the affairs of the administration in general and in different departments are important in the case of provisionalness, etc., etc., etc. Then we'll see how things evolve. We don't sign medium today because we don't see any definite commitments. These two measures were received in our correction, and only one of them is partially received, but the relocation is of no account at all. But it's true that we're going to vote for it, that we're going to vote for it, because the workers see it, and that's why we're going to give a lot of confidence to start walking. That doesn't remove it from now on as far as the General Administration and as far as the Environmental Department is concerned, we won't make any proposals and we won't continue. So, not a signature, but a vote for the vote. Because we're dealing with the workers of the Environment Department because we're actually betting because we need a strong Department of Environments more than ever in these times. And we saw the difficult situation on the committee, how many files are laid every month, the average. They can't answer them properly. And, no doubt, if we wish to be reconciled to our descendants, we must endeavour not to destroy our world, our little world, nor to destroy it, and to make the policies we make there with respect and solidarity, and to this end the most precious treasure we have of all is the environment. And we often talk of patience, but then we see a different direction in actions. Friday we know there's a General Table, and we'll see if we can get some good news from that table, because we need it. And we would encourage the Environmental Department and the Directors in general to agree and bet on our public system and also for the Environmental Department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. We are grateful for Mr Becerra's initiative today on behalf of the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, because we understand that he is trying to solve a problem that was already on the table before the arrival of the summer. I had been aware of the Government for years, but we have recently been moved, when the workers of this Department of the Environment, the public employees, informed all the groups of their situation and the effects of the current transfer competition, the effects that they could have on the personal situation of each of them in the performance of their duties in the positions of which they are not holders, and especially in the daily development of the work of the department. In view of this situation, both Mrs Moreno and Mr Zearreta, Vice-President of the Civil Service, were asked to appear and when they came to the committee they explained to us the point of view they had on this matter. Mrs Moreno, the Vice-President of the Environment, limited the problem to a small group of workers, thirty-nine of the more than sixty technicians in this department. Thirty-nine workers are not many, logically, within the volume of the civil service of the Autonomous Community, but the performance of their functions is very important, because all environmental policies, all technical reports, pass through their hands. She told us that when she took the reins of the apartment she took a rather ungrateful, ungrateful surprise, seeing the degree of interinity, which exceeded the average almost twice. That is to say, from just over 30% of the public service in Euskadi, to almost 70% within that small department. And above all, the discrimination that had been experienced against them, since they had not entered the 2000 OPE, was now part of the transfer competition, and they could lose their jobs, since there are many qualifications with which these specific posts can be accessed, since their profiles are excessively open, and a concrete scale is not created within the rules that in some way allow the functions of people who have been working for many years and who have acquired knowledge and who have a way of doing or processing those dossiers that are very necessary for the Basque Government. In the end, she told us that she had moved to the Public Service, but that she had observed that logically the first consequence she had was a very high workload, which caused the files to slow down and even double the amount of time they had normally rated to produce their reports or to issue their resolutions. That means that there are hundreds, thousands of people who have directly initiated files before that department, or who have initiated, in this or other institutions, files, authorizations, licenses, etc., etc., for whose processing environmental reports are necessary and mandatory. And that's exactly what's slowing down. Of course, that has a very serious effect on those people, or those companies that start these dossiers, on the environmental health of all the citizens of the Autonomous Community and our neighbours, and in general on economic activity. This is where she blew up all the alarms, but it seems that those alarms did not come to sound, or were not strong enough, or the departments are far away, because they did not come to hear clearly in the Department of Public Service, since when the vice-counsel gave us the explanations of why this situation existed, which he had known for a long time, nothing had been done (since he, in fact, already occupied the same or similar responsibility in the previous Government). Although the situation, I insist, cannot be blamed on this Government, as it comes from governments or previous times, even further back in 2010. He told us that all the exceptions that had been made in the transfer competition had been negotiated with the unions, and that everything that does not go through the negotiating table cannot be carried out, and that therefore these citizens, these officials, these public workers, were left out. This statement by someone who presented to us at the end of the last parliamentary term a bill on Basque public employment, a statute of the new Basque public employee, who did not have the agreement of any of the unions. I mean, the excuse for the unions goes for some things, and for others not. And in this House we are tired of hearing representatives of public workers precisely about the tapered ears they have in that department in front of the negotiating table. There were therefore no solutions and no solutions at the moment, but indeed the transfer competition, which is already under way, would fully affect those thirty-nine posts of the Department of the Environment. Mr Becerra has presented us today with the initiative so that we can find a solution, and, like all the solutions that are agreed by all or most of the groups in this House, in the end they have to be more or less broad so that all the groups can enter into the agreement. And this proposed agreement, which I assume is going to get the support of the whole of the House today, has three points. The first of these calls on the Government, within the framework of the current, ongoing Basque public employment plan, to analyse the situation of those officials of the Department of Environment, what their needs are and what solutions can be put in place; a job that is easy for us to approve today because it is already done, because the two vice-advisors have already told us what the problems are and what they think should be the solutions. The second point of the agreement is that when it is brought to this House and we approve of it all, let us hope that as soon as possible, the new Basque public employment law will be collected sufficient measures to shield or stabilize, in some way, the staff, those public workers who fill in their backpacks with knowledge of many years of work, which are necessary and which are essential for the development of the daily activity of the Administration, and which cannot be squandered by a mere competition for transfers or a problem of mobility of officials. Finally, the last point, which seems to me to be the most important, calls on the Government to bring us, within one year, a bill reforming the law of 2004, the Law on Bodies and Scales of the General Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and its Autonomous Bodies, in which this place of environmental technicians is specifically created. We, logically, and so we have expressed and signed, are in line with these three positions and we are going to approve the motion today, but I would not like to finish the intervention without adding a possibility. This is an agreement of minimums; I urge the Government (there is no Erkoreka, I urge you, Mr Lehendakari) to, in the same way that this bill of bodies and scales will take what it takes until it reaches us here, and this is a problem that we have, which I believe can have a lot of significance in society, in environmental activity and in our economic activity, can be sought faster solutions. Already done in the last legislature, it was done with the Emergency Law of 2016: there was a final provision that created a specific scale and that modified that standard of bodies and scales of the year 2004. An ad hoc amendment to any regulatory draft that is being processed, or with the budget law, would provide an immediate solution and would be a first step in solving the problem of these thirty-nine affected by the Department of the Environment who have not had the support of any trade union group that would have led their petitions to a negotiating table or any other forum, and which may have very serious consequences for all the activities of the Administration in general and of many citizens, and especially our economic activity, because of these delays, which are illegal, in the activity, in the resolution of the reports and the requests that are submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u107	Good afternoon, everyone. As has been rightly said, we are debating a non-legislative proposal based on the specific knowledge of the situation in which the staff of one of the areas of the Basque Government are located, in this case attached to the Department of the Environment. The Socialists were already dragging this concern into the last legislature, and this was increased by making us responsible for a department that intends to make a transcendental and transversal change, and which has also been claimed here today morning in public policies on the environment, and adapting them to the challenge we have, which is the challenge of climate change. But in order to do this, we need to have the public employees who have been forged in this area and who must have recognized their competence and ability to turn to the tasks that we have put forward in this legislature. But it is also true, and it has been said here, that this is a problem that not only affects the Department of the Environment, but it is an evil that affects all areas of government in general. Because, as the Deputy Public Service Advisor acknowledged at his appearance in committee on 30 June, one of the problems that haunts them is the high rate of interinity in the General Administration of the Basque Country, which placed in an environment of 46%. A fact that is also true – and has already been said – is not new, and that has led to debates in this Chamber throughout the previous parliamentary term. The Socialists, together with the rest of the groups, share that the objective we must pursue is that of an effective administration, that provides quality services, and that for this it is necessary to continue to work in a process of modernization and innovation of the public administration; a process in which it is essential, from our point of view, for the public worker to feel involved. We need a continuous improvement in administrative management. We must face up to the adequacy of the Administration to the current demands of the citizenry, with various tools, which not only go through staff resources, but also through the simplification of procedures, as we were also told in that commission by the Vice-Council of the Environment, through the cross-cutting innovation of the Administration, through electronic processing, its impulse, through the formation or capitalization of knowledge. The diagnosis, as has been said in advance in this rostrum, has already been made, and the data are perfectly reflected in the employment plan that was presented more than two years ago: a staff with an average of fifty-one years, with a high rate of interinity, and which will retire very much within a period of less than twelve years. The objectives are also clear, and are reflected in the plan: to rejuvenate the workforce, to consolidate interim posts to avoid decapitalization of knowledge, to achieve gender equality, and to adapt jobs to new needs. But in order for this to happen, it is essential that processes of job consolidation be carried out, of the temporary persons who have been working for years in the Administration. Because it is a luxury that we cannot afford, because the Administration cannot afford to lose the knowledge and skills acquired by these workers over the years, because this would undoubtedly affect the effectiveness and efficiency of the public services to be provided. And that was also recognized by the two vice-counselors in the committee in which they appeared. And all this has its reflection in the Department of the Environment, which has given rise to this GNP. They said it was a small group. Small, yes, but it also has an important impact, mainly on the subject in which it works. With an interim rate far higher than the general administration average, and with posts that require highly specialized knowledge, especially if it takes into account the enormous legislation of all kinds (from the community, state or community level) and its technical complexity. This was transferred to us by the department's own technicians who addressed the parliamentary groups. The replacement of temporary staff, with extended experience, results in loss of knowledge and technical and human capital, as well as resources invested in their formation. And this axiom cannot be denied by anyone; it is not denied by any of the groups, but neither is it denied by any of the Government. This staff gives, and has given for many years, solvent technical support to decisions of great environmental importance, given the accumulation they have in experience, i.e. in nature conservation, in environmental assessment, in the imposition of corrective measures or in the inspection of industries themselves. That is why, at this point, I would like to highlight again the words of the Deputy Adviser at the June appearance, when he stated that the Government is currently negotiating how to maintain human capital, so that that knowledge, that of all departments, remains and continues to be maintained in the Administration. And we hope, and we wish, even though there has not been that meeting (on Tuesday they have a new call), that these negotiations will come to a good place, for the good of all, that surely in the positions between zero and one hundred there are ninety-nine intermediate steps, that it will always be better to reach them than to stay in maximalistic positions. Because the Administration, in order for it to be efficient and effective and be able to provide quality public services, has to capitalize on this knowledge, and this is the responsibility of everyone: of the Government, but also of those who have to negotiate with the Government in order to be able to implement certain instruments. And I must also acknowledge that when the diagnosis is known, when the objectives are shared and when the tools that can be used are known, it is easier to agree. And this is what is going to happen today with this non-law proposal, in which four groups have signed the compromise amendment and a fifth group is going to support it. It will therefore come out unanimously. So today Parliament will urge, also with the support of the Socialists and the rest of the groups, that within the framework employment plan, within that framework, the Government analyse the staffing needs of the Vice-Council of the Environment which were put before us in the committee on 30 June, but which have also already been referred by the Vice-Council to the Department of Public Service. In this way, this House supports this request that is being made from the vice-counsel for the Department of Public Service to attend to it. Secondly, we will also urge the Government to put in place the necessary forecasts to undertake a process of staff stabilization through the convening of employment consolidation processes that avoid this loss of knowledge and experience that the temporary workers possess. And, among them, we would like you to pay close attention to those attached to the Department of the Environment. And finally, we have agreed to ask the government, within a time limit... This morning it was also said, in some non-law proposal that was being worked on, that it is important to set deadlines. For in this proposal, even though someone seems small or broad, it takes time. The one-year deadline, to amend the Law on Bodies and Scales of the General Administration of Euskadi, which includes, among other things – that there are also other needs that have been revealed to us – the scale of environmental technicians, because it will enable better coverage of these places, and this better coverage will undoubtedly benefit the policy and environmental action of the Basque Government, with the maximum of guarantees necessary for those administered in this field. Someone mentioned Aclima, the environmental cluster of Euskadi, and the cluster reminded us recently, in that article that has been mentioned by the spokesman of Podemos... He closed the article as follows: he said, after explaining to us all the work being done and the problems in the department, he said that environmental policy in the Basque Country "has reached a maturity worthy of any European region". That is why I believe that, on the basis of that cluster statement, which is not only private companies (because private companies, public administrations and universities are involved in the cluster), it also pushes us from this Parliament to urge the government to take these measures so that we can continue to provide a service that we all want to be effective, efficient and of quality in environmental matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good evenings. We know what's the state of the company's crew. We met with them, and then, on June 30th, we had the appearance of the Environmental and Public Function Steps on this committee. We have known different points of view; we have known the state of these public workers, and the possibilities of solving them, and consequently the frame. After this, Polydemos, the parliamentary party, introduced another proposal. In our group, we believe that the most appropriate position, which can really give real and feasible solutions to the employment situation of this group, is that which is reflected in our amendment, tabled together with the Socialist Group on 12 September. And then, thanks to the agreement reached with the proposing group, it is reflected in the compromise amendment. The agreement has been possible because both the proposing group and the Socialist Group and we ourselves have had a genuine willingness to give a solution to this particular group, which could in fact also be extrapolated to other groups in the administration. And, taking this solution into account, what is proposed is always taking into account, without losing sight of what the regulatory framework is. And yet, with all this, we have been able to reach a meeting point. We are also pleased that the rest of the parliamentary groups have subsequently joined, even if only with the vote and not with the signature. The main position of our group is to give stability to the environmental technical staff of the Basque Government. We also want to give stability to the rest of the staff of the Basque public administrations, but, as we are talking about these technicians right now, we will be talking about these technicians. It is true that these technicians have a specific subject of work, but their employment situation, which is what we are talking about today, is not too far from that of the other temporary and temporary staff of the public administrations, the other departments of the General Administration or other public bodies of the Basque Country. Our group, like the Government, is committed to keeping to the extent possible within the organization that knowledge and good doing that has been achieved over the years, because this will enable more effective, efficient and better public administrations, and be able to provide or continue to provide good services and better services to citizens. However, we have to keep in mind – and this is in the end the framework I said before – we always have to keep in mind what the limitations are. The limitations are imposed by the current legislation, which is not even all autonomous; that some rule comes as a result of trade union agreements reached after their corresponding collective bargaining. And that's the frame we have, and we can't ignore it, or obviously skip it. The specific normative framework is that of access to the public service, the general rules of access to the public service, and mainly the fundamental principles, as was said and repeated in that commission that we had: equality, merit and capacity. Moreover, under no circumstances can we forget that the Government must always maintain an overall vision, an overall vision, which must ensure the general interest. Yes the particular interest, but also the general interest. Everything must be motivated by... , there must be a general interest in any action by the Government. In our group we understand that the solution to this situation for these technicians goes through the following points, which are, more or less, those that are finally included, which have been included in our amendment. The first point is the development of the General Administration Employment Plan. The Employment Plan approved by the Governing Council on 15 December 2015, which was adopted a year and a half ago and is fully in force. This plan, as has already been said, together with the Plan for Equality of Women and Men of the Basque Administration and its autonomous bodies, has a clear and robust diagnosis of the situation of the Basque public employment: first, the templates are aged, the interinity rate is high... Obviously, it is not unknown that the rate of interinity is high. It has been said that the interim rate for this department was 70%, and that is not the case. If we are rigorous, it is 55%, because we have to take into account the interinities against the vacancy, not the interim that is occupying the position of a fixed one that is elsewhere. That must be rigorous, and it would be 55%. And if any case is solved, it could go up to 60, but under no circumstances could it be 70. In any case, we agree that the interim rate is high, and that this is a widespread problem of the Administration. And the third point in the diagnosis of this Employment Plan would be that situations of inequality between women and men are still detected within the Basque public administrations. In order to resolve these issues, these two plans provide for a comprehensive set of actions that would mainly involve the adoption of the new Basque Public Employment Act, the key ingredients of which would be the employment consolidation processes and general OPEs, or the implementation of such general OPEs. In the second point, which is also included in the amendment, what is proposed is to create the new scales that are deemed appropriate, and in particular a scale for this group. The most appropriate form, unlike the previous legislature, in which the Basque Public Employment Bill was envisaged, in this legislature it is understood that it is more appropriate to include it by amending the Body and Scale Management Act, because having a specific law, not for the collective, but in this matter, it is understood that it is most appropriate by the entity it has. However, as the representative of the People's Group has appointed, it is not understood that the solution was to pass a law specifically for a collective. This law, the amendment, will provide for the creation of different scales; to adopt a law only for one scale we consider it totally disproportionate in this case. It should also be noted that the Basque Government has set itself a one-year deadline for submitting this project with this modification, which is positive. And it's probably already started (the year, well, we'll see, it's a deadline)... the road has already begun by the corresponding order of July this year. This, the creation of this scale, will allow these technicians a differentiated access. In the end it is a limitation in his favor, with which we understand that the measure is quite blunt and not soft, as the representative of the People's Party implied. In addition, the scales will include all qualifications determined by the current (European, State, autonomous) legislation, not by the Government. If it's twenty-seven... it'll be the ones that have to be, the ones that according to the regulations and by sets of knowledge have to come in. And that is why it is not understood that there has been discrimination, that because there have been twenty-seven degrees, there has been discrimination so far. That's not true. That some qualification which is considered to be minority, minority in terms of public service and OPE, it is true that it has not had OPE since the year 90, but other qualifications of which enter in this set (for example, industrial engineers) have been able to present to OPE. In any case, the scale shall be created with the set of qualifications determined by the regulations. And the third point, and this is a very important point, would be to pass the Basque public employment law in this legislature, so that we can incorporate these processes of consolidation of employment. These processes, as has already been said, prevent the decapitalization of knowledge in public administrations. The Public Employment Bill of the past legislature, transitional provisions 19 and 20, already provided for these selection processes, which in any case had to guarantee an open character, free competition, and respect the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity. These consolidation processes valued the specific experience in addition to the general one, being the specific one granted by the competent Administration, in addition to marking a specific shift so that certain groups or groups in which there is a high degree of interinity could enter through that differentiated shift. It seems that the Government in the Public Employment Bill can maintain this same line. In any case, this law, the Basque public employment law, which we hope this legislature will pass... It could not be passed in the last legislature; of course, it was not attributable to the Government: there were excessive delays that were certainly not attributable to the Government, nor to this parliamentary group. That law, without those delays, could have been passed by last spring, and we would already have the open way to be able to incorporate or to have those consolidation processes incorporated. Let us hope that the law will be passed in this legislature. A lot of things have been named. The relocations. Until yesterday there was, just yesterday... Tuesday there was a table, that sectoral table to talk about this topic. Up to that point, until 26 September, there had been seven meetings during June and July, and there had been up to five different documents; however, no agreement could be reached. But, of course, it is not attributable to a party, because, as the representative of the Socialist Group has said, if maximalist positions are maintained, it will hardly be the meeting point. For this reason we believe that they have been received in the agreement obtained by the real practical solutions which the Administration can give to these technicians without making false hopes. In any event, as long as this Parliament does not pass the necessary laws to incorporate the processes of consolidation of employment and create the new scales, it must be in accordance with the general and current rules of the public service, whose fundamental principles are once again equality, merit and capacity, and in particular we call for special respect for the rights of the fixed staff of the Administration, in particular the right to a career. At the moment, transfer competitions and OPEs are the main instruments we have to reduce interinity and give stability in employment, so that we can achieve more efficient, effective, modern, egalitarian and rejuvenated public administrations that can continue to provide quality public services to citizens. We are grateful for the flexibility shown by the Vice-Adviser of Public Service to be able to reach this agreement, and we are especially grateful for Mr Becerra's attitude, which is responsible and practical in order to be able to reach this agreement. And also the rest of the groups for joining. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The response shift. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u111	Well, I thank Mrs. Larrauri for her words. I do not know if they are very good for me, but in any case I thank them equally. I agree with what the spokesperson said. I agree, in this case, that the two terms must be given, and in the text which has been proposed for that reason, we propose, on the one hand, for a short time, to form a series of headlines, namely, the environmental technique, and in the middle term two other proposals. On the one hand, to add the personal part that's in the department and fix the personal situation that's working today, right? With regard to what the representative of the People's Party has said, since he has opened the door to asking the lehendakari for things about the budget law, we are not only going to ask him to use it – and I do not see it wrong, unlike Mrs Larrauri – to use the budget law to create the scale of environmental technicians, which I do not think was somewhat unbelieving, he would also take advantage of asking him that the budget law could create at least some of the places that have also been mentioned this morning. In particular, the Law on the Protection of Soil, which provided for thirteen and only five, and which could be created the remaining eight. I don't think he was sloppy either. In any case, we assume that there must be time limits within an agreement, and we have committed ourselves to time limits that we hope the Government will respect. Mrs Larrauri has said that, in any case, all these processes must respect the principles of equality, merit and capacity, and I have already said in the relevant committee that the problem that some of these people have had is that they have never even had the opportunity to participate in a selection process where their equality, merit and capacity are guaranteed. That is, they have not had any OPEs, because they are minority bodies for which the Administration has in principle never foreseen such processes. I would end by completing the mention made by the representative of the Socialist Party. He said that in the statement he made at the time, Acclima said in the end a phrase that was: "The Basque environmental policy has acquired a maturity worthy of any European country or region". And then he goes on to say, "It's time to give him a functional structure of the same relevance." Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u112	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Ubera, right there?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u113	Yes, you can hear it. I would tell the government that, instead of looking at what is in front of them, we must look both sides and think about what we have done. Because the transfer contest will be solved, and all environmental jobs have been moved, all of them. They couldn't have had any access to public offers until now, so all jobs are on the move, and the government has no intention of re-establishing them. Not all the workers. And the government hasn't yet informed us how many jobs there will be, or how many people are going to be moved, expelled, or shifted. It seems to me, therefore, that, instead of looking at what others can do, we must, of course, look at what we can do. You're the government right now, you have a responsibility. And if you really believe in the general administration, if you believe in the Environmental Department, and if you want to do a quality job, and you want to offer it, you're going to change the time to begin, in this transferal contest, a solution must be given. And, on the other hand, as far as the General Administration is concerned, we must look at the average length of time, and start with precise and concrete measures. One, because we are faced with an important change of generation, because we may lose knowledge, and, as you say, if you believe in the state of well-being, we need a solid public system and we need a strong general administration. For this purpose, they can take several measures and go running. It's time to play with responsibility, which will be seen on Friday, because the General is called. And we would certainly demand that we have lost too many years, that it is time, because it is already too late, for this system, which has been built for years, should not have been designed for politics in order not to undo this society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, do you have a word to say? No. Mrs. Castellao?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u115	Yes, I take it from the seat, because it's going to be a very brief intervention. Because today morning we were able to hear requests from the different groups in which they set their priorities and in which they talk about resources, and, well, we have had to explain to them, even though they know and understand, the issue that money is a finite resource; that we do not have or it is not possible to work with the bottomless sack. Says Elkarrekin's spokesman We can ask the lehendakari. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the groups, because we are all going to be responsible, from now on to nothing (month and a half or two months maximum), for being able to have a tool that allows us to launch initiatives such as the one that is to be adopted today after this vote, or the one that has been adopted this morning. We all have requests, but if those requests are stars that we want to hang on a tree that we are not able to raise among all we will have a problem. And I'm referring, in case anyone doesn't understand me, to the budget for the 2018 financial year. It is true that Aclima was saying what you were saying to me, that we must have a structure of the same relevance as that which at the moment had the maturity of the environmental policy developed by the Basque Government. I believe that this is the objective of the two initiatives that are being adopted on this subject at today's plenary session. Some indications regarding contaminated soils, and some very concrete ones, which are the subject of not losing knowledge, experience, and that quality environmental services can be provided. Moreover, the study and evaluation of the needs of technical staff in this area, which have already been transferred by the vice-counsel and which is not unknown to the vice-counsel of Public Service, should be addressed, because this was also acknowledged at the hearing. Finally, acting responsibly, they ask us, or they ask. The parties to a negotiating table are two. We must have a high eye on both sides. This collective is not currently excluded from the transfer competition because trade union support was not or was not involved, as some other group of administrative workers did, and they see themselves in this situation. It is also time for these relocation or prioritization processes, between zero and one hundred, to have sufficient target height to provide protection to as many people as possible, even if some positions have to be divested. Of course, we encourage this reflection to be on both sides, and to act responsibly at the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Miss Laruri, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u117	Thank you, Madam of the Parliament, again. I've forgotten to comment before. A reference has been made to privatizations, which is the ghost that surrounds as long as we talk about the public administration. I have to say that there is no privatization of the Administration, and externalisations, if there are, are punctual. But, of course, they have nothing to do with the subject we were discussing today. With regard to the relocation, following the process of competition for transfers, with the staff who could be displaced, which we know already that fifteen of the posts of environmental technicians have not been requested by anyone, because, as I said, different drafts have been worked up until the same Tuesday, that one of the trade union centres seems to be willing to sign, because, according to his words, the text fulfilled the objective that we had set ourselves, which we had proposed when we began to negotiate it, which is that of minimizing to the maximum, if not completely nullifying the negative effects on the displaced personnel. It's the opinion of a union, that my group shares it. However, at the last minute it seems that everyone was not content, and that due to other maximalist positions, zero (and zero cannot be guaranteed), it has not been able to go forward. In any case, these people would go back, in the worst case scenario, to work bags in which, with the ordinary system, there is an overturning, which I'm sure those people who have been going out for so many years (in the case of going out to work bags, I doubt it), so I'm sure they wouldn't get so badly stopped. In any case, the Government is always looking for solutions to improve situations and to improve those general rules. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Since the debate has ended, we will vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists and Euzarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u119	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, in defending Eukadin' tourism. Discipline and final resolution. On behalf of the Basque Populous Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, it's yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u120	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative I am presenting on behalf of the People's Group is intended to be a defence and support of the tourism sector in the Basque Country in the face of the campaign of attacks that took place in the middle of the tourist season on the streets of our capitals, mainly in the capitals. Everything we have been able to see and read about the attacks on the Basque Tourist Agency in Bilbao, or the next day in San Sebastián, Basque capital with the greatest tourist potential in our community, in whose streets of the Old Party there were protests and sabotages with posters and painted, with the message of "Outside tourists" and even inviting to incinerate foreign visitors. Quite a horror. An entire radical campaign orchestrated against the tourism model in Euskadi, with demonstrations in the three capitals at their festivals. This is not new; the new thing is that before the reason were the prisoners, and we have changed, this year tourism has been chosen. Demonstrations in which political parties were accused of murdering the people, while exalting the prisoners of ETA; all this with the aim of boycotting the tourist season in Euskadi, imitating their friends of the CUP (the short and stick, the easy, the clumsy), with violent attacks on tourists, hotels, trains and tourist buses, etc., much more tourist resources. This isn't new either. Among their ranks, and since the end of the sixties, the arrival of tourism to Spain gave them vertigo, so tourism could contribute to the economic development of Spain. And this was bad, too bad to settle its political objectives in Euskadi. That is why they recommended in their catechism to apply certain terrorist measures against tourists from other countries. Then they still called things by their name: "terrorist acts." What they then called "applying terrorist measures" is now called, ladies and gentlemen, "unfortunate facts". How the language has changed! In short, then and now curb the economic development of Euskadi, because for the left abertzale is a better scenario a Euskadi with little economic development. There is no abertzale left in political activity for the sake of the progress of the Basque Country; they are to subject Basques, through lies and extortion, to their own political interests. They intend to make us believe that of this organized attack on the Basque economy and thousands of jobs you knew nothing. It was the kids, the ones who were walking down the street. You of spiritual exercises surely, as usual. Because, don't be false, tourism matters to them a pepper. You feed on noise and agitation, because you do not know another way of doing politics, and in order not to see your inability you have the need to create destabilization. They have presented us to the world as a massified tourism area, where a "savage" business is exercised, they said. Yesterday the councillor gave them data of ranking of massification: by autonomous communities, Euskadi occupies the position fourteen of the seventeen autonomys. For tourist points, of the 104 that are valued, Donostia occupies 62; Vitoria 93. We're talking about the tourist intensity index, 3.5%. For hotel squares per thousand inhabitants, in Euskadi the average is thirteen squares per thousand inhabitants: we occupy the position sixteen of the seventeen autonomous communities. Cities like Donostia, 342 places per thousand inhabitants; Bilbao, 264 (I think I took the data well, I have also some fault) per thousand inhabitants; Vitoria, 146 per thousand inhabitants. We do not have mass tourism, and we are far from figures as for example – the advisor told us – Peñíscola, with 9,000 hotel spaces per thousand inhabitants. Why are the data distorted? Why are they telling lies? Why are slogans loose that you know they're not true? And they grab them, and they shake them, and they pull out the banner. As yesterday progressed the appearance of the councillor, and in view of the roundness of the data, the problem was sought and we arrived at San Sebastián-Donostia. And, more specifically, we arrived at the Old Party of San Sebastián. It seems that in the end the problem was there. That problem that Euskadi has gone through for a month and a half, it turns out that we already located it yesterday, and we located it right in the Old Part of San Sebastian. But it must be said that the tourist model that exists in the Old part of San Sebastián... For example, in the previous legislature of San Sebastián City Hall there was a mayor who sold a block of accommodation for tourist hotels, for example. That's the model of the mayor of that moment, a certain Izagirre. What political organization did this gentleman belong to? And why do they refuse? Do you have a problem with those facts? Do you still have an undeveloped debate, internal? Okay, well, if they do, they do, but don't intoxicate us all with that debate. Yesterday, the spokesman for EH Bildu spoke of a "cosmopolitan" debate. When you do and agree, we will all enter into a debate. So many years sighing to raise the percentages of visitors and overnight stays in the Basque Country, for a few to dedicate themselves to destroying a sector that grows exponentially (38%), accounts for around 6% of the GDP of the Basque Country (in San Sebastián it accounts for 13%), generates 100,000 jobs affiliated to Social Security, reports 4.1 billion euros per year. And this is thanks to the constancy and know-how of many people, self-employed workers, and mostly family businesses, who have spent some very hard years in the presence of ETA, who when they started to get out of that black hole came the crisis, and when we are getting out of the crisis you come selling a distorted image of tourism in the Basque Country. We do not understand how they are capable, or what motivates them, or what motivates them to move a bad image from Euskadi, to attack an important sector of the Basque economy, to attack more than 100,000 jobs and jobs that may be put at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the reality of Euskadi, of the Basque Country, during this summer, for a month and a half, until, as the Councillor said yesterday, he arrived on 17 August and some sad events in Barcelona paralyzed this performance. We are presenting an initiative because we believe that Basque tourism does not deserve this to happen. This cannot be tolerated, and there are those who have not done a reflection and have not condemned these attacks on the tourism sector, and that seems very strong to us. We presented this initiative on August 18. The groups have tabled amendments to this initiative, and we have reached a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, in which, in addition to condemning these acts, to support the tourism sector, we have laid down some lines on which tourism in the Basque Country should be part of. And I'm going to read you the amendment. We say: "The Basque Parliament expresses its support for the workers, entrepreneurs and self-employed in the Basque tourism sector. Tourism is a leading economic and cultural sector, contributing to the generation of wealth and employment, social cohesion and the development of inclusive and tolerant societies. "The Basque Parliament condemns the violent events and coercion that took place this summer against tourist interests, tourists and public buildings, in the context of a campaign that far from promoting any debate only served to project a bad image of Euskadi. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, as tourism evolves, to maintain its commitment to tourism sustainability in a changing environment. "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to continue its work in the interests of sustainable, balanced, orderly, quality and environmentally friendly tourism, with our way of life and culture, as a result of broad consensus between parties and institutions, and with all actors in the sector." We believe that this is an important initiative, because it can be supported by the vast majority of this House which has minimal sensitivity for a tourism sector as important as the tourism sector in the Basque Country. Half of the tourist income in Euskadi is generated by the Basques themselves; the other half leaves us with more than 57 million euros a month, those from outside. Those who are from outside and who do not want them to come, therefore, leave us 57 million euros a month. I think it's a non-disappointable thing. And, as I said before, the more than 100,000 jobs they generate and other dynamics that need to be valued. Those we were dispatching and allowing ourselves the luxury of mistreating. And I wonder: when you go outside, what do you do?, do you put on the typical costume of the place to integrate? Or what? It really seems to us that they are very old techniques and modes, very rancid, and I think that what they should do is that we all contribute to a recovery in the Basque Country or a tourism sector that is the best; respectful, sustainable, but that generates economics, which is what we lack. And that the tourism sector, which has gone, as I said before, through very sad periods in this country, can finally take flight and be an engine of the economy of the Basque Country. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u121	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u122	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Let me tell you something, Lehendakari jauna, and good afternoon to all the women parliamentarians. We find this last point in the plenary that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled on the defence of tourism in the Basque Country. This GNP of the PP that we are discussing today seeks to confuse and use the acts mentioned, which we have always clearly rejected, to cover a debate that fortunately opened and expanded last summer, the debate on the tourism model, which is also the debate on the city model and on urban planning. It is the debate that we tried to have yesterday at Mr Retortillo's appearance, but unfortunately there are groups that seem not to be interested in this debate being held in depth. To reduce this debate to lucky formulas, and to ask us to embrace the current tourism model and praise a sector in which the working conditions of working people leave much to be desired seems to us to be coming here to do the work of the lobby. It is not a question of taking out a GNP today with a holder like the one who wants those who are not willing to go into the background of the debate, but of having the opportunity to bring to this House a debate that has been taking place in civil society for years. It is also a debate that the PP has not attended or met, but we have participated in it, like many neighbors of Donostia, Bilbo, Gasteiz and other towns and cities of Euskadi. You have to go out more to the streets and the squares, and listen to people. Debates and resistances to the neoliberal model of the city, in which the commitment to tourism at whatever price is evident, such as the defense of self-managed social and cultural projects (let us remember Kukutza or let us keep in mind Errekaleor), or in the face of the destruction of the industrial cultural heritage, to which we have attended with the excuse of the manoeuvrable progress and the construction fever of some municipal governments more concerned with building an architectural zoo for tourists than for the preservation of the memory of the industrial city. It can be said more clearly: the increase in tourism, which this summer has reached one of its historical peaks and which so many headlines have filled, is a consequence of urban policies and a model of city that has been promoted by the Basque Government and the municipal governments of the Basque capitals for a few years, within the framework of the DOT and of regional urban planning, which in its day was called euskal hiria. The global Basque city, I think they called him. On the violent acts we have already said it and we repeat it again, we reject them, but let it be clear that we defend the peaceful actions of civil society in the form of protest, it is not going to be that we start to prohibit this too. Protesting is a right, despite the fact that some are committed to implementing laws and measures of repression. I repeat again: confusing headlines and betting on yellowing in this issue serves to elude a reality and a debate that has been taking place for years, a debate of a global nature in the face of the emergence of new phenomena linked to tourism activity. Simplification and simplification. Tourism has to do with the city model and urban planning. On these two aspects there has been a social debate for years, with very clear examples of opposition in civil society: anti-TAV platform, platform against the variant of the Donostialdea metro, "transvia sur no", debate on DOT, etc. Perhaps it seems to us that these social movements that I have mentioned are references, at least for you, but let me quote a few statements from Taleb Rifai, Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization, a few weeks ago. I quote: "The tourist model must be completely redesigned. Sustainable and orderly growth is certainly positive, but uncontrolled growth is not, and unfortunately in the developed world there are more and more examples, such as those in Barcelona and Venice, even on a scale, Bilbao can become so." Are we talking about the need for a serious and in-depth debate on the tourism model and its consequences, or do they prefer to opt for communicative yellowing and legislative lobbying? On the other hand, since in their GNP we are invited to support the tourism sector and its workers, let me give you some information on the reality of this sector, which, fortunately, does not represent the whole of it, but a part of it. There is fraud in the tourist flats, as we knew this week and as Hacienda pointed out at the beginning of the summer, a figure that amounts to about 3.2 million euros. Of the figures of the economy submerged in the tourism sector, which, as we know, is one of the highest in relation to other economic sectors, there is a report entitled "Economy submerged in Euskadi" which specifies: "It is striking that almost one out of five inspections carried out in Basque companies in the last four years have found people who, either worked without being discharged in Social Security, or did more hours than was stipulated in the contract. There are fraudulent contracts that are repeated regularly and especially in the summer in the hotel industry: workers tested, part-time, and collecting in B the rest of the day, overtime unpaid, and full days unreported." We have said this many times, we want quality tourism, but quality tourism must lead to quality employment, improving working conditions in the sector should be a priority. To reduce this debate to the dichotomy of tourismophobia-tourism philosophy is therefore an insult to intelligence and a lack of respect for citizenship. It is obvious that this communicative strategy serves other interests, which, of course, are not ours. We propose to talk about the impacts and consequences of tourism, of each and every one of them. We have not come here to say obviations about the economic importance of tourism, but to raise this debate with the seriousness required by the matter. Not only the Basque citizenship, the neighbours and neighbours of the historic centres or coastal localities, have begun to suffer the consequences of this quantitative and homogenizing bet that they call tourist policy, but the tourists themselves are a victim of an economic mechanism in which they participate as actors and participants. The new tourism model involves promoting experiential and experiential tourism, which is the one that fosters direct and egalitarian intercultural relations between tourists and the populations visited. It is time to claim a time when traveling people should contribute to a social and cultural encounter with the popular classes of the city. In the face of his proposal, we are presenting a compromise amendment with EH Bildu, where we call for the Basque Government to reflect on the environmental, economic, social and cultural impact of tourism phenomena in some parts of Euskadi. To promote a plural debate forum with all actors in the sector, and to take into account existing studies and analyses on the negative consequences and demands of civil society. That the Tourism Act be complied with and that measures be taken to put an end to the precariousness of women workers in the sector. We are ready to work in this direction; to discuss tourism from inter-institutional coordination, to rethink among all the models we have, and to understand how it affects the lives of all the people we live with in Euskadi. We care more about people than numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Casanova, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u124	Good afternoon, everyone. Today I came prepared to rebut or try to rebut Mrs López de Ocariz's arguments, but he saved me the work, because instead of her he presented his autocaricature, and with a collection of more peculiar clichés from the style book of a Tertullian or Tertullian of Intereconomy of 13TV, because, well, he has made us spend here a good time, proving that he lives in a parallel space-time, in a past era. It's in another dimension. Therefore, I am spared trying to fight, because really with foundation and with meaning he has said quite little. But I am going to address Mr. Luke Uribe-Etxebarria and say, "Hey, with this speech we have heard from Mrs. López de Ocariz (you go behind, the Basque Nationalist Party goes behind), so is it going to become a country? Is this how tourism is going to be built? Is this how the interests of this country, of this economic sector, will be defended? You know how the People's Party behaved in the processing of the Tourism Law, and you know how EH Bildu did it. He knows where there is loyalty and commitment to the tourism sector, and where there is an exercise in infumable demagogy. And yet, today you sign a rebuf of the People's Party, which has delighted us with this speech, a motion in which you say you share lines of how to develop tourism. I think that's the wrong way. This summer there have been various protest events, the thread of tourism. I'd make three highlights. On the one hand, the New Year's Association made a violent complaint, a rather dramatic appeal, a claim to the right to live in the neighbourhood, and made mobilizations in that direction. On the other hand, some anonymous paintings were made, especially in the direction of Donostia, in which insults against tourists and other outbursts of contempt appeared. And thirdly, Ernai's organization started a few mutations and a communal campaign against the tourist model. When this was done, some of them lit a light. It is true that it was better to be silent in front of the charges of the neighbors, because, as is said, it was a matter of reason, and better, as the saying goes, 'Worr un tupido velo'. When the painting was anonymous, the mayor said: "We've been covering these for a while, but we didn't mean anything to say, not to break it, that is to say, this polemism." But when Ernai had published his campaign, some of them had lighted up the light and said: "Hombre, we have a chance to attack the patriot on the left and the EH Union." And that's where the thunder box opened. EH Bilduri leporatu zio these Honetan, these Hauetan, gezur pilo bat. They said we said a lot of things we didn't say. We have been tried to keep our mouths shut, to hide what we have actually been saying about tourism, and to put in our mouths things that neither our spokesmen nor our political practice have said. And with a very clear interest. Because, as the mayor said, the paintings were covered and nothing was said, until someone saw an opportunity to make political carouselism and attack EH Bildu with this theme. And another demonstration that it is true what we are talking about we live it yesterday, during the peculiar appearance of the tourism advisor, in which he brought prepared in his speech, in his power point, slides specifically intended to attack EH Bildu, with images of this parliamentarian, with quotes from this parliamentarian and with various elements intended to appear to attack EH Bildu. This is what you're doing, and I think it's pretty traceable. Among other things, because you are not attacking EH Bildu for what he says and for what he does, but for what you make up he says and does. And in addition, a campaign has been launched that, as Elkarrekin Podemos' spokesman rightly referred to, tries to bring to the pyre anyone who dares to question the prevailing tourist model. It is about imposing the dogma that what is being done is being done well, and that any criticism is retrograde and is turismophobic. And it is also a matter of crushing freedom of expression, putting in the same bag some painted clearly rejectable (and then I will refer to it), with criticisms with which you may or may not agree but which are perfectly legitimate. We are not going to allow the space for freedom of expression to shrink. We will not allow it to be described as attacks, attacks or crimes issues that may more or less like, but which are perfectly legitimate. What violent facts are we talking about? The attack on the txu-txu train? We already know that Macarena can be considered a weapon of mass destruction, but is that a violent fact? You may disagree, but it's not a violent fact. When Greenpeace takes off a nuclear power plant, or goes for a convoy of radioactive waste and many thousands of euros of losses are generated, nobody says anything! It's a protest action, and you may disagree, but it's perfectly legitimized. Therefore, you have to differentiate threats, attacks or insults, which EH Bildu does not defend in any way, and we expressly say that "Tourist go home", or any other insult or threat... But don't put that face on me! We haven't said it now! We have said this from the very beginning: we say "Tourist welcome to the Basque Country"; we do not say "Tourist go home". It seems absurd to us. But, hey, haven't you read the press in August? We have produced an article expressly saying this: we are all tourists in this country, almost all of us, I believe that all who can afford it, and therefore insulting tourists is insulting the majority of this country. And therefore it seems absurd to us, among other things (as well as rejectable, absurd), that kind of painting. But that does not have to lead us, as the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos said earlier, to mix things up. Because it seems that some play a little bit the fool's role in the parable of the finger and the moon, and when there are actually criticisms of the tourist model, they look at the finger, and they look at the shapes. He mentioned – and I am not going to read the entire appointment, but yesterday at the Councillor's appearance I had the opportunity to read it – to the President of the World Tourism Organization: "The tourism model must be completely redesigned". What is this, violence...? Is this a stick? Is it to be turismophobic? Or is it to recognize that new problems are being created around tourism to which new answers must be given? Because the paradigm of unlimited growth is now an exhausted paradigm, and now it is not about growing up, nor about boasting because tourism is growing exponentially, but about properly managing that growth, and moderating it and channeling it in such a way that it does not generate any more problems. You know what the Old Party neighbors used to say, and I told you yesterday, too? Of course, this does not interest you, you are interested to talk more about the "Tourist go home", but the neighbors of a society that you also know perfectly well that it is plural and that it does not act for ideological reasons, but because it is already tired of the situation that you are suffering in the neighborhood, they say: "The Old Party breaks down, the public space is privatized, the neighborhood is transformed into a theme park, the number of dwellings is reduced, and they become merchandise. All this because the economic primacy of a sector, the tourism and leisure industry, destroys everything." This is the call you make, this is the site, and you deny it. They deny that there are episodes of massification. I said in these microphones a few months ago: "There is no widespread massification in Euskal Herria", and they tell me that now we enter into contradictions. Of course there is no widespread massification, but it is obvious! But there are points where there is massification. And from the first appearance of the counselor we have warned him: "You have a germ of problem. Act before the problem germ, before having the problem." And, instead of acting, what you are doing is denying the greatest and denying the need to act. Look, I'm going to read you another sentence: "Cities are dying for tourism. No one will live in the historic centers anymore. Many smaller historic cities in Europe are being destroyed by visitors. We will not spend another euro on the marketing of Amsterdam." This has not been said by anyone about Ernai. This has not been said by anyone about Ernai. "Cities are dying for tourism": the person responsible for the tourist promotion of Amsterdam is the one who has said this. And what you do is look somewhere else. Look, this is the New York Times, this is a global debate, this is The Guardian, this is The Economist. The press around the world is talking about the need to refocus the tourism model, and therefore calling for this debate to take place here is not only legitimate, but necessary. And the hysteria and inquisitorial reaction with which this summer has taken place in the face of protests, mixing everything, mixing legitimate protests with aspects that can be criticized, but that has not put them on the EH Bildu table, what shows is their closure. And so tourism is not defended. That's not how tourism is defended! You are in a situation similar to that which existed in the moments prior to the explosion of the real estate bubble. At that time it was also said "It is that millions of jobs are created, it is that the economy lives from this". Man, of course I do! But we need to know how to channel growth so that it does not burst into our hands, and the right to tourism does not become the impossibility, for example, of access to housing or access to decent work. The word precariousness in the sector for you does not exist; neither the councillor nor the political parties, nobody speaks of precariousness, when we introduced in the Tourism Act the need for it to be a cross-cutting axis in tourist policies. And we continue to support the Tourism Act, but, as we said in June, the problem is that it is not being implemented. And we demand that fulfillment. We remain committed to a sustainable tourism model. We speak through our spokespeople and our acts at institutional headquarters, or in other areas through Euskal Herria Bildu. We are not falsely attributed to things we do not or say. And we, unlike others who come here to mount the show, who arrive late to the snake of summer, because we are no longer in summer, we are on September 29 (or 28, I don't know exactly anymore, but it is true that we are no longer in summer)... Some, then, well, tried in August to put a little bit of the hill in the debate, to see if he was getting a little bit on TV. And now, well, it's been a month and a half, the controversy is over, now society is talking about important issues related to tourism, like the tourist rate, like the tourist flats, and this is over. The members of the tourism associations who met with the counselor themselves told him "Let it run". The advisor yesterday told us in the committee "Is there a need for a specific campaign on this issue?". They said, "No. The waters will return to their channel, and we will not give any more relevance to this issue." However, others, out of pure political interest, complain that a bad image is projected, and then project very minority actions and rejected by all political parties as if they were a generalized image. Nsostros y nosotras en EH Collect for tourism, and, as I said, for a supporter of tourism. And while others want to spend time with fireworks, we make specific proposals. And today we're going to make a definite proposal. Gaur errorldatu dugu Legebiltzar honetan proposemen bat, so that the tourist flats that do not comply with the legality and, therefore, have to be aware for the closure and to end with that activity that does not meet the requirements, are also informed, its owners and owners, of the possibility of deriving to the market...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u125	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u126	... these flats, in order to ensure that they can effectively put themselves at the service of the rent and can increase the offer and reduce the prices. We're working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u127	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u128	... We're working for the supporter of tourism. Let others follow the play.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u130	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Basque Socialists have criticized and condemned the campaign against tourism that the Ernai youth organization undertook this summer with the sole intention, in our view, of attacking an economic sector that generates employment and wealth in Euskadi. Some of our spokespersons have already said that tourism is one of the main employment and wealth tractors in the Basque Country, accounting for 6% of our gross domestic product and 10.7% of social security participants in the second half of the year, an area which also generates €4.1 billion per year and creates almost 100,000 jobs. Yesterday the Councillor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption appeared in the committee to respond, with the vision and policies of his department, to the distorted image that this summer some have undertaken to throw on the tourist activity in Euskadi, starting from a lamentable campaign for which only those who supported it, who excused it and who used it to promote their political postulates are responsible. What was really attacking these people was the Basque economy and the thousands of jobs of Basque workers. We share with the Government the vision that we need to stop seeing tourism growth on the basis of visitor records and focus more on its wealth generation to the Basque economy, and on how to increase and improve its economic and employment contribution, because there is room for growth. And despite the increase in the arrival of visitors, it is ridiculous to talk about tourist massification in Euskadi. In fact, as the latest study by the Basque Government reveals, in collaboration with the University of Deusto, there is no perception of tourism saturation in Basque society, as is the case elsewhere in Spain. And yesterday we were able to see in that commission the indicators of tourist intensity and hotel squares of the Basque Country and Basque cities, which left no doubt about the non-existence of tourist massification in Euskadi. And the Socialists believe that Euskadi today enjoys sustainable tourism, balanced tourism territorially and committed to the protection of its natural and cultural heritage. And, in fact, that is something that the Socialists have been working on from all the institutions in which we are present. The Basque tourist model enjoys a broad consensus based on sustainability, territorial balance and deseasonalization. Look, until recently, and the spokesman said today, Euskal Herria Bildu also said in this plenary room that today tourism is not perceived as a threat by the majority of society, nor is it aware that there is an excess of tourism in this country, and this is basically because it does not exist. And I read literally. And then I shared this approach with you, Mr Casanova. We have even come to agree with you on a proposal unanimously adopted by those present on a subject that could be of concern to Basque citizens, and also to avoid fraud of law, such as tourist homes. But the reasons for what happened in summer are alien to tourism, and you know it. We are not facing a necessary debate, because that debate, analysed and in the resolution phase, has already been opened. I'm talking about tourist homes. Socialists are always open to dialogue on any issue or problem that citizens have identified as such. We will always be willing to talk and work within a reasonable and serene debate. But what we never admit are vandalistic acts and acts of imposition, which the only thing they have intended is not precisely to open debates, but to close doors, to give doorways. And in the Basque Tourism Act, supported also by Bildu, the principles on which tourism policies are based (twenty-one, by the way, twenty-one principles) are what really sets up the tourism model we have bet on and on which you also voted through that Tourism Act. And when irresponsible people damage a tourist destination what they get, besides throwing away economic resources that are very difficult for citizens to get, it is also that tourists go to other destinations, do not want to come back here or do not want to repeat the experience. And the commitment of all the institutions, and above all the Department of Tourism of the Basque Government, is to promote sustainable tourism, increase the stay of visitors, promote resources that stimulate consumption, which also flow to the whole population and do not focus only on some points of the territory, and that ultimately generate stable and quality employment in the sector. And Basque citizenship is much more consuming of tourism than it is receiving. Much more. And no one would like us to be sent home when we do tourism, with banners, painted or posters. We would not like and do not like to be coerced, and we do not like to be threatened, and in no case, less, exclusively because of being tourists. And whatever we don't want for ourselves, let's not give it to others. Tourism is an engine for industrial and economic development. Tourism has to do with peace and coexistence, because it promotes multicultural understanding. And we must bear in mind that the world tourism industry has generated the most jobs and wealth in the world from the 1970s to the present. And that is why we tabled this compromise amendment, because we understood that it was necessary to express our support for the people who make up the Basque tourism sector, since they are also people (people, businesses, workers) who are an active part of creating this country's wealth, which also makes it possible for tourism to make up that 6% of the gross domestic product in Euskadi. And they didn't throw out the towel when a bad time came, like the crisis we've been having. That is why we condemn the violent events, the actions and the threats that have been displayed in both painted and banners this summer in Euskadi, and we encourage and support the Government, Mr. Counsellor, to continue its work for a sustainable, balanced, orderly and quality tourism, which also has broad consensus between parties and institutions and with all actors in the sector. And, with regard to the initiative that Elkarrekin Podemos has put forward, I thought I understood Mrs García that in the end, in the whole problem of tourism, the urban development of cities is to blame. And I'd like to put that approach into sulfide, because I don't think that's true, because I think cities... For example, San Sebastián, who is the best known, and forgive me for diverting myself to that countryside, is a city that has had a very sustainable urban development; with its glues, its problems, but very sustainable. The Old Party of San Sebastián has had claims all its life, all its life. The Old Party of San Sebastián has been the first neighborhood in all Donosti that had a comprehensive rehabilitation plan, so that the citizens who lived there would do so in perfect conditions. Everything is better, years go by and logically there are situations that require greater attention, but it is not the Old Party at this time, Mr Casanova, that really has the problem. That's not true. And I'm witnessing the development of the Old Party neighborhood. First-hand witness. And I can assure you that there have always been claims. In other words, I think here in some case... Mr. Casanova said that Bildu had been tried to cover his mouth. Well, I'd say things can't be taken so lightly. No one has ever intended, at least in my group, to cover Bildu's mouth. But, look, what's happened can't be passed on as if nothing had happened, because it's been serious. It's been very serious. And you were talking about violent acts. Well, I'm telling you. Mr. Matute, who belongs to Euskal Herria Bildu, on Radio Euskadi said that the attack on the train txu-txu... Like you put it as an example, trying to do a little funny... Well, well, his own party or coalition partner said that the txu-txu train had been an attack. He said it: an attack. And Mr. Otegi, a week after joking with the first day of the incidents, with that of the Macarena, also called the train txu-txu "incident". And, well, in the end, we're marking a path that I think is dangerous. Because to say that, "Well, like it's happened, it's okay"... No, no, The facts have to be qualified, and we have to try to keep them from ever happening again. And I have the impression that with the attitude that has been adopted here today we are not going to get it. That is to say, tomorrow tourism can again be a jumping spate, and we do not know very well why; just because it will obey the spurious intentions of some political groups or parties. And with regard to the amendment they have tabled, which is ultimately a sum, I understand, of what Bildu was proposing and what Elkarrekin's initiative was proposing We can, I tell you, we are not going to take over. First, because I understand that attempts are being made to protect in the absence of freedom of expression attacks, threats and coercion that do not have protection in the freedom of expression, they should not have protection in that freedom of expression. Secondly, because we do not share either the second or the third points. Then again in the reply I give you a little bit more, because I see that I am running out of time, but I would like to say to you that, with regard to the subject of sectoral agreements and the enforcement of the law in the matter of employment, the Councilwoman for Labour and Justice has just launched a major campaign in the field of control, the inspection of situations that may be conflicting in the field of recruitment. And I understand that it is not necessary to urge the councillor to comply with the Tourism Act, because from the zero minute of his mandate and to acquire responsibility as a tourism councillor he has had the law put in place to comply with it, to develop it. Because perhaps it was these parliamentarians who were in July 2016, last year, that we were unable to put forward in that Tourism Law the development that today is forced to carry out the counselor. More than twelve regulatory developments in one law. If we could have implied the law beforehand, today we would not have to make a regulatory development and perhaps many of the problems we are seeing here today could have been solved with that law, which we were not able to have in its entirety and complete in time. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoons. Mr. Casanova, the PNV and the Euzko Abertzaleak group are responsible for what you say and what you sign. In your speech right here, you do nothing, you have also claimed that right for yourself; therefore, you must also grant it to others. Well, the scene of the chief physician we had yesterday, and the ideas I published yesterday, I must necessarily publish again to-day, and I shall not seriously change them. The discussions, the events of this summer, the plans of violence, have been founded on certain ideas that were not true to me, Mr. Casanova. Yes, yes, the violence camps. The assault against the House of Basquetour is a riddle of violence, which is to be seen in this way, if you please it naturally, but with sincerity. But I say this controversy is founded on certain ideas that are not truths. The first part, the shelling. That was used. That's what you used, and that's not true. Yesterday, the chief physician made it clear, some facts on the basis, that wasn't true. Then you admit, yes, that in the Basque Country there is no such phenomenon but that you place it in certain places. And then we place ourselves at the root of this problem and of all this campaign: Old Donostian side and Erna of the Old Bay. Here lies the origin of all this. And I told him yesterday and I repeat again that Donostia is a city with a hundred and fifty years of tourist tradition. One hundred and fifty years. That the Old Donoster Party houses 6,000 inhabitants. It may be fine or it may be bad, but the Boulevard, the Old Part of Donostia, the promenade of the Concha, the center-center of the city, houses – as happens in many other cities – most of the festive events that are organized in the city, and this obviously causes a number of inconveniences and inconveniences, and also, if necessary, benefits. We should talk about the hikers. I mean, when we talk about tourists, I don't know if we have to talk about the people who spend the night, because in Donostia, who causes, if you want, agglomerations are the hikers. I mean, it's us, even those in the province. Or, if I hurry, 200 kilometers round of Donostia, which can go from Bordeaux to Santander, going down to Burgos, Tutera..., that we are going to Donostia to dine in society – I have my society in Donostia, in the Old Part – we are going to shop, we are going to walk (there are a lot of people going to Donostia to walk), and it is a bit what causes, let's say, these kinds of agglomerations. Apart from the fact that also what provokes them are festivals and events organized by ourselves, co-sponsored by us and organized by ourselves, as can be, in fact, the races, as can be the day of San Sebastián, as can be the day of Saint Thomas, as can be the day of the Basque Festivals, or the Sagardo Eguna. In fact, I will tell you, yesterday – and perhaps you have also had the opportunity to read in the newspaper – there was a meeting (but one of many, not the first one, and not by Ernai), a meeting of the city council with the association of the neighbors of the Old Party, and the city council pushes – says the newspaper owner – "a comprehensive plan for the management of problems of the Old Party". But it's not the first time! And that association has said, because they are indeed plural and they do not allow themselves to be manipulated either by Ernai, even if it pretends to do so, that tourism is not the problem, or, let us say, the trigger of all the problems that the Old Party has, but that there are many others. So, things a little in place. And to tell you the truth, as far as rents are concerned – and yesterday you were showing us a chart – the truth is that in Donosti the problem of the price of rents and flats in terms of purchase, new or second hand, is a problem that I have always known. And I am young (well, not so much), but I want to say that there has always been this problem, due to certain conditions; among others, the orography of the Donostia itself. "Segoda falsedad, louta sobre la se wildo toda campa, que en mi opinión es falsa: We need to change the economic growth model of our people and we're going to tourism. That's a lie. Our economic growth model is based on manufactures, but that was programmed a long time ago, and it was planned. Since the beginning of the 1990s the Basque institutions, with the Basque Government at the head, have set as a strategic objective to remain an eminently industrial society, that our GDP was 25% industrial, and that also in terms of employment we had 25% industrial employment. And do you know what the weight of tourism is right now? Yeah, you know, it's 6 percent. So we cannot exaggerate and say that, one, we put the red carpet on wild tourism, and that we want something like changing our model of economic growth and it seems to us that I do not know if the Balearic Islands, whose GDP is 45% dependent on tourism. That's not true. I'm a beasa force and I'm going to have a precise example of the height and if you want the extreme, there are fifty thousand inhabitants, because the weight of the industry is 50% of our raw product. That doesn't mean we should ignore tourism, we listen to it, we try to develop it too. Well, that's a lie. Gero, ez of her ezer egin. Nothing's been done. Well, no, that's not true, and yesterday I told him and today I repeat it again. The counselor since he came to his responsibilities, and so he manifested it in this House in January, and not only that, but that's what he did... Since February, it has been meeting with the various institutional actors to address this issue. It is therefore not Ernai, nor by far, who has provoked a reaction in the institutions in order to try to fix this matter of illegal tourist flats. Hori gezurra da, éta zuk hori badakizu. Badakizu, badakizu, badakizu. Hori esan da, hori esan da zuen partitik. Eta gero, esan of the well beharrezkoa of the eztabaida. Hemen eztabaidari ez god inork inoiz uko egin. And there has been discussion, there has been reflection, there has been an exchange of views. There are these moments, and there will be in the future. No one has denied that! And his press article said, "Tourism is a necessary debate." As if it were Ernai again, I don't know, who somehow would have caused the birth of the world! And no, no. This debate has existed; proof of this is the law itself, the law itself that was adopted in July last year and which, logically, originated a whole series of discussions and reflections. Or its own non-legislative motion, a motion resulting from an inquiry to the Councillor, which was adopted in this Parliament unanimously on 29 June. It is therefore not Ernai, or much less, who has been the trigger for the institutions to deal with this matter, which is the main issue causing problems, that of the illegal tourist flats, but the institutions were already in it. And, well, proof of that we have that this very Monday the councillor has signed a framework agreement with Eudel and the mayors of the three capitals to address that issue. The Basque capitals..., Donostia has already issued its decree, which is now in public opening, etc., etc., in public exhibition, forgiveness, to receive the suggestions that are needed. Therefore, all this has been supported by four assumptions that are not true. And you were even personally critical of the counselor yesterday, personally (yes, you called him and told him that you wanted leadership and all this sort of thing, and that's, let's say, a personal criticism), and then you're surprised that the counselor is reacting. Well, it seems pretty logical to me. And the files on a computer are for a long time. Here, and yesterday and today, you have criticized him for being profiled and coming late and bad. Here who has made a precise profile and who has arrived late and bad are EH Bildu and Sortu, because EH Bildu and Sortu have responsibility for everything that has happened in August. And you know why? Because you have not been able or have not been able to convince or adequately explain to Ernai-Old Party of Donostia that a whole series of actions were taking place, with you even as first protagonists, to tackle the problem of tourist flats, and that there are institutional and unpainted channels, neither attacks nor such stories. Because that's not, I know, Pearl Harbor's attack, but it's neither a press conference nor a press release. There are institutional channels to address all these issues and they are being addressed. They were neither able to convince them, I insist, of their own motion as a result of interpellation. You were responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u132	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing it to the turn of the answers, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u133	Mrs Garcia, in twenty-four hours you have gone from "Mr. Counsellor, listen to people" to "a debate in privacy". Well, it's amazing. I don't know, it seemed to me, it seemed to me to listen to him. [[Barres]] He said, "a debate in privacy"! We moved from "listen to people" to "a debate in privacy." Okay, well, I also told your classmates this morning that listening to people has gone on to impose. You're going to be transformed, that's fine, do what you think is right, but I want to make it clear because I'm surprised, that's all. And he was talking about illegal situations in hiring, precarious jobs. There may be, of course, but there are ways and means to denounce that. I don't think that justifies the performance of this month and a half, because there are legal channels to act on those occasions. Therefore, we do not intend to justify what has happened to these issues. Because we're talking, as we were talking, about "wild business." Hey, let's not justify things and value the damage we're doing. We're being told about the tourism model. Look, there are several ways to do tourism, as many ways as we are able to offer and the customer to accept, and that model will be the one that will succeed or not. That's right. Any model or type of tourism that is done has to meet basic parameters, which is what we say, the axes of sustainability, quality and control, and regulated, and respecting the rights of citizens where the activity takes place. That has to be basic. Then it's experiential? Well yes, or no, or three days yes and four days no. It just depends, doesn't it? So, I think that's the basics. Mr Casanova, I have been in this House for a few years and agreements are made here, laws are supported. I've never seen a political party, a group, ask for a toll for supporting a law. I've never seen it before, like you did today with the Basque Nationalist group. This is really innovation! I've never seen anything like it before. Mr. Casanova, there was a press release saying: "EH Bildu stands as a mediator to regulate tourism" (August 2017). But do you not remember that you voted for tourism regulation a year ago? Have you not been able to tell your colleagues that tourism is regulated by law, that you voted for it? He also said: "The training meets with the hoteliers to act as mediator". Hey, the hoteliers, a profession, an activity that left you out of tourist activity. Hey, amazing: I'm going to fix tourism with an activity that's not qualified as a tourist activity. I don't know, he has some explanation anyway, but tourism is already regulated. Many regulations are being developed, but they are regulated. Or not? Or did you not pass a regulation in that law? Okay! There's something that's troubling, that we've had young people flying around as trophies attacks on tourist resources, and that's very strong, and that's an alarm, because that's contagious. That's true of many young people. And that has been applauded from different areas, and that should be of concern to them. At least I'm worried. And I think that's where we have a big problem. Look, tourism has been and is a basic sector, which in times of crisis has gone well beyond trance, which provides us with impressive economic resources, as I said before. I think the most rancid and the most obsolete thing is to use an economic sector to shake the streets. And that doesn't worry you; it seems to you, more or less, to be unique situations. Look, it's been very hard for us to get back to the streets of the Basques and those who visit us, so we can't allow brutes to take over the streets intimidating themselves and strangers. I don't think we can afford that. Of course, our job is going to be that every time there's a single fact of that kind we report it. And it will seem to you that we give the word, but we will denounce it because we cannot afford that luxury. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. García, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u135	They want us to believe that criticism of this tourism model has occurred only this summer, and I think I remember that, at least since I am in this House, we have put on the table the need to rethink and refocus tourism policies. The media, if I am not mistaken, echoed the last Holy Week – literally – of "full feeling" of many citizens in places like the Guggenheim of Bilbao, San Juan de Gaztelugatxe and others. It is not a summer debate; it is a debate that is already coming from afar. We cannot take events and try to cover them with a debate on the tourism model. Let's talk about the tourist model. Do we want to continue to deny this reality and congratulate ourselves all because everything responds to the model that is most economically profitable, or are we able, as you yourself claim, to see the reality that some of our neighbours and workers in the tourism sector are experiencing? Do we really want a balance between the lives of the neighbours of the sites visited and the tourists, or do we want to continue to maintain a profitable model? Mrs. Mari Carmen, you talk about clients and I prefer to talk about travelers. Whenever you want, I haven't said it before, we sit down and talk about it, in privacy or how you feel better. But I've never said it before. Today they have refused to support a GNP proposed by our parliamentary group on the tourist rate, a control measure which, from our point of view, would undoubtedly help to regulate. We believe that this is part of a policy of inaction, of looking elsewhere and of continuing to hide the real debate, the debate that we are prepared to discuss, the debate on tourism. Because today it seems that we have come to talk about something else, but I, in privacy or in the public domain, want us to continue talking about tourism, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u137	I've lowered the posters, since you mentioned them. I'm going to teach them again, because then Mr. Telleria says that we don't recycle, that we only wear one T-shirt at a time. Well, I'm gonna recycle the posters. Because you know what the problem is? It is precisely that problems cannot be solved if they are not even recognized. And you continue to insist on not recognizing things that are more than obvious from my point of view. And one of them is the issue of rents. Of course Donostia is a expensive city, there has always been a housing problem, but yesterday I taught him, I don't know if he saw it (of course, it was the other side): this red part is what has grown in the last two years. And it's true that because people can't access mortgages, because of credit enhancement, etc., etc., there is more demand for rent and has risen the price everywhere, but it is that in Donosti it has risen exponentially. And of course, I told him there was another chart, which is that of the tourist flats throughout the state. And, as you'll see... Because another of the fallacies that arose was that we were accusing ourselves of developing a tourist model of sun and beach. And I told the councilman (that we are of the same people) that I already know the time he does here, that here by sun little we will sell, and more after this summer. But there is an emerging problem, which is that of mass urban tourism, and it is to what the person responsible for Amsterdam referred earlier. And, as you will see, indeed – this is the map of the tourist flats – apart from the coast there are three cities, namely Seville, Madrid and Donostia. So, if I take this and take this, then it can help me to understand that precisely that many floors have moved from the residential market to the tourist market has made them face down, because it reduces the offer of rental apartments. And if also the neighbors of the Old Party of Donostia say that where the price has risen the most is in the Old Party, which is where the most tourist flats are, man, well, I think they are enough evidence to understand that there is an incidence of uncontrolled growth of tourist flats with the rise of rental prices. You denied another evidence; you said "The Old Party is not massified, but what it is that people are going to take pots after the spoils. " Man, yes, because there are places where that happens, but if this is what I read yesterday and I read it again, of the neighbors of Donostia (who do not know if anyone will want to manipulate them, I certainly do not; I give them the voice that others seem to be trying to deny them): "The Old Party is an example of this process of overexploitation: a hostel for every 29 inhabitants, 62 pensions of the 81 that are in the city, 280 tourist apartments, two new hotels under construction; in a neighborhood of 6,000 inhabitants, an offer of 1,600 beds for tourists". These are not people who are going to take a pot, these are beds that are permanently. And that massing is taking place, and if you deny it clearly you are not going to tackle that problem. And now I'm gonna tell you something else. In January, or February, when the counselor appeared, we told him: "In Bilbao there is beginning to be a problem at the level of commercial premises. There is a tremendous impoverishment of the commercial offer, because it is moving to the franchise and multinational model." And now we can tell you that there are investment fund calls in Bilbao to buy flats in the Old Town and in Bilbao Old Town to dedicate them to the tourist market. So, in two years' time, we're not going to take our hands to our heads saying that they're brutally costing themselves, as is already happening, rents in the old part of Bilbao, and that it's becoming a theme park. That's what we tell them. We ask you to act. They say they're not late, and I'm going to read you a news in the Deia – I suppose the source will give you credibility – about the delay in the Basque government's action on the tourist flats. It said: "In view of the high number of tourist homes to which the license has been withdrawn in Bilbao, from Lakua they specified that the exercise of collation of the data had not been carried out since the law came into force." This is September. Since the law came into force in July, no one had collated the data, so the work had accumulated. So, that's when we tell them they're late. And we are indeed committed to the Tourism Act, but I believe that perhaps here the press, or the citizen on foot, do not differentiate the Tourism Act from the tourism policy, but the law creates a framework, and that framework can be developed in one direction or another, because with the Tourism Act itself different tourist policies can be made. And that is where we have the freedom to criticize; at the moment we believe that tourism policies are not in line with the axes that this law is marking, so that we can criticize tourism policy without saying that we are self-amending in our support of the Tourism Act, which we continue to support. About the People's Party and its defense of tourism... Jo, the People's Party is the paradigm of what tourism should not be. Apart from the innovation this recent of the repressive cruises, to put the civil guards on cruises of Piolin and lead them to crush the democracy to Barcelona, the tourist model of the People's Party is a countermodel. It is the model (I don't know if it is, like Mr Becerra will know)..., books can be written, in fact they have been written, and the model that describes the model of tourist development of the People's Party, for example from the point of view of Greenpeace, is called "Destruction at all costs". This brutal, limitless tourist development that does not stop at the recognition of people's rights and also at the respect for the environment. The biggest attack on tourism, not a physical attack, but the attitude that could have caused the greatest damage to tourism in this community in recent times has been the sabotage attitude of the Tourism Act carried out by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, parties with which today the Basque Nationalist Party signs this motion. And that's why I was saying to her: Do you imagine, Mr.Uribe-Etxebarria, that I put in your mouth the words that the spokesman of the People's Party said, and that I had you answer and defend and accuse you of precisely defending that, because you are going to vote with her today a motion? It wouldn't be fair, would it? It wouldn't be fair for all those barbarities to put them in his mouth or say that the PNV said that, would it? Well, please, I ask you and the other groups in the House that when they refer to what EH Bildu says and does, they be faithful to what EH Bildu actually says, and they do not invent things or try to assign us third-party responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u139	Thank you, President. Look, I make my own the words of my secretary-general, Idoia Mendia, when in August I was reflecting on what happened and saying, among other things, that no one can believe that what was five weeks ago was not a fundamental problem five weeks later, after reaching a unanimous agreement in this Parliament in June. And the most unfortunate thing is that Bildu intends to make believe that the institutional and political reaction to the events that took place this summer was disproportionate, is disproportionate. And it seems that some feel the encouragement of those who do not sit in their seats, of those who do not seem to share the institutional decisions Bildu makes. In everything that has happened there is something, if not much, that is alien to tourism. Aside from those 100,000 people who have a job in the tourism sector, apart from the strategic potential of the tourism industry that we have recovered thanks to having rid ourselves of the shadow of terror and thanks to the firm commitment of the tourism sector. They are even more alien reasons when the mayor of Pamplona and the Navarro government boast, and rightly so, of the immense appeal of sanfermines, multiplying the population by seven times in just nine days. He who was mayor of San Sebastián, of Bildu, presumed to beat records of visitors, although during his term the tourist flats proliferated, which began to settle in the center of San Sebastián and in the Old Party without being known any management plan and ordinance to regulate them. Socialists believe that what happens is that the famous "Let them go" is longing for, and that is why the experts in driving away must be clear that others and others will be, as we were in the past for tragic reasons, worked for what most of Basque society wants, among other things, and it is that tourists come, that they know us, that they know what we can offer them, that they stay longer, and that they repeat this experience. But not to become a land of services, but to consolidate an industry, the tourist industry, which makes us grow. With Bildu's amendment, what he has intended is to show more of his discomfort in this debate, his discomfort and his incoherence, and they try again to throw a smokescreen with the excuse of freedom of expression. You welcome tourists saying that the paintings and banners of "Tourist go home" or "Your tourism, the misery of young people" are a disproportionate ball. They call for the development of a sustainable tourism model, as if it were alien to all the other political parties, when it is the model by which the Basque socialists, both in the government and since the opposition, have been committed, and it is the one that mainly occupies the work of the Tourism Councilor, being a firm defender of it, as he demonstrated yesterday and reiterated it again. They urge, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, to defend a law, that of Tourism, which the councillor assumed from the zero minute of his mandate. And, by the way, although it has been said that we are now saboteurs or that we were saboteurs of that law, a law to which the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra gave critical support, whether you like it or not, Mr Casanova. Bildu has once again lacked consistency in the narrative and consistency in the arguments. Tourism is not a problem today in Euskadi, as we were told, Mr Casanova, before the summer, and some of us take care and we will take care not to do so in the future. The Basque Socialists believe that the day will come when Bildu aspires to be proud of having contributed in some way to Euskadi's progress, but, of course, it seems that that moment has not reached them. You spoke, Mr Casanova, of mass urban tourism. Well, we're not in those, Mr. Casanova. We're not. And you know it, but try again to do, anyway, elucubrations. Bildu wants to continue to disguise what happened this summer that the problem is touristic, and it is not, and you know it again. The issue of rent and the problems of rent and price increases is not exclusively from the Old Party, although you rely not on an index that has been obtained in a way..., let's say, with a mathematical analysis, but that's what the neighbors of the Old Party say. Well, no. No, it's not the only place, unfortunately, where rent prices in the city of San Sebastián have increased the most. I can assure you, this is not the place where they've grown the most. And tourism policies are marked by the law, because there are twenty-one principles, twenty-one, that mark the tourism policy that we must carry out and that the counselor must develop. And those policies are marked, and we don't leave a single tourism sector, if you remember well. We don't leave one of us, from the rural, the urban... Do you remember that relationship? Well, we didn't leave one of them. So, I don't know what problem we're talking about. And I'll tell you more, Podemos, and I'll be done in a second. Mrs García, tourism criticism has not been just this summer, you said. But it is that this summer tourism has been used as an excuse to do acts of sabotage, to do acts of threats, coercion... with painted, with banners against the buildings of the Basque Government. That is what we are referring to with the compromise amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And the fee, Mrs. Garcia, is not to control. The fee won't control anything. The rate that it does is to collect, which is what the municipalities want. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. And in the end, Eucabertians, Mr. Uribe-homevary, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I haven't had the chance to answer Mrs. Edurne Garcia before. In short, I don't want to take advantage of it, because I know you don't have the turn to answer it later. Well, I think you set out a series of ideas that we also agree with, and I think yesterday the counselor himself expressed it to you as well. But it is true that in other debates, and in today's and yesterday's debates too, I have the feeling that you are moving geographically and temporarily, because you are trying to transfer to Euskadi situations that are taking place in other parts of Europe and that have nothing to do with it. And the data I think are sufficiently eloquent. So, I think there's a geographic relocation and also a temporary relocation, in the sense that, I think correctly, and that we share, you warn of what can happen. But that's what we share. The problem is that you think what can happen is already happening. And that again the data doesn't corroborate it. And I hope that, in view of the future, yes, on the basis of a number of principles and with some calmness and with some rationality, we can, I do not know, develop common policies, or agreements, etc., etc., that I, in my opinion, see that it is possible. I see it's possible. Guk onartzen ditugu arazoak. We recognize the problems, to the extent that we act, and, as they are, that implicitly is an acknowledgement that the problems exist. But it is that, speaking like that, even recognition itself comes from the law itself. So, this is not obvious that this is a phenomenon that has gone at an exponential speed and that has developed very quickly. And I also want to tell you something else. Not only does Donostia or Bilbao try to deal with this problem, which we too see as real, but there are so many cities in Europe that are doing so. It is therefore not a specific Basque phenomenon, but it is global, western, or at least European. And, therefore, there is a clear recognition of the problem. In two years' time I hope that with the measures being taken, which are in progress, this problem has been largely controlled. And I think that the predictions that the mayors, for example, and specifically the mayor of Donosti, Eneko Goia, have pointed out to us, well, give us a margin of confidence. A clear margin of confidence. Let's see, why...? I do not say that you are responsible for having done the painted, for having ridiculously stopped the train txu-txu, etc., etc. You are responsible for not having convinced or controlled Ernai. But you... Bai, Bai, Bai, Ubera andera. Bai. For Ernai, whom I know, are the youths of Sortu, and Sortu is in a coalition called EH Bildu. But you, if you're not responsible, why do you take responsibility? If you are not responsible, why are you responsible? And why do they organise a meeting at the highest level, the spokesman for EH Bildu in Parliament and the then General Secretary of Sortu, with the Gipuzcoan hoteliers? If you are not responsible, then why are you responsible? And why do they meet with Ernai to tell them a series of things? Well, I've said what I said and I won't repeat it again, and I believe in it and I'm honest with you. And you will see how you take it. I think we have to look forward to this chapter. We have to close it up. This passed, passed in August, but closed by all of them with an engagement: that he will not repeat it again. And there are institutional roads, and there are politicians to direct such debates. And it's a witness of today's debate or of the Basque Act as a whole. And I believe, I insist, that looking to the future there is I believe that a rather broad consensus in this House to say that, well, we want to develop sustainable tourism that is orderly, balanced, of quality, respectful of the environment, with our way of life and our culture and identity, as a result and taking as a methodology, I insist, the institutional framework and the broad consensus that must be given in those institutions between political parties and institutions. I think that's the way. I believe that there is a way to go, and we must take it back, I insist, with the firm and clear commitment that what happened in August will not be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Popular Groups, the Esquilists, and the media that signed Euca Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 46; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-28.u142	So it's accepted to the half-correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six-and-twenty.
