ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question was asked by the members of Mien Josunus Gorospe Elerkano Eerkano, a member of the staff of the United States of England and Treasury, about the meeting of the Mist Committee of Economy on the 17th of May." Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. This week, the day before yesterday, you made the meeting of the Misto Committee planned in the Economic concert on May 17th, and before you confirmed in that meeting, the agreements taken between the Basque and the State government. In those agreements, after several years of discord, there has been some important agreements; others, the permanent settlement of the Cupid, who was lately unexplored, and also of establishing the cup of 2012, which will be the year of its foundation. You're the one who asked for the show, and you're going to be in town next week when you asked for it, and you'll be ready to give us all the explanations required in front of the Ogasun and Presumption Board, so that you can listen to our opinions and our questions. And in this we shall be able to consider this thoroughly, all the members of the legislature. But I heard you're saying in a speech you just gave me that you've already had your own administration meeting, and that this administration meeting is this parliamentary, and that the legislature has a grand assembly and a whole Basque community. Hence, from our legislature, we thought it best to ask this question, on the one hand, because we are all members of the legislature in this section of the legislature, and because it is an opportunity for you that no one edits the descriptions, and, on the other hand, the first questions in the members of the community's meeting are to be seen, to explain to all the citizens the keys of the department, alliance, or agreement. Therefore, counselor, we ask you if you could explain to us what are the keys to the agreement you have adopted in relation to the quota. First of all, thank you for the explanation you're going to give us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank God, Mrs. Gorospe. This week we have indeed experienced a historic moment in Euskadi. Wednesday, I think it was a great day for Euskadi, for its institutions, also for citizens. This Honetan, a historian beats Izan dugu Euskadin. Asteazkena egun handi bat izan zen Euskadirentzat, eta egun berzia izan zen Euskal instituzioentzat, éta bagita herritar guztiontzat era. Since 2007, the Joint Commission on the Concert had not met to set quotas. Euskadiko eta Espainiako gobernuen arteko erlazio finantzarioetan zeuden tirabirei eta ziurtasunik ezeko hamar amaira emateko gai izan gara. We have been able to put an end to ten years of uncertainty in the financial relations between the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. We have begun to walk the path of institutional normality. This has a financial value, yes, but it also has a political value: we have advanced towards more self-government and towards fiscal peace. And this is what I want primarily to highlight: the very existence of the agreement, and the return to the bilaterality of both executives. As you know, a new model of autonomous financing was approved in 2009 and entered into force in 2011. If at that time the law had been applied in accordance with the fifth additional provision of the Five-Year Cup Act 2007-2011, which required a re-estimation of the quota amounts by revising the base year quota and discount rates, we would not be talking about any differences today. What was not resolved at that time, it has been possible to do so now. Therefore, the law of the quota law has only been applied to the figures contained in the State General Budgets to assess the differences. It has been carried out in accordance with the applicable law and budget numbers, and from the knowledge of the technical experts of both Governments. Legality, transparency and knowledge are the only ingredients that have been used to reach this agreement, in addition to the political will of the parties. The resulting figures are those for us in Euskadi by right. The success of this agreement is to have reached itself; it is not about seeking either winners or losers. As you know, I asked for the appearance next Wednesday to give all the details to the parliamentary groups. Let us not forget that this is an agreement of governments, it was our responsibility; therefore, it is a fair and consistent agreement with that established in the Economic Concert, which respects the fury and the egg, using strictly the spirit of bilaterality that is included in it. The signed agreement contains eleven points that I will explain, as I said, in detail next Tuesday. Now only two figures: EUR 1.4 billion, which is the calculation of the discrepancies in the 2007-2016 period in terms of quota and active policies, and on the other hand EUR 1.3 billion, which will be the provisional quota for 2017 and which will serve as the basis for the new five-year law. Konpentsatu beharreko zenbatekoak 1,400 million euros helpzen will say. Finally, I would like to stress once again the importance of this agreement, which involves entering into a period of stability and certainty in financial relations with the State. As I said, a great moment for Euskadi, for our present and for our future. A garrantzitsu beats Euskadirentzat, gure orainerako eta gure etorkizunerako. Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Please let me ask those of you who came in public not to draw a sign, because it's forbidden, or I'll have to throw you out. I warn you, and next time I'm going to have to throw you out, it's forbidden you to leave a billboard in this Parliament in the ploney. Thank you. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the U.S.C.C. de Angulo EH.S.S.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.C.C.S.S.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.C.S.C.S.S.S.C.C.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.C.C.C.S.C.S.S.C.C.S.S.C.C.S.C.C.C.C.C.S.S.S.C.S.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.S.S.S. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Darpón. Two months ago, we signed a good deal on compensation in this Chamber. The majority receive three different points in the semi-protected medium, and amongst these three points there is a point which has never been admitted until now, namely, 447/2013 at the present time, in the case of Omnipotent Decreum, the decree which regulates the supply of medical contributions to facilitate the performance of the aids of the Inferno, to prevent the re-paying of the economic aids, those who are in a state of unemployment, and to ensure that the revenues which are not paid for the revenues which are in legal state. But in March, in the medium allowed, we added other benefices, all the people who live at EAE and receive DBE, to help themselves with treatment. Mr. Darpón, in order to arrange this signed agreement among the four parties, you should change the first decree, and, in fact, EH Collector hasn't heard of it. Moreover, we do not know the opinion of the chief physician, and that is to say, the day when he asks you, that the agreement which I have given him is to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u7	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. President, chief officers, all good days. Mrs. Blanco, it's against the Decree-Ming-I don't think there's any doubt about it. It has been the case with the autonomy first which the groups of weak social condition have offered to follow their medical treatment. In the Basque Government we have always shown rejection of Royal Decree 16/2012; since the beginning of the last legislature we have taken effective measures to alleviate its effects. Thus, in 2013, a decree was adopted that has enabled aid to be granted to the most favoured groups of people to maintain their medical treatment and to alleviate the increase in the pharmaceutical co-payment. In addition, the Basque Government maintains an appeal brought by the former Socialist Party Government against the royal decree before the Constitutional Court. Our approach is therefore clear: we share what has been set out in the agreed compromise amendment, and we are working to comply with it, with responsibility and consistency with the previously established aid. But let me remind you, Mrs Blanco, that it was the parties that supported the Basque Government today that pushed the aid to the co-op in Euskadi. In October 2013, a transactional amendment between the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party was adopted, an amendment urging the Government to take measures to ensure that people in need and disease have access to pharmacological treatments. And yet, Mrs. White, you..., EH Bildu at that time abstained. Therefore, with regard to aid to alleviate the increase in the pharmaceutical co-op, the Basque Government has been a driving force and a pioneer. In this regard, it should be recalled that Euskadi has been the first autonomous community to take action, which has been effectively implemented for the fourth consecutive year. At this time, more than 300,000 people have benefited from the more than EUR 20.5 million allocated by the Basque Government to this aid. And now, considering the proposition received in this legislature, we are considering how far and how fitly it is to do so. That job is important so things can be done properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u8	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u9	Thanks for the help we've got today and our current situation, but we knew it, and that wasn't the question. Let's hope we're lucky on the second round, we're more lucky. Lo están compartiendo, lo stidento... , well, I don't quit. I didn't get past the pastus visa to my mouth. Look, the decree that is in force today, that of the Basque Government, to deal with this royal decree of 2012, in the case of the unemployed only serves those who are not on the ground: in the basement, who neither receive unemployment benefit nor receive GIR (i.e. zero euros). By the way, Mr Rajoy's royal decree at this point is even more permissive, because the persons who receive a social benefit are exempt from the medication. What this House has asked you, the two groups that support the government included, is that it attends to more people, that it also assists other collectives, that it compensates all people who are unemployed and those who charge GIR (about 50,000 more people, according to our calculations). And yes, we abstained. We abstained, but it took us four years (four years) to include the point contained in that compromise amendment, and you have finally accepted it. Therefore, if they have accepted, they shall comply with the agreement as soon as possible. And that you say what you say, but we think you are very uncomfortable with this agreement: that you were uncomfortable or that you didn't know what we signed a couple of months ago. One or the other thing, or both, we don't know, because up till now, as I've said, we don't know. And look what we've tried! Amendment to the budgets (EH Bildu), to extend the item of the pharmaceutical copayo. The Social Budgets voted against. Neither have you expanded the game, which is expandable; you could have done it, but you haven't. They haven't even amended the decree, as I told you. And we just want that game to be spent. Everything, and more. And more. Not by whim: to attend to people who are not being cared for right now. Therefore, comply with what has been agreed here. Because it may seem to you that the expense some people have to spend on medication is little. How much can you match, Mr. Darpón? Six, twelve, sixteen bars of bread? How many? But don't forget that today there are many families that also have to contain spending even on what they spend on bread, because, if not, they don't arrive at the end of the month. As I said two months ago, cover it, because it's a good deal and it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u11	Mrs. White, look, you abstained. Families have been charging for four years, mainly thanks to groups that support the Government today. You change the speech (you give much more importance to spending than to need), because many times the need is covered. I mean, it's not that you've been asking for change for four years; it's that we've been helping families with spending, despite your abstention. And, as I said, we are working to implement the agreed compromise amendment. Amendment which is not yours; it is joint, Mrs Blanco. Don't forget. And it is easy to understand that it has not yet been two months to amend a decree that takes its time in the administrative process, and, as I have told you, we are analysing the possibilities and their budgetary implications, as well as the best way to carry it out. As you know, the approved text includes the collective of collectors of the GIR, which was already exempt and already applied in Euskadi the exemption. Therefore, Mrs Blanco, do not point out what does not belong to you. Be calm: those families who are waiting will surely be waiting with confidence in the Basque Government, that we will fix the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u12	Thank you, chief physician. Third point in theme list: "The question is, you know, about Martín together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Ogas and Economics Chief, Iberdronla to the Company." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u13	Egun on. Eskerrik asko, Azpiazu Sailburua, summer workers too. In 2015 Iberdrola was fined €25 million for manipulating the electricity system in 2013, in the midst of a cold wave and one of the peaks of the crisis, with the sole aim of earning more money at the cost of everyone's pocket, also from the Basque Government. Last week, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office reported these practices to the National Court. Also yesterday Iberdrola, under – it seems to be – orders of the government, entered with a legion of anti-disturbing to cut off the light and part of the dreams to the entire neighborhood of Errekaleor. Returning to the context of the investigations to Iberdrola, the counselor answered questions from the media. On the one hand, he claimed that he would not speculate, but on the other hand he also stated that Iberdrola – and I open quotes – "is a great company that always operates in a transparent way and according to the rules of the game". I therefore ask you, Mr. Counsellor, do you think that Iberdrola is a transparent company?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u15	Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning. Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, I'll answer your precise question and you're being precise about transparency. In this fun we sing about the transparency and communications of corporate management to come in and look out. And in that sense, our subsidies are going for fun. However, the case we are dealing with and on which you are asking at this time refers to aspects that are missing from us at this time. It is in court, as you have said; therefore, maximum respect in this regard. But if we focus on aspects of transparency I will not give you any beliefs, (as you say, "believe...") or views of the government. I'm going to stick to some published data. In this regard, on the transparency of Iberdrola, I will refer to a report on transparency of fiscal responsibility, for example, which refers to all companies in Ibex 35. As you know, they are subject to strict principles and guidelines of action, which are examined, analysed and included in reports. In the case to which I am referring, transparency in tax matters is quite strict, and it is up to the same companies to follow up and give the relevant data. Between 2014 and 2016 it has been significantly improved, and there are also communication channels, complaint channels, as a useful tool to improve that transparency. The report states that Iberdrola leads kennels dealing with aspects such as compliance with tax regulations, code of good tax practice, or providing information on its economic assets, and is also among the companies that best detail and make visible the information of all its audits. That's only in terms of tax matters. In short, in terms of transparency, Iberdrola complies more than adequately with the required requirements, and goes a little further. Therefore, it is a value that we from the government demand from all our companies, and in this regard, I insist, we refer to the data. And the data says that Iberdrola is a transparent company, which is what you were asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u17	Thank you. Thank you for the answer. Madam Counsellor, but if we talk about transparency in Iberdrola and if we talk about transparency in this situation that is being investigated, I think we should talk – and the government knows this fact perfectly well, and it's fine how it is done – about what we pay Iberdrola and other companies in terms of social emergency aid, to pay the bills that our citizens cannot cope with. These investigations, what they're doing is proving... And we'll have to quantify how many of those bills, how much more money we've paid to Iberdrola in this case, for those abusive practices. And I think that is what we need to focus the government's action on. There was also the question of transparency. Because obviously they will meet many of the requirements of Ibex 35 for the transparency policies of their own companies, but the National Commission on Markets and Competition (which is not my group, Elkarrekin Podemos) is the one that fined, and the National Court is investigating practices that at least do not seem transparent. And we were also bringing this initiative because we are going to continue working on this issue, because we believe and believe that it is a matter of rights, transparency as I said, and control. Rights because there is no effective guarantee that the law is being enforced. Transparency because there is an electric tariff system that is not transparent, which is rather opaque, at the service of large companies. And of control also of these practices, but also of control, which we believe is necessary, of the payments made by the government, so fashionable in recent times. Because we have to make sure that, with the social emergency aid that is being paid, companies are not doing abusive practices with what they are charging us. Because they are companies that play on the basis of the energy they plug into the network, they play with their multi-million dollar profits, they play with tax engineering, however transparent it is (they pay less percentagely than the income of the work), but it is that above they are allowed the luxury, as in the case of these specific topics of Iberdrola, to cheat and to commit allegedly a crime. The National Court will determine what it has to determine. And I was asking you for that and we were asking Mr Azpiazu – in this case also you, the whole government – to stay first with that first part of prudence, and also with a political will to ensure transparency in making payments by the government, and also with a clear political will to recover those possibly undue payments that have been made to the Iberdrola company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u19	I understand, Mr Martínez, that you want to mix here a lot of things by taking advantage of what you have placed yourself in this rostrum. However, let us not mix concepts. First and foremost, for this government, I have told you, one of its main actions is to seek transparency in companies, to work on internal and external communication, and all our aid and collaborations in improving management, in advanced management, as you well know, are all aimed at that, to improve transparency and communication. The Government's position is therefore clear. Secondly, the electricity tariff system, of course, does not fall within the competence of this Parliament. We'd like it to be, but it's not. It is the competence of the State. So, I encourage you there, who also have representation, wherever you work. You talk about that somehow you don't believe in tax transparency rates, because you do tax engineering. Well, that's beliefs and opinions. The report is backed by data, then we're going to stick to data. To data that are measured according to internationally endorsed indices and ways of measuring. You will like it or not, but internationally endorsed, and it's data. And, as you said, "presumably" abusive. We're still under investigation. As far as I know, nothing has yet been proved, and the only two sentences there are in favour of Iberdrola. I mean, it's been shown there was nothing. So, let's be careful, as you said, and let's wait for what gives you that investigation. So far, he hasn't given anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the United States of Kareto St. Vicente Basque Sociialist, made to the chief of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, concerning the state of the consumption arbitration system in Euscadice." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. Today it's time to talk about consumption, and I'm going to go to Murphy's legislative production (you know, the one who said "There's nothing wrong that's not likely to get worse"), which has three laws: one is Sineto's, the other is Savignano's, and the other is Beryl's. Sineto's says that if you buy a product and have a 60-day warranty, that product is prepared for self-destruct on the sixty-one day (it happened to me with a refrigerator). The Savignano Act provides that if you purchase a product by mail and do not make the timely claim will not reach you, and that if you do, it will reach you before the claim reaches its destination. And Beryl says that if you buy a product, the next week it will be published in The Consumer Magazine and will be considered unacceptable, and that just the one that was about to catch, but that left, is the one that will be considered the best. Humor sometimes serves to make a caricature of reality, but reality exists. In the year 2016 more than 19,000 complaints were processed in Euskadi, in different ways, mainly in the field of energy, in the field of telecommunications, also of computer equipment, of household appliances... That is, 19,000 claims are many, and there are 19,000 cases in which there is a dispute that may have two paths: the judicial path, or the out-of-court path. The judiciary knows that it is sometimes almost a dead end, especially in time, and the out-of-court is the most pragmatic, the most effective. A good minister of justice who was not from the People's Party (i.e. from the previous stage, from the Socialist Party) said that people's rights are worth what their guarantees are, and, indeed, for one to have guarantees about their rights it needs that they are agile, that they are free, that they are binding in the resolution. And, in that sense, for a long time now there has been a system and a model of mediation and arbitration treatment about consumption, about the services that are consumed, about the products that are consumed. In that regard, his department had made a campaign of more motivation, more momentum, for three months. It is about to end (it began in March, it will end in May). And in that campaign, it is intended that more companies should adhere to that arbitration system, so that, first through mediation and then through that binding arbitration, these conflicts can be resolved within a very prudent time frame, approximately within three months of these claims being raised. The aim of this campaign is to enable more companies to join than those that are already members, and to enable more consumers to access them. We are actually talking about a formula that creates guarantees of consumer rights, but it also creates confidence in the products and services that businesses give to consumers. Therefore, we are talking about a problem that affects all citizens sooner or later, and it is interesting to know when that campaign is at, what results it has, what it can offer us in this regard as an impetus to consumer arbitration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u23	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Prieto, a good number of complaints are indeed accumulating each year in the field of consumption. I don't know if by the three laws that you have spelled out or simply by the reality of things and the conflict that arises when two actors, two actors, interact in the market. But I do agree with you in the need not only to channel those claims, but to do so effectively. In this quest for effectiveness in the response, which is quick and simple, my department is committed to mediation, and within mediation through the arbitration tool, which is not only a key tool to defend consumers' rights, not only to effectively generate confidence also about companies and professionals, but also an element that can help to enhance the culture of responsible, ethical and supportive consumption, for which we bet. In that quest to promote this arbitration system, an arbitration system that, as you have said, is an out-of-court way that saves time, that saves cost, that is easier for users, that is voluntary (applies when both parties agree) and that is binding, executive and also free, we are actually developing a campaign to promote adherence to the arbitration system of more companies than those already in our register. This campaign is basically based on the work of a specialized and trained team for this purpose, which first contacts the companies and then makes individual presentations explaining to the companies the operation of the arbitration system. In that campaign, at the beginning of the campaign – which actually started in March and ends at the end of this month – we set ourselves the objective of joining nine hundred more companies, four hundred of them referring to sensitive sectors of the field of consumption, which generate a greater number of complaints. At this point I can say, with the data I already have, that both objectives have already been exceeded. In total there are already 1,157 new companies joined, and waiting for that number to increase by the end of the campaign. We will continue with such campaigns, and we will also encourage other measures to help promote the arbitration system. We already said here in attendance, in the first parliamentary appearance, that we faced the three areas of responsibility of the department from a cross-sectional perspective. Well, on this issue, we have already incorporated the criterion of accession to the consumer arbitration system into MET aid (for the modernisation of tourism companies) as a positive step towards obtaining such aid. In addition, we must also recognize the importance of users requesting this service, which calls for companies to join the consumer arbitration system, and therefore, in Kontsumobide's communication actions both in the media and in networks (Internet, etc.) we are going to focus on this issue. If consumers and users value, when making a purchase decision, this system, this will make more companies adhere to the system and, therefore, enhance this effective route.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u24	Thank you, chief physician. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the form of taxation." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Recently, and in the light of the analysis that is being made of the results of the tax reform that we were able to agree on and that we agreed together recently, three years ago, there has been a cross of contradictory statements between members of the party that supports the Basque Government and that also supports the outlaws. Councillor Azpiazu seems to be in favour of increasing fiscal pressure, of expressing companies a little more to increase collection, and the outlaws, the deputies general of the territories, who are all of his party, seem reluctant to that position and say that they only want to make small changes. Therefore, the feeling that it is moving is that there is no clear thought as to what the orientation of fiscal policy in Euskadi has to be. It is up to you to set that position, discard those debates that create uncertainty, and be able to agree with yours. It is curious what is happening, because we have reached important agreements; you have demonstrated the ability, and we too have shown, to close pacts between different, and you have shown a great inability, so far in the legislature, to close pacts between equals. They do not agree on the system of contributions between the Members of Parliament and the Basque Government, nor do they agree on the direction of fiscal policy. I therefore ask you, as lehendakari, to make clear the direction and direction you want to give to fiscal policy by the government you preside over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Alonso, you're asking me to set the position. Does it say so by any interview holder published in any particular medium of communication? Don't you? The question you ask me is whether I consider it necessary for a fundamental tax reform to guarantee public services, and I say to you that I consider it necessary to update the legislation in force to ensure public services and business competitiveness. From this basis, I appreciate the need for substantive reflection and analysis on the results of the previous tax reform; also a substantive commitment to ensure the sustainability of public services; and also a substantive commitment to generate the conditions that turn economic growth into quality employment. And also, as you appeal, a fundamental consensus to preserve stability and not turn the fiscal issue into a bold weapon between political parties and institutions. I plan to apply the working method that has made it possible to achieve fiscal peace with the agreement of the quota. That is, a shared diagnosis and discreet technical work, concrete measures with medium-term vision, and above all political will in agreement. We share and believe that it is possible to maintain incentives to improve competitiveness and economic progress, collect enough to ensure social welfare, and further reduce tax fraud by reviewing the current sanctions system. The position of the lehendakari, therefore, has been clear, is written in the government program, and says "To encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the precise fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, you will understand that this is a crucial issue for us, and it is also central to the political discourse that we want to develop and to the agreement that we want to maintain with you, which has led us to approve this year's budgets and that we want it to have continuity. But you have to have a very clear idea. And you talk about medium-term policies: I want to push forward medium-term and long-term policies in Euskadi. And I think that we have an opportunity, in a framework of stability, in a framework where we now also have a fiscal peace that promises to last for a few years, we have an opportunity to guide a policy that guarantees public services since the enlargement of the taxpayer base, of the wealth Euskadi has. This cannot be done by raising the tax burden on families or by tightening businesses more closely. And it is crucial that you choose between a model or another model. And I think we had chosen that model, and we had chosen a model that bets on growth and that bets that the real social policy that works is employment, and that believes that Euskadi has to grow and that he has that opportunity! And that's where we can then reach agreements that work and are agreements with a long-distance vision. And that is why it is vital for us, and that is why we introduced in our agreement a clause which explicitly spoke about this issue and which I ask you to comply with. And it was clear that under no circumstances will the fiscal pressure on middle and low incomes be increased, and that fiscal policy is to be used as a tool for the competitiveness of our companies and that Euskadi is an attractive place for investors to come. Therefore, this is the position of my group and what I am asking you to do, also in compliance with the agreement we have signed. And I'll tell you more. When we see the increase in collection in the first months of this year, and we see that it is rising above 10%, we realize that economic growth is making Basque farms recover the collection that was lost as a result of the crisis, and that it is therefore working. There is a clear recovery in the level of income, and therefore it is necessary now, in that scenario where income is recovered, that we think of fiscal policy as a lever to compete, that we therefore also turn to why companies in the Basque Country pay higher rates than in the rest of Spain, and that we come to the conclusion – which is what I ask you, Mr Azpiazu – that you think about lowering the corporate tax rate and do not think about putting companies at a competitive disadvantage in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Alonso, this is also a major issue for us. And you have made, in what is guidance, certain considerations. I would like to reiterate that for us the two objectives are important: both to encourage activity and employment, and to act realistically and responsibly to ensure the sustainability of essential services. In the context of the IRPF, yes, there has so far been an increase in collection, and also an increase in the progressive nature of the tax. And we continue to share the goal of not putting the tax burden on the middle and lower classes. And with regard to corporate tax, I'll tell you, Mr. Alonso... You know that one thing is the nominal rate and another is the actual tax paid, after tax deductions that encourage investment, innovation or job creation. This is the real objective element that we must use to make homogeneous comparisons. Our conclusion is that corporate tax reform has not adversely affected the competitiveness of the business fabric. And at this point I am sending a message of certainty: we are proposing measures to update and improve existing legislation and deepen our commitment to fraud and tax evasion. All this with the dual aim of consolidating economic recovery and employment, as well as ensuring the sustainability of public services. All this always following its analysis, the technical proposal and the consensus within the Tax Coordination Body, in which the Basque Government and the outlaws participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, made by the members of the board of the Ostero Galirdo EH, to the President, in relation to the judicial proceedings of the Iberdronlas." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u33	Good morning, everyone. Good morning to the staff upstairs too. Life is funny sometimes, e, Mr. Urkullu. The last week the Civil Guard was news of a supposed corruption inside the Iberdron residence, and yesterday the Iberdronla was cutting the light from the edge, by order of the Department of Industry. I wanted to report the scandals of the Iberdron and ask the government what measures it will take in front of the abuses of the Iberdron. But after last night, I think I got the answer... It is therefore in my head and in my heart, to-day. So a hug from here, to every 150 of my friends and fighting friends, St. Johnto, Estii, Isai, Confess, and WAY, of course, was left without electricity yesterday. A big kiss from here. You guys happy with yesterday? I was at least ashamed of myself when I was yesterday. It seems to me yesterday you didn't cut off the electricity by a security affair, because there were a lot of paranoians, but because you don't stand the chance of the Recacle alive. You'd like to have a row that wanted to be buried under the roof of the apartment, but here it is, in the pool of life, with the power of showing that other living creatures are possible and with the power of light...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u34	Mr. Otero, I'm sorry. I gave you half a minute to talk about it. The question is, the interpelration is another question, about the judicial processes that are taking place in the Iberdronla Corporation. Or that's what we're here for. I left you a minute and a half. I think I've been generous, because it has nothing to do with the subject. If you want to ask a question about it, you have not the next week to do it next. You know the rules here. Then, please, I'd like to concentrate on my interference, or I'll have to cut you, you know. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u35	Give me... Well, I thought I was talking about the Iberdroner, and yesterday Iberdron was in the habit of rekalein, but well. Utzidazue, beraz, joaten cage, gay beasts bat balitz bezala. - Yeah. - Yeah, urtera joango naiz: gyro ekonomikoa nahasi samarra zegoen, éta Iberdrolaren inguruan tirabira handi edo dezenteak zeuden; ACS eta Électricité de France enpresek Iberdrola kontrolatu nahi zuten, éta handik gutxira, sozialistek, Legebiltzar honetan, Iberdrola babesteko proposeen bat aurkeztu zuten... 2008. That's what I'm talking And the Socialist proposal said: "The Basque Parliament supports the Iberdrola company to maintain its status as a Basque energy company and to continue, from its location in Euskadi, without being fragmented, to be a leader in the energy sector and to bet on the new sources of renewable energy". Eta gehitzeko emendakin bat ere onartu zen egun hartan: "The Basque Parliament urges the Spanish Government, through regulatory policy, to promote the development of an energy industry that responds to the interests of consumers". And something else. It was admitted, probably with a good will, because it was the intention of all the groups to keep a large Basque company with euscal workers in his home and his tax payment in the Basque Country. But there were differences in discourse. Patxi Lópezek defendatu zuen proposimena, eta hau esaten zuen: "This is a proposal for the highest representative institution of Basque society, this Parliament, to close ranks around a company as emblematic and as necessary for the country as Iberdrola. We believe that further progress needs to be made towards a real competition model, through which consumers have ensured a good quality supply, at reasonable costs and with a clear commitment to environmental responsibility." I don't know whether the Iberdron continued this discussion or not. It seems to me, rather than to continue the discussion here, that the Iberdron prefers the members of certain parties to sit in his Administration and so on, to oil good relations with the Jesuits, socialists, and populars. Nik ere ez dakit Iberdrolak hemen onarturikoa irakurri zuen ala ez, that part of the development of an energy industry that responds to the defense of the interests of consumers, or the offer of energy at reasonable costs, because it is, at least, a little ironic that in this Parliament the defense of Iberdrola and the defense of the interests of consumers would unite, and now Iberdrola is being fined and prosecuted for cheating on light prices. What I'm telling you is, if this congressman trusted the Iberdrola, he's dropping that confidence down the toilet with the practice of the last few years. And that the time has come to take measures, and that it is time for this government to remove itself from the Iberdropola, and from the conduct of it and its laws. Oh, aberta la veta de ser mulet de corpus, todo cabe? If in 2008 there could be any doubt about the ethics or honesty of Iberdrola's business practices, almost ten years later I fear there is none left. When the judge of the Ismael Moreno National Court admits a complaint from the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office against Iberdrola for manipulating the price of light in winter 2013 and illegally profiting, in the midst of a cold wave and with rampant energy poverty rates, and when the Civil Guard enters the headquarters to search for evidence, it simply overflows a glass that had been filled with all kinds of irregular or illegal practices. Because Iberdrola before Basque company is a globalized shark that swims in international waters, and responds, as its president Sánchez Galán (that gentleman who charges I believe that ninety times the salary of our lehendakari), responds, I say, to his board of shareholders. And who are the main shareholders in Iberdrola? For they are the State of Qatar, they are the Bank of Norway, they are BlackRock, the world's largest investment management company... With that panorama, Mr. Urkullu... Who do you think the Iberdron is answering? The 200,000 Arabs, the guitars, and the vicissis who can be poor? The law? You? Or the international investors? If you have any doubts, next time Sánchez Galán tells you to go to business trips, ask him. Anyway, the artificial ascent of the power price wasn't discovered in Madrid today. As has been said, the National Committee of Markets and Competition has fined the Iberdronist for the same subject, 20 million euros, already 2015. year (s). They thought it proved that the Iberdron control of the hydraulic Plants before auction of 2013. It was a grave, and the government had to change the whole auction system. And, by the way, it was the fourth time that the Committee of Precinct punished the Iberdrol. It is shown that Iberdrola has demonstrated bad practices at times when the crisis was hitting the population most strongly. In some cases, there are sanctions, there are firm sentences; in others, there are allegations. But what is obvious is that Iberdrola is a giant that seeks the maximum benefit, taking advantage of its position of dominance in the market, twisting the rules for its own benefit, when not violating them, buying the silence or complicity of media and politicians. One day the news lasted in the press. One day. And one day it took several councillors from this government to go out and wave to Iberdrola. If it were few, we must confess that the residence of a giant from the Iberdrogic as Iberdropol hasn't solved our main concerns. The neuroptic Euskal addict hasn't come down. Retractable energy hasn't spread in our territory. We're making an international riffraff with our retatory percentage. He has not, in any way, avoided extreme weakness. On the contrary, the merchants, such as Iberdronla, Endesa, and Gas Natural, have traded markets, increased the prices, and conditioned the practice of government. Ask why we live in the world for self-sumption, the mad investment of complex cycles between the state or why we're paying for it. As far as we're concerned, it's clear that as far as the energy is an indispensable theme in our society and the tendency to the trappings of giant companies, we must begin to modify our approach to energy itself, and we must leave the subject to the hands of unprofited corporations or public corporations. We won't make much of it, it's true, if we punish the Iberdronla and push another giant company with the same scheme. But let's push other examples. Tell us all this, what would we like to hear? Well, it's pretty simple. That this government and its members will take whatever measures they require against abuses. That's what we came here to ask, but, well, we also brought some suggestions. It's one of those things that you're going to do from now on, and you're gonna have to put clauses against corruption: Let no public contracts be obtained by the corporations of judicial proceedings for cheating. Or begin to encourage public authority, to become a democratic control. Or place the principle of wisdom in diplomacy: We ask you not to risk the name of fun when the presidents or members of the government put their faces in the international business of Iberdorla, you look like Araba, Bizia, and all the inhabitants of Gipu. Don't forget. And generally, putting the Iberdol in the cymbal, like any other suspect, you know this. Chicho and his gang are not doomed, but in case, apart from this. Well, with the Iberdrol, the same thing. The coworker's reactions were resumed, etc....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u36	Thank you... Thank you, Mr. Otero. Your time is up. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u37	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Otero, I was wondering if you wouldn't use this tribe to confuse everything. But, well, first of all, I'll answer to the statement of the interpenetration, and then I'll try to answer other things too. And as I have already mentioned in the preceding question, the cause of this dispute is an affair in the courts of justice, I hubish it. That was the internship. Then you've confused everything, but that's what it was. And in this sense it is in the field of Justice. In the field of justice, and, we may say, when nothing is yet proved. It's as if I were entirely out of reach of my heart, and I have little to explain in that sense: In so far as it is in the power of justice, it must really be proved that some data or no which these existing investigations give. So, with all due respect... And, as much as you ask and ask this government about what it is going to do, of course – I have previously answered Mr Martínez, and Mr Otero is interested in the same thing, in theory and in writing, because after he has told us a lot more about it here – he makes reference to aspects that go beyond this parliamentary sphere, and, of course, go beyond the work of the executive. It is focusing on a specific practice of a company, Iberdrola, which is unproven and is being investigated. Let us therefore give room to that concrete practice on which you ask. Because you don't ask about the whole company: you ask about a concrete practice. We are urged to improve business management, but I also told Mr Martínez, in that sense, to improve management, transparency... From 2014 to 2016, with data, the company Iberdrola improving its transparency and its situation, with indices that perhaps, like Mr Martínez, you do not like either, but that is on the margin and in the area of opinion. They are contrasted data and tell us that there is an appropriate practice in that regard. You're asking me to appreciate the damage. It is also in the court: let us see what it gives, and no doubt about it, if there are irregularities, then we shall decide what to do, but there is nothing in the meantime. You say it was a thing in 2013. If we consider the data of 2013 and what I know and what's publicized... At this moment the investigation is complicated, and the decision that the fine required is as a statement of 2015, and at this moment, even if you know that it is cut down, and we all know that it is cut down because the appeal granted by the company may have something, so that the fine is suspended at this moment. It's not about paying and then we'll see, but it's broken. And it's only up to now. We know two judgements, and there's a reason for both of them, just as you know, even though you've confused everything you've done, and there's a sentence you've been trying to tell me about... The only thing that's got to be is it's been suspended, everyone else is on the side. It is an investigation, we said, of the year 2013 that we are dealing, at least in theory, according to the inquiry that you have put, and, of course, it is a somewhat complex administrative process, in which, well, from a series of data and investigations that were carried out by the CNMC there was a sanctioning resolution that at the moment the National Court, the National Court itself, has decided to suspend cautiously. That is to say, Iberdrola has not been told to the company "Submit this fine and then we will see", but it suspends cautiously. Then there must be something that urges the National Court to suspend it. As you refer to this whole area, I am referring to that area too. It is the public information that exists and that you know as well as I do. It is a judicial case, of course, and the matter under investigation has a lot of files, decisions, appeals and so on. In the absence of this definitive resolution, the concrete and definitive decisions that currently exist are two, as you also know: the judgment of 4 July 2012, by which the National Court annuls the only sanction imposed on Iberdrola, based on facts similar to those investigated in 2013 (can be annulled, the only one that existed), and another decision of the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office to file (February 2016) a complaint in this Facua case, for similar facts. Then two final sentences, and both in favor of Iberdrola, and the other suspended. That is the situation we are in, and those are the concrete facts that I can put to you. From there, you are speaking to us as if, of course, we were part of Iberdrola's shareholdership. Neither this House nor the Government are part of that shareholder. And, by the way, you used an expression, which referred to – I understand – I don't know whether the Basque Government or the Basque Nationalist Party, which was talking about "broken people", and I would ask you to clarify that concept, because, of course, if I understand it in a very specific way, the accusation you make to us is very serious, and that accusation should be based on data and facts. And from there I prefer not to continue with this topic. Besides, when you say we have the worst place in self-consumption. You remembered where the law is, didn't you? The Autosumption Act is in Congress. The Autosumption Act is run by a minister. Isn't it? Yeah. And you know, too, I'm sure it's just fun that's taken him away and what he wants to do. Well, let's keep it that way. So don't put the thing about us and our self-consumption on our back because that's somewhere else. And it's not in Iberdor's hands, it's in the minister's hands. So, mix things up... It's complicated when we get out here. Retractable energy, how much you like that theme. Too bad Mr. Casanova isn't here. I'm very surprised that you're not going to be able to bring them here because when you're responsible, there's no order here for re-enacting energy. If only you'd like to make an investment with someone at the moment with a private company or with a public, you'll tell me where he's got it? Can you tell me? If I were to take him as the best will and chief physician to the government Council, where should I put him? You're the one who's not in the middle now, and you know that we've been offering you over and over again in the previous law and in this law, so that we've come to a certain agreement, because it's easy to say, "There's no retractable energy in the Euscadin." Where are we supposed to put it? No oil, no strength coming from the sun, nothing to say in the sea. So, where do we put the retactive energy? It's easy to fill your mouth, but when you really have to put it, where and how. So, let's be, please... Let's keep some consistency in some way. And above all, in coming to the point, the whole trial today is judicial, and let's see what it looks like. And so let's make our decisions without confounding all the issues, Mr. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u39	Yes, good morning again. Mrs. Tapia, you've made a touching defense of the Iberdron. If I were Mr. Sánchez Galán, I'd share the double galletite today. But I'm not, and I'll tell you again what it's like to cheat systematically, because today's the case with la gota que colma el vaso, and I'll make a sequence for you. 2006 condemns Iberdrola for electropollution. 2007 National Competition Commission sanction of 38 million for abuse of dominant position. 2009, Iberdrola sues the State of Guatemala to ICSID, for limiting the price of electricity (according to Iberdrola, it stopped earning $336 million, and claimed 672). 2009 CNMC sanction (15 million) for denying its competitors access to the supply point information system. 2009, Iberdrola pays tax on companies in the Vizcaine Arks at 0 %. 2009, the Spanish elephant killer inaugurated a combined cycle plant built by Iberdrola in Latvia. 2010, the scandal jumps: five Latvian managers are arrested accused of receiving Iberdrola bribes of more than 7 million euros. 2012, Iberdrola separates five managers from the scandal. There are similar cases in Albania, Bolivia, Brazil, Syria... - I'm sorry. - Iberdrola pays corporate tax on the Vizcaine arks (second consecutive year) at 0 %. - I'm sorry. - The CNMC sanctions Iberdrola (10 million euros) for unfair competition, for transferring customers among its traders. 2013. Mr Urkullu and Mrs Tapia are attending the signing of an Iberdrola contract in the United States. It's all right here! 2014, Facula's famous complaint of charging users a plus for smart accountants without providing the services provided by these accountants. 2015. CNMC's fine (25 million) for very serious infringement: manipulating the reservoirs and getting consumers to pay more for the receipt of light. Profit of the company, 21 million; damages for the users, 105 million euros. 2016, Castilla-La Mancha: Iberdrola sanctioned (€1.5 million) for very serious violations of nature conservation and against protected wildlife. 2016. Intermon Oxfan publishes a study on tax havens of Spanish companies. Iberdrola, of course, on the podium: 69 subsidiaries in tax havens (69, capitalist eroticism). 2017, January. The wind mafia of Castile and Leon is being cleared up. Between 2004 and 2009, there was a corrupt plot (the alleged one) between PP and Iberdrola charges. Presumably again, Iberdrola pays 41 million euros to Alberto Esgueva, Iberdrola's partner in the Spanish and vocal energy society of Excal, the agency that granted the permits (and my source here is the Tax Agency). Twenty-one persons charged with prevarication, laundering, tax offences and influence trafficking, including four Iberdrola managers. 2017. Thanks from the CNMC again to Iberdrola, for formalizing gas and electricity contracts without the consent of the customers. The M.O.? Sending a legion of commercials to retail, outsourced, knocking door to door and cheating on vulnerable customers and elderly people, promising light discounts and making new contracts with those who ended up paying more, including services that were useless, according to statements by the commercials themselves. March 2017. The Supreme condemns Iberdrola for concealing information from 2010 and 2011 about power cuts due to default in Madrid. Iberdrola turned off more than 350,000 clients in the state in those two years. More, 2017. Iberdrola absorbs the Iberinco subsidiary, because it has damaged its international image too much. Summary: electropollution, abuse of dominant position, denial of access to information to the regulator, fiscal engineering, corruption, unfair competition, charging tolls, charging without providing services, handling auctions, infringements against protected wildlife, contracts without consent, tax havens... What has to happen to act and get away from Iberdrola, Mr. Urkullu? To finish, May 2017, last week: the Civil Guard enters to register the headquarters of Iberdrola. The news shines in the media, but the next day it's gone. Good sample of what it means to have the frying pan by the handle. The next day Pedro Azpiazu states: "Iberdrola is a great company that always operates transparently and according to the rules of the game". And Arantza Tapia says, "We have to be respectful of the times and see the conclusions." Little to add, ladies and gentlemen. The last one in Errekaleor, but since they won't let me talk about it... Do you know what this reminds me of? To a phrase that is erroneously attributed to Mr. Roosevelt speaking of the dictator Somoza, who said, "He is a son of a bitch, but he is our son of a bitch." Well, let's see if they're taking action now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Otero. If those words don't sound better, here. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u41	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Oster, suddenly in the Iberdron trial, you've become a prosecutor, and you've taken a lot of... All right! But this is precisely what I have said before: Let's not confuse things. I'm not going to defend myself because I'm not a judge or a lawyer or a prosecutor, I'm nothing. We were, in this interpelation, talking about a very special subject. And indeed... No, no! Your interpellation says what you say; you then come out here and say what you think. I think it's fantastic. Now, you and I were talking about exactly what happened with the Civil Guard entrance and how we're going to act. That's what I was saying, and that's what I'm going to answer to. The scope of action and decision-making is not the responsibility of this Parliament or this Basque Government. And it is true that, as it cannot be otherwise, presumption of innocence. Because you're also talking about "supposedly"! Well, let's wait for what happens! We can neither act nor make any decision before it is resolved, and after it is resolved I understand that neither can we. And you've mixed up a lot of things and a lot of different fines, but in this case we were talking about a very concrete one. And we all have a great interest in doing things right, and when the fines are to be put and paid, of course. And I think, not just the Iberdrons, but all the corporations in this town have that interest, okay? Before I'm done, I want to tell you something, especially it's strange to me, and I'm really telling you: At many times, you have the national audience, the Attorney General of the State, when you want to doubt them, but suddenly, in this case, you give him a terrible credit. What's the matter: Yes, when it's convenient, when it's not convenient... Well, I'll tell you only that we always respect him when an investigation like this goes on: let us see what is the matter, but, in truth, as there is no fine by the corruption, let us see what happens, and see what happens. And from that point on, like so far, the fun will continue to see the senses of all companies, from where and how they work, but, as I said before, what each company does in this country is doing, what it contributes, from the point of view of work, from the economy, and from the point of view of good things, and they must be considered. And don't confuse everything and come here like you're the senior prosecutor. I generate art. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the Council of Leire Pinedo Bustate EH are assembled to the president about the reform of the taxation in 2018." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. It's not my first question today. Mr. Alonso has done it, and, hearing my answer, I have hesitated... Who's in charge? Is PP in charge? Does Confebask command? There's been a threat on the desktop in the words of Alonso, I think. Who's in charge? And my question was very clear: Does the President agree with what Mr. Sub-Azu said that public services ought to be a deep form of tax-relation to ensure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, who's in charge? Well, when the proposals we make in the Coordination of The Pigs, are agreed on, we must proceed from this point of view. And you ask me if I agree with the view that the head of the Treasury and Ogas department has of the tax-form, that is to say, with the deep form of tax-retribution which is to be made to support public services. As you have said, I have already mentioned, in the previous question, what our point of view and the position of the President is and what is written in the government program, but I will tell you: We agree with the procedure, the purpose, and the purpose. We agree with the procedure. 2013. He studied the results of the year's reform and shared them in the organ for the Orga Coordination. We agree with the goal, we support public services, and encourage economic growth and employment, which is the end. And we agree also with the purpose: Let us obtain a large consent to carry forward proposals in the principal assemblies of the history of three countries. So I join economics and the editor of the Ogas Department, we join in the government, in three main ideas: study the results together, guarantee public services and economic growth, and accept new measures with a wide consent. You defend one thing, I think that's another thing. I think that's what you meant. Look, we defend employment and competition, as well as the guarantee and quality of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Orin of her 15 egun emandako weretzunaren parekoa eman didazu. Argitasunik ez. Esaten didazun bidearekin ados zaudela, zedearekin ados zaudela, bathe gauza de ereforma fiskala sakonekoa izan behar da, bai ala ez? Ze, hemen, Alonso jaunak eta biok ikuspuntu guztiz ezberdinak ditugula agerikoa da; oso agerikoa da. Hole of the berarekin zuk daukazula adostasun bat, aurrekontu-adostasun bat. Yesterday we saw face B of the PNV-Popular Party budgetary agreement. Is this the face C of the People's Party-PNV budgetary agreement? Because Mr Alonso has told you: you have a clause with you. Although, of course, Mr Alonso in the clause writes what he wants, and then comes here to say that the company tax has to be lowered, because that is what is on the table, that is what Mr Alonso has asked him to do. And that's what the businessmen are asking. Well, not entrepreneurs, but Confebask (that to Caesar what is Caesar's: Confebask): lowering corporate tax and property tax, with the excuse of improving the competitive advantage of companies. We must have a hill, Mr. Lehendakari! That is what these people have, very much so, Mr Lehendakari, because they do not want to make the contribution they have to make to society and they want to receive everything they have to receive from the Basque Government and from the parliaments. And there's Bizkaia's bunker! I don't have to remind you where the deputy general of Bizkaia went and what he raised in England. More or less, that the promised Arcadia was Bizkaia for the new entrepreneurs, those who with the brexit can be seen, in a way..., I don't know how to say it. La verdad, Senor President, noseba al más de sod. You know, it's like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Porque el señor Subnetu lo ha dicho, and I sometimes say things, but sometimes I like to read them. "There's a lot of tension around the garage. I must remember that public workmen have not yet fully returned the extraordinary reward of 2012, that the officials have not been paid for many years, that public investment has been lowered, that they have only climbed the money for innovation this year, and that public services are getting smaller for lack of expense." They might have been my words, but they are not my words, they are the words of Mr. Sub-you. And we've told him in the budgets. We told him... I've been here five years saying, it can't be, it can't be. And you deny the largest, you deny that public services have gone to worse, and Mr Azpiazu has said so. You deny that there is less public investment in the welfare of society, and that is what is happening. And you sign an agreement with those who systematically deny what the way is. And for that they have to make a real tax reform, a thorough tax reform. And not a substantive analysis of tax reform, no: a substantive tax reform. That's what they're asking for, what we're asking for, and what, if you want, we can do between everyone and everyone. But, of course, the People's Party is not going to advance the country, Mr Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pinedo, I repeat what I have also said before: to encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the necessary fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services. And – I have also told Mr Alonso – from as much consensus as possible. And that consensus, once the guideline comes out from the Tax Coordination Body, we will also propose it to EH Bildu. Look, Mrs. Pindo, we agree to the targets we're trying to accomplish. We agree with the need for a thorough study. We agree with our agreement and the stability that we have to create, stability. We agree not to use demagogue. We agree with wisdom, with certainty, and with severity. We've agreed to a long-term view. We agree with what we agreed on our program. The Basque Government as a whole agrees on the benefit of stability and fiscal certainty for both families and businesses, Mrs Pinedo. The Basque Government as a whole agrees that the new tax measures must contribute to progress on two objectives: to sustain public policies, and to maintain the competitiveness of businesses in order to create more and better jobs. And I have also told Mr Alonso: in reference to the IRPF, and in reference to corporate tax, one thing is the nominal rate, and another thing is the effective rate. More employment, more collection... more future sustainability of public services. The Government as a whole agrees not to turn this issue into a demagogic loop. We will work on the Tax Coordination Body, and we will offer all groups the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, the members of the House of Sales Rascal Group, the president of the United States, a chief of the Basque Branch for an independent process." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselors. Mr Lehendakari, I have to confess to you, to begin by confessing to you that you surprised us a little that, in a climate of understanding and agreement, in a climate we can agree that positive, by which your Government reaches important agreements, such as that of the quota, with the Government of Spain, in which the parliamentary group that supports you reaches budgetary agreements with mine, in which the political group of the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid also reaches agreements with the People's Parliamentary Group, your Government decided, at that time and in that climate and in that context, to participate in an independent consultation through the presence of Mrs Tapia. I am not going to ask you the meaning of Mrs Tapia's vote, because the vote is secret and I do not know if you even know it, but we are really interested in knowing whether this presence of a relevant member of your Government in an independent consultation of these characteristics is a change of course, a change of direction, a new position on the part of your Government in dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, you have started your speech with an assertion, an assertion that is absolutely out of place. Look, the institutional position of the Basque Government is expressed in our programme. We are talking about a popular consultation of social initiative, not institutional. And the Basque Government has not decided anything: each person has decided to participate according to his or her own circumstances and context. I respect the organisation of a legal, democratic and respectful act, organized by a legal, democratic and respectful association. We live in a country where political ideas can be defended in freedom, a country where freedom of expression and expression is respected. No one has questioned the goal of the Gure Esku Dago association, nor the organization of the May 7th event. Even the delegate of the Spanish Government has not questioned this. And it draws my attention that you do, Mr. Semper. The act took place with absolute normality, and served for the people who participated to express an opinion. And I respect the decision of those people, including Arantxa Tapia, counsel at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u55	Yes, it is up to us here, Mr Lehendakari, to control the action of your Government, and to understand, or try to understand, why your Government or its advisers make or take certain decisions. And the reasonable thing is that we come here to ask you, as the most responsible of that government. Of course, Mrs Tapia, or any member of her Government (forgive me, Mrs Tapia, for the specific mentions, but it is a necessity), are not advisers on Tuesdays, and on Wednesdays or Sundays they cease to be. There is an institutional representation that you have, which is also indelible, of course, but that neither can one be detached from it according to the circumstances and the moments. And, of course, one who militates in a political party anonymously, or not so anonymously, or the leaders of that political party have an absolute freedom, would lack more, to participate in anything that suits them, as long as it is within the law, but when one has a government responsibility, first, it does not represent his political party, it represents the whole citizenry. And members of his military cabinet in the militant party, but they represent the whole of Basque citizenship. And this is something that we cannot ignore, and that your Government and your advisers cannot ignore. And what we want to share with you today is that from moderation, from the will and the capacity of agreement and understanding is how we will be able to progress and move forward. If we get lost in truths and lose ourselves in other kinds of debates and initiatives that are going to strain (which are going to strain, we are absolutely convinced) politics and coexistence in Basque, that will be a bad business for the Basques as a whole. Because we face immense and very important challenges as a society, challenges to which we are not only called the Basques, but which are called practically, I would dare to say, the West, and I do not pretend to be grandiose. We have great challenges to face, such as globalization and what that poses for our businesses, for our economy and for our families. We have to be able to face very important challenges, such as the ageing of the population or the demographic challenge. We need to be able to address important challenges such as competitiveness, job creation... Let us not get lost in other ways and in other debates and in other stories, let us not do so by your Government, and, above all, let us learn from the mistakes that others have made. Because – once I told you and let me remind you, Mr. lehendakari – there are strategies and there are calculations that always go wrong, when strategies and calculations are drawn on issues that get out of hand. Look at what has happened in Catalonia, look at what has happened to the government in Catalonia, and look at the climate of coexistence and the political climate in Catalonia. What we offer you is collaboration to advance together, to grow together as a society, regardless of the acronyms we want to defend. And I understand the political strategy, and I understand that sometimes they agree with the People's Party and they have to get out of some pressure that another political group can exert on them, and then it is necessary to make such gestures. But these are short-lived gestures and gestures that bring us nothing, and above all, that bring uncertainty. And this society is in need of serenity, agreement and much certainty. Do not contribute from your Government to that uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, look, if we talk about acts involving privately relevant members of parties or governments, or public offices, we could write a book, and posts of your own party, Mr Semper, surely they would have star roles, protagonists. Look, don't overdo it, because it leads to a wrong conclusion. I will tell you everything at once, so that it is not misinterpreted: the presence of a counsellor does not mean that the Government supports the right to decide, in the same way as the absence of the lehendakari does not mean that the lehendakari ceases to do so. The position of the Basque Government is clear, and is reflected in our programme. I have nothing more to add than respect for a social initiative and a personal decision. And I respect the decision of the advisers of both political parties, such as my decisions, who participate in political party acts, as well as other acts of social initiative. And I therefore respect the decision of the advisers who have decided to participate or not to participate, to do so or not to do so. And let me tell you one more thing. You before the public in Spain can speak of an independent referendum, as you say in the justification ("independent referendum"), and in the question you say so, Mr Semper, and no one, no one is going to ask you accounts. On May 7 in Zumaia there was no referendum, not even a pseudo referendum, nor independenceist, Mr Semper. The proof is that neither recourse nor prohibition has been made. Mr Semper, excesses do not lead anywhere in any order of life, including politics, and we would do better to put into practice the respect we say in theory to ideas and freedoms, provided that they are expressed within the framework of basic democratic principles. I invite you to park overactions and work on the self-government paper to try to reach an internal agreement and a pact with the state that meets the aspirations and demands of Basque society. I assure you, Mr Semper, that this is the political objective that moves the Government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the decree which reforms the sector of porter." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u59	Yes, please leave the seat. I'd take the question for granted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know, Mr. Casanova. I don't know, as the president, what I'm going to explain to you about the vote that the Eucpist Party has given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u63	Well, we were asking him if it seemed fair to him the agreement and the decree that the Basque Nationalist Party that supports his government backed yesterday, the decree of the summer. It seems that this question does not suggest anything to you; I will put it to you in another way, the question: Was the support of the Basque Nationalist Party to the decree of the stove of the People's Party, of the double budgetary agreement to which the PNV and the PP have arrived, both in the Chamber of Gasteiz and in the Congress of Spain? This would make it much better to understand the chronology of the events in the context of the debate on the budgets of this community, and why Mr Azpiazu invented himself, took a few deadlines out of the way to close an agreement that concluded just the day before the first time the decree on the estiva in the Government of Madrid had to be voted on. Perhaps the PNV, before staining its hands by supporting the PP in the precariousness, in the privatization of services, in the destruction of employment and in the quality of employment, wanted to have the guarantee – the day before, just – that the PP would approve the budgets of this community. We knew a lot about your double budget agreement with the People's Party. We knew it was a betrayal of Catalonia. The next time you go to Catalonia you will be invited by Mrs. Arrimadas, or Mr. Albiol, certainly not the president of that community, who has called you little less than sold. We knew that agreement whitened corruption, and soon Mr.Ortuzar said that PP corruption was "thing of the past" (and a humorist replied "Yes, last week"). We knew that it was a lifesaver for Rajoy, who makes you complicit in the policies of the People's Party in Madrid, because it gives stability to that government, just as you have publicly boasted, and therefore makes you responsible for the cuts in the social and national sphere that that government perpetuates from now on. And we also knew that it was a citizen fraud, because yesterday this House expressed its rejection of the fundamental aspect that you have agreed with the PP. It was clear in a clear way that a majority of society rejects this budget and rejects the agreements that give rise to it. Now we also know that there were other kinds of agreements. We knew that there were agreements to precarise employment and to precarise the greenhouse sector, and that you were also giving the People's Party a blank check so that it would do things as it wished. Because they gave him support to the summer decree on 16 March, and they have given it back to them now, without including any element of negotiation in that support, as they have done on other issues. It was a blank check, because it was associated with other issues. We knew there's a straight out of Europe that's what's to be done. We know there's a verdict, and we knew there was something we should do to re-establish the program. But this could be done in two ways: on the one hand, by conversation, and on the other, as the Government has decided, by disposition. And you've protected him against the sector workers to make that reform. You gave him a white check. Yesterday a great Spanish federation of right-wings was seen in the Madrid Congress: the People's Party, Citizens, UPN, Foro Asturias, PNV, and the PDeCAT as a guest star, which are at least in an independence process. And by this agreement he turned his back on the labourers' rights. We believe that in the harbors, first of all, the rights of workers must be secured. On the other hand, it is necessary to demand the authority of ports, and, if we obtain the right of hands, we ought to demand a new management of them, not to repeat the degrees of oppression and exploitation herein other places. I'm here managing and managing the rights of workers. You have opted for the pure and harsh liberalization that the right-wings like so much. You have given him a blank check, within this turn to the right that the PNV is giving, a blank check to the People's Party to liberalize in its own way, to precarious. Now the workers only have the struggle to defend their working conditions, and in that struggle, of course, they will have at their side as always EH Bildu, and in front, as almost always, of the PNV alongside the employer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, we knew, we knew, we knew... Well, we know that to solve your internal problems, Mr. Casanova, you have the usual strategy. Others also have the same strategy lately, but you particularly, always, have the strategy – as it is also reflected today in an interview by a representative of yours at the Congress of Deputies – of dialogue yes, but negotiating no, it is not going to be by dialogue, if we have to reach a negotiation, we miss our hands. No, let the Basque Nationalist Party do that, so that it saves us the issues. Come on, keep coming to where the Basque Government, where the Basque Nationalist Party, has made us do to resolve their ballots with whom you denounce that we are negotiating. And in the first place, Casanova, our jurisdiction of two ports is not yet ours, but we will do everything we can to get the transfer, as is established in the State. We've even made a proclamation this week. You don't have anything to do with it. The main goal of my fun is to work, even in the harbors of Bilbo and Pasadena. In this matter, we have secured the rights of workers, and we encourage them to make an agreement in the collective negotiation field. The object which we have defied has been to inflict the slightest injury to the interests of the workers in application to the tribunal of the European Union. Four weeks ago, here, and not according to the talks of budgets, four weeks ago, I was asked a question, and we proposed: In the case of subordinate employments, the establishment of compensations, and the increase of assistance in prevention. You don't have anything to do with it, just the headline, the motto, the demagogue. Even after the Decree accepted, all these proposals may be negotiated and compromised between the union and the Spanish administration of the union in the union of the union representatives, the sector and the Spanish administration. Mr Casanova, a month ago I responded to this same question in this House by calling on the public and private actors involved to maintain dialogue and negotiation. The adoption of the decree yesterday seeks to prevent the European fine, but it does not prevent the trade union representatives, the employers of the sector and the Spanish administration from continuing to negotiate. They are competent; they can and must do so to ensure that employment, aid and improvements are maintained in the sector. I reiterate our position: support for the labour rights of summer workers, encouraging agreements in collective bargaining, application of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the least harmful way to the interests of workers. We have proposed three measures aimed at promoting job stability, applying compensation in non-subrogated jobs and extending pre-retirement aid. You're nothing. Zero. To help the future competition in the sector is our purpose and the purpose of the law to improve the competitive competition of the logistic and industrial sector in ports. The goal is to guarantee the difference in order to get a job; our aim has been exact: the conditions of work for the workers have been preferred. We will continue to demand the transfer of ports as well, as we did this week with the President of the Valencian Community, something you have not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "whether the members of María del lópez de Ocariz lópez, Munin of the Popula team were made for the development of economics and the production of the corresponding conditions necessary for the payment of a union of agriculture." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Madam Councilwoman, I ask you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party for the advance of payments from the common agricultural policy. You know, Commissioner, that in recent years the European Union, which you say is inflexible, has been authorizing Member States to pay up to 70% in direct payments and up to 85% in rural development. You have never authorized these advances; moreover, you have refused to make the arrangements either in 2016 or 2015 (when not only did you not advance the payments, but you delayed them more than six months, with the consequent damage to the primary sector), nor in 2014, nor in 2013. Commissioner, is it the government's will to speed up the procedures to make the advance payment of CAP aid in 2017 effective?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u69	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, we have also talked about this subject on other occasions, and it is the political will of this government to do so, and also a determined commitment to give the administrative structure of the management of the CAP the greatest possible efficiency. Not only in this management, but also globally, as far as agriculture is concerned. With regard to the processing of these aids, it is true that in the 2015-2020 programming period we have tried to improve the efficiency of the different administrative levels, which is close to the sector, but in certain circumstances some management difficulties as well, and – you will also remember that I commented on it last year – we have decided to take on the challenge of having a computer structure of our own, which takes on the whole organisation of both outside and government parliaments, and to respond more effectively to the needs of the sector. All this has, it is true, led to some delay, some problems, difficulties in implementing this computer tool in an integrated, coordinated and joint way, and in the first of the years, in the year 2015, to 31 December, some EUR 20 million had been paid, that is to say 44 % of the total to be paid; in 2016 it has been improved and we have managed to reach 71 % of the total, but addressing the needs of the sector, as you rightly say, the forecast of the payments to be made in the 2017 campaign and the flexibility of the European Union in certain aspects, in this sense on 13 January 2017, we unanimously approved, in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Policy, the necessary procedures with that tool, and administratively, to make the payment of these advances in this 2017. We will therefore improve both the payments over the year and those advances, which had been impossible to make in past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u71	Madam Counsellor, I am very pleased that, once and for all, we are faced with such important, necessary advance payments. Because, look, only in Álava do they represent the result of multiplying two thousand farms, two thousand farmers, who charge an average annual CAP income of 24,000 or 25,000 euros; that a 70% advance represents 17,000 euros per farm, that if we multiply it are 34 million euros, which is not the same thing as paying them in October as paying them in December. Because with that money they can face the new exercise, they can face planting, buying materials, and farmers buying feed, etc., etc., that if they have to go to the bank it costs them an important interest. Therefore, this is not free. Because, of course, Madam Counsellor, when you were asking for a more flexible CAP the other day, a more subsidiary CAP..., I believe that what you were doing did not correspond to this request that you were doing, because, as I say, what you have done so far has caused significant damage to the primary sector. And, as I said, the management of aid must be agile and efficient, and it must ensure that our primary sector plays on the same terms as the rest of the primary sector in Spain and Europe. Because for a few years we've been the only ones who haven't paid the advance. And I heard the Álava Agriculture Congressman say it was very expensive to do this. It will be very expensive for everyone, but here it has been done in 2010, in 2011 and 2012, and you arrived and it was a four-year break. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, when I was reading your statements the other day, which said that I was calling for a more subsidiary and flexible CAP, which adapts to the characteristics of each territory, with a more durable scheme and not subject to permanent reforms, I was wondering: does it ask for flexibility, and offers rigidity, offers structures that do not move? I didn't understand. To then ask for a common agricultural policy of its own. Hey, are you going to do it with all the common agrarian policy? It's common with who, with yourself? The statements you made were very rare, and they assumed or seemed to assume that you did not really have the very clear ideas in agrarian policy. And I am very glad that these advances are going to be made, but be aware that we have to send messages that are more realistic. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. We agree with you about advances, but it was crucial for us to have a common tool for all administrations. And when the outlaw Member referred to the costly, he did not refer to the costly economically, but to the costly in the form of organization. We have completed the process and adopted the decision. Therefore, this year you will be able to use that advance tool, which last year was 70% because it was an exceptional year, you know it too, and somehow 70% has been allowed when it is usually around 50%. Whatever the European Union decrees, it may apply. However, you took the opportunity to talk about the Community's agricultural policy and my statements last Monday. When we refer to a subsidiary and flexible policy we are referring to having the flexibility to adapt to the land and to an agricultural policy that we can do according to the common parameters but adapted to the local one. And you know perfectly well that you were referring to that. And he was referring to three aspects. One, of course, which has a permanent character. Secondly, that you take account of family farms on industrial farms, and you know perfectly well, and you will also agree that this is the case, that we should be considered, because of the characteristics of our land, that there is a mountain farming to which we must pay specific attention. And, above all, that priority be given to all those who live primarily from their agricultural exploitation, and not so much to those others who have inactive agricultural exploitation and who receive resources without any need. That's what we were referring to, and you'll probably agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, "Jule Bollain Urbieta together of the Society of Podemos to the Chief of Empeducus and Polytic Society, the chief physician of the Police and Societys on the remarks made on the Week of the Youngs of Europe." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u75	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers. On May 1st, Councilwoman Artolazabal said, at an event on European Youth Week – and I will quote it textually –: "We must support the development of our youth and that our young people work in Europe with all the potential of their abilities. This baggage will bring you a lot when you return to your home cities, enriching each country and, with it, the whole European Union." A phrase to frame. But there is a small but very important nuance which at times seems to be forgotten by you, Madam Counsellor, and that is that sometimes it does not seem to differentiate very well between going out to work in Europe by will or obligation. That is why the question is going to be very direct: do you consider, Mrs Artolazabal, that the situation of young Basque women and women in Euskadi is the best, and that they see the fact of working in Europe as an opportunity, or as an obligation due to the lack of opportunities in our autonomous community?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u77	Ma'am, chief of departments, members of Parliament, good morning. I am very clear, Mr Bollain: the possibility of Basque youth working in Europe is an opportunity for their development as a person, an opportunity to be able to study and learn in other countries, an opportunity to be able to work in business cultures different from our own, an opportunity to be able to gain work experience in leading companies and leaders of the different sectors established in other countries. It is important that young people move around to expand experiences and seek opportunities. That rich luggage they're going to acquire will enrich our country, and I'm still keeping it. There are many young Basques who go outside, as do young Scots who go to Paris, Germans who go to Milan, Dutch who go to Berlin, among many others. And there are also young Alsatians, those of Munich, those of Stockholm, those of Wales who come to Euskadi. That we don't just go out the Basques, that a lot of people come out to learn from us, and that's good! Today, with estimates from Erasmus and Eurostat, in 2014 almost one and a half million higher education students studying in the Member States of the Union came from other countries. It is logical that some of these young Basques have sought employment opportunities beyond our borders, and our responsibility as a government, together with Basque society and businesses, is to try to ensure that they always have a benchmark in Euskadi to develop their lives. This is achieved with attractive training systems, the presence of advanced companies and quality job offers. In recent years, there has been a positive trend towards youth unemployment and job recovery, although we have not yet achieved pre-crisis values. As we have repeated on several occasions both Lehendakari and I, the employment of our young people, with quality and within our companies, is one of the main objectives of this Government, and for that we will continue to work. Thus, opportunities to go abroad are always welcome for our young people and for our society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u79	Mrs Artolazabal, what is not logical is that our young people are forced to march to seek opportunities outside our autonomous community. I think it is undeniable that a very high percentage of our young people's outings to work in Europe are due to the lack and scarcity of opportunities in our people, with youth unemployment close to 20%. And we cannot tolerate these outings being out of obligation and not out of self-will. It is true that unemployment has fallen a little, but what about the rate of activity, counselor? As you will well know, the youth employment rate has gradually fallen in recent years, from 59.2% in 2006 to 48.4% in 2017. In ten years, the youth employment rate has fallen by no more than 20%. That's what's not logical! And to a good understanding, counselor, few words are enough. The "Necessary Youth" report amounts to €4,410 million in losses that in the next ten years would mean that the same rate of emigration by thousands of young people would continue, resulting simply from adding to the government's spending on education and reducing the lack of tax collection that exists when our young people work in other territories. No more, no less: EUR 4,410 million. You said, Madam Counsellor, that the baggage of working in Europe will bring much to young people when they return to their towns of origin. And it's true, if it wasn't because, unfortunately, they can't come back. They cannot return, because they have no way of building a future in Euskadi. And because of the few opportunities we find young people like me in Euskadi many young people have to leave. And I remarque: we have to leave, I speak first person. Mrs Artolazabal, I am a lucky man today, no doubt, but my friends and friends have had to leave, and if you ask them why some will tell you that of their own free will, but engineers scrubbing dishes in Berlin are kicking. To what extent is this will? We cannot allow a moment more than what we invest in education for the future of our people, so that our young people can work for a future, so that our young people can live in dignity..., we cannot allow the most prepared generation in our history to be Mrs Merkel's cheap workforce.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u81	Andrea president. You say that they are forced to leave and that they cannot return, those are your statements. I will try to provide you with objective data, obtained in addition to the Basque Youth Observatory, which show that reality is not as black and pessimistic as the one you want to move. Only 7.9% of the youth surveyed, between the ages of eighteen and thirty-four, believed that in the future they would be forced to emigrate abroad to work. That percentage has been reduced in recent years, as a result of the decline in the unemployment rate we are experiencing and the management of this Government. In addition, the return rate in 2014 was 43%, and is higher than that recorded in 2011 and 2013. Therefore, the rate of return of young Basques leaving abroad is increasing, and they are returning. Whether our young people go abroad to gain work experience or learn and expand language skills and create contacts is good, and good for both personal and professional development and for this country. That experience is good, and especially when it comes to returning home, to our businesses and to our society. That return of young people and their talent is what enriches this country, and I am convinced that no one here is opposed to international scholarships of an educational nature. These are recognized policies that offer a great opportunity to learn from different cultures and business practices. And I want to point out that the majority of young people who have had work experience abroad have higher education, speak English and are currently working, and generate quality jobs. Not long ago, during the days we were celebrating at a Basque university, the students themselves commented on the opportunities they saw in spending a season away. I insist, we cannot stigmatize international mobility. Administrative records indicate that in recent years there has been a small decrease in the number of young people who have left and those who have had to return...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Your time is up. The 12th point in the theme list: "To question, Julein Bollain Urbieta together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Ogas and Economic department, the project of the tax of the chief tax of the tax-collectors and Treasury." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u83	Thanks again. Well, Mr Azpiazu, as you well know, as economic data improves, corporate tax collection remains in free fall. We have been able to read and hear you repeatedly about the need to update corporate tax, in your own words, "in order to find a more modern, fair and equitable tax", as many European countries have. Totally agree. And from Elkarrekin We can also make it clear which way, and it is necessary to increase the tax burden on corporate tax. That is why the question, and you know that I am not going about it, is concrete and direct, Mr Azpiazu: will the Basque Government, and in particular you, stand up to the Tax Coordination Authority to increase the tax burden on corporation tax, contrary to what Mr Rementaria has recently signed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u85	Mr. Bollain, very brief. Both because of the way in which your question is justified and because of the way in which it has been formulated today, it is clear that you are well aware of what this adviser and this Government have been saying in relation to the Basque tax model. A tax system, as it says, modern, fair and equitable, allowing for the development of public policies of a social and economic recovery and job creation at all institutional levels. That being the case, I am not going to repeat it or repeat myself in relation to corporate tax or any specific tax. It is timeless to venture into contradictions, as I believe you intend today. Thus I shall not repeat, nor repeat anything more of the tax upon societates, nor exactly of any other tribute. I believe that with regard to supposed positions found, as has also been the atmosphere that has been breathed this morning in some other interventions, we would be making a mistake, since at this time, as the Lehendakari has also said, we are addressing a joint reflection on the reform that was raised in 2013. To look at opposite opinions of utility, at the moment when we are present, is a boldness and a prejudice in your eyes. The Government and the three outlaws are carrying out this assessment from the areas of competence of each institution, as it cannot be otherwise. We say this in our government program, the lehendakari has said, and I read it literally: "We will encourage the tax coordination body to update the precise fiscal regulations." And this is not incompatible with the support of our companies and the promotion of economic activity. Let us not be fooled, I believe that support for the real economy is fundamental. Basque companies and entrepreneurs know that they have counted, count and will count on the support of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u87	Mr Azpiazu, you say it is not going to happen again, but this is a monitoring session for the government, and I have asked you a clear question: whether you will defend yourself before the Tax Coordination Body... , to see if you will defend the rise in corporate tax pressure. The Lehendakari also talks about updating today, but when he talks about Mr Alonso he talks about updating, and when he talks about Mrs Pinedo he talks about a profound tax reform. Today you know that the collection is unfair and that we have room to climb; eight days ago exactly you answered this very same to a few words from Cebek. The fact is that in 2016, of what is provided by direct taxes, 35,5 % of the total collection is paid by labour income; however, only 11 % is paid by capital income and profits. Corporate tax collection accounts for 1.5% of GDP, and is Europe's next lowest collection, along with Lithuania and Estonia. Data we consider serious, and we believe that only with a fair collection of the most powerful would it be feasible to reverse the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable classes. Mr Rementeria said in London that certain adjustments in corporate tax were needed to make it more attractive and thus more competitive. A few adjustments, more attractive, more competitive... in short, to lighten the employer's bill, as the employer said, at the expense of the rest. It is just the opposite of what you said and highlighted on 8 February, when you said that the Basque administrations must put all the instruments we have in our hands in the area of taxation in order to increase the collection, and that, given that the tax burden on corporate tax in Euskadi – you said – is not greater than in Spain and is smaller than in Europe, you might think that there is a way to do something there. This Basque Parliament has the instruments to correct this injustice, and the instrument is not precisely to go and ask Mr Rementeria, but to reside in this House. So, what are your words, posture, or reality? If you go posture we will denounce you whenever it is necessary; if not, you will have us at your side to walk and get a rise in corporation tax. That is why I put the question to you again, in a different way: You, Mr Azpiazu, do you agree with Elkarrekin Can we say that there is room, as you have stated more than once, and that it is social justice to raise the fiscal pressure exerted by corporation tax? Or, on the contrary, as Mr Alonso said today, in the budgetary pact, did the Basque Government undertake not to raise taxes? Or, otherwise, are you going to maintain the position of increasing tax pressure by reinforcing corporate tax collection to reverse the unfair upward collectivity trend, or, on the contrary, will you yield to the pressures of those in the PNV who make spokespersons of the employers' lobby, Cebek and Confebask, such as Mr. Rementeria?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u89	Mr. Bollain, I no longer have a position to stand in. I think I have a position of responsibility, which is what I am going to exercise, of course. And I don't think it's a question of talking about rising or lowering the tax burden either. The fiscal pressure will be what it has to be to meet the objectives we want. We share in this respect the objectives that any adjustment or improvement of our tax system must pursue, and that is also reflected in our government program. I complete the sentence that I have read in part before, and it says: "We will encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the precise fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services." We share that this must be done with the greatest possible degree of institutional consensus within the Tax Coordination Body, as the lehendakari has perfectly said this morning, and we share that any change must also be made in a harmonised manner. As you will understand, it is not possible to make a tax reform, a tax change or whatever it is called, behind the backs of the outside institutions, which are competent and which are ultimately the ones who have to take the measures to the general boards, which must be approved with the support of the juntas. I think these are the rules of the game, and we can't skip the rules of the game. We will, of course, bring our proposals to the Tax Coordination Body as a Government; that is our responsibility. Therefore, I insist, we share the objectives, we share the need to achieve them from the institutional and political consensus, and we share that it is also done harmoniously throughout the country and is in the interests of inter-institutional financial sufficiency, improving the Basque welfare system, reactivating the economy and creating employment. What else do you want, Mr. Bollain?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interadectition, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education in order to recover the negotiating character of the Board of Education." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u91	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief physician, good day. I'll go straight to the point tonight, without literature. I do not know how much you perceive of the gravity of the situation, in what state we are in, and how far anger has come into the community of education. What's happening isn't unusual, and when we get to the point where we're here, it shows what's the size of the gravity of the situation. On March 22 we had a strike, and this week we've had another strike, and next Tuesday we'll have another strike. In addition to this, tomorrow (a Saturday), in the capitals of the EAE, we shall have mutations, and because of the recruits you impose, the schools are planning, they're mobilizing. So, what in the meantime? In the meantime, you're acting like a tunaton. The Fronton Fontis is rincilissa, I know you're looking like a ruckus you know, and the Board of Education gives you the frontis on the front. All the proclamations from the institution of education are returned and bounced. What we're seeing is that you're keeping the same attitude and attitude as before, that there's no change either in the attitude or behaviour. So you maintain incommunication and educational world is incommunicable, no conversations, no negotiations. It's an example of that, due to the strike on the 16th of May, that the Board of Education has made an effort yourself to stop this strike. But was it the consequence? The consequence is that Colomiers has also been added to the strike. Here we see how EAJ understands the dialogue as a monologue-that is to say, he understands the dialogue as a monologue, as an explanation of negotiation. Deal, how do you understand? To do as the rest said, and to submit to the words of EAJ. We thought it was really painful, from the strike on March 22, to scare your parents from what you've been doing, or, really, it seemed serious to us that we're being treated by the spokesman of education without any respect, and, after all, what you've been asking for is realism when you don't want to see the reality. You wanted to imagine, by neglect, that they were in Madrid, when you've got all your cares and especially your cares when you've got them. So what you've done so far is run away and wash your hands. But we want to emphasise one thing. Don't get mixed up with the enemy. The union of education is not hostile, we are not enemies. The educational unit, like you, wants to build a high-quality education system, and we're all on the same boat. You, the education unit, we're all on the same boat, and we'd have to find a way to go together to continue building the high-quality education system we want. What do they plan? What they're doing is very simple. It's the one that's been reduced here since 2010. That's just what they plan on. All that's lost is remaking again. Then we have to realize that only teachers of education do not complete it. There are different operators in the educational community: teachers, trainers, washing machines, cooks, baby school members... So, at the time of reconnaissance, Mrs. Uriart, we need a complete planning. And in this educational doctrine which you proclaim so much to attain the law, we need a general point of view. This general view requires an integral planning, because if not, how will it be performed and made so many laws of agreement or decree? It's impossible. That's the way it's impossible. He requires a job, demands a plan, demands a general view. He asks to tell it to everyone, and we don't see it until now. If you continue to regard everything as an assault, you take everybody as an enemy, and it's bad. We're not going anywhere. But I'd like to think you've got a plan. That's what Mrs. Mountains says, you're the ones who plan this country. And if you don't like to discuss our proposals, the plan that he brought. We'll discuss it. We'll discuss it. We'll open the interview, but bring it, bring it... Besides, the study is ending, not only political learning, but even learning is ending. We're in the middle of a new year's training, a nice moment too (san Joan's fire knocks on the door), a good time to throw the old clothes into the fire, to put on the new clothes, with a new disposition, to plan the next year in another way and start work. So straight up, Mrs. Uriart, what steps will the Board of Education take to recover the negotiational nature of the table in education? For it is essential that this negotiating nature should be restored as the first step, if we really want to go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u93	The head of the legislative table, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, is a good day. Mrs. Uber, this is really worth the serious approach of the matter, based on the exposition of what is actually happening (i.e. in fact) and the facts that are used, and the opinions that are giving it, do not reflect that reality. I'll start with this: To clear that the meeting mentioned in your interpelation script is a sectorial table. May 4th, and as such, the natural field of relating to social agents, a field of sharing, discussing, and bargaining under the collective conditions of the civilists. It must be observed that it is the greatest collective among the professors of education which constitute the public profession: Master 25.001, teacher, but he's not the only one. As I have said in 2010, this sactorial table receives a negotiation about a collective agreement regulated by decree conditions. This is important, as you know, because there are other collectives with different negotiations and negotiations: Like a personal education, a collective kitchen and cleanup, and religious as well. Of course, we haven't forgotten the collective staff of Child School Partners. As you know, he's an organization of his own legal personality. So let's be rigorous about what we're dealing with. It can hardly be said that the department intended with this meeting to avoid the strikes called by the unions, when the sectoral table represents one of the collectives, and not all the calls for mobilization by the unions. But yes, Mrs Ubera, that table was announced, and it was made before there was any call for a strike. Yes, I repeat: before this month's strikes were called. They were specifically announced on 5 April, while their strike statement is dated 12 April. What's more, do you know the reason for the call? The sectoral table is convened by the firm will of the department to share and negotiate with the unions aspects of great relevance to our faculty. At the previous sectoral table, held in January, it was pointed out that another would soon be held to which the Administration would come with data and proposals. And it is that, Mrs Ubera, since the beginning of the current legislature the unions have been called to various meetings: teaching officials, two planning committees (14 February and 15 March this year) and three sectoral tables (23 December last year, 25 January and 4 May); teaching and educational workers, two equal tables (24 November 2016 and 27 February this year); teaching workers of Religion, a negotiating table (10 February 2017); cleaning and cooking workers, two equal tables (24 November last year and 30 March this year). A total of ten commissions and negotiating tables, in addition to several territorial bureaux, since the beginning of the legislature. Inkomunikazioa, diozu? Do you think there is no willingness on the part of this administration to negotiate? Sadly, some of the trade union agents have not attended some of these meetings. Accordingly, Mme. Ubera, returning to the meeting of May 4th, which you have mentioned, of course it was not successful in avoiding the strikes, since this was not her object, it was not her intention, and it was not, of course, to discuss the concessions of all the collective systems of education. Besides, I must remark that the subject of this negotiation was of importance. Besides accepting the anecdotes of the tables of December and January, the following topics were treated: professors, provisionalness, EPEaks for the whole legislation, the planning and information of the negotiation of a new doctrine. A list of important points to our teachers, I think. In short, I will state that the unions have given the analysis of their objective data. These are technically cultivated data, and in this field the provisionality, the mediation, the existence of the workers is 26.9% of the work. At this point, I don't want to go into a war of how much, but at the table the contributions are made of technical administration, and of course must be explained. What I have to explain is this: that the rate of intermediateness, as it has been made from some area, cannot be added to the percentage of the personal character which stands for other persons by chance, by reason of illness or other labors, and so on. As I was pointing out, let's be rigorous with the information. At this table, trade unions were also first-hand announced the commitment to convene positions for OPE during the current parliamentary term, with a minimum number of 3,000 seats. Doesn't that seem important to us? Maybe for some it may not be enough, but isn't it important? In any case, it will be necessary to see whether legality allows further progress, and we will do so if possible. We have always said so, and that is that we will call as many places as necessary, provided that there is legal certainty for this. A commitment was also made to explore the new avenues under way, such as the agreement between the ministry and the trade unions. It is obvious that I am only providing some of the data that was transferred to that meeting, but it is also clear that other issues were discussed and discussed, although perhaps no agreement was reached. And the meeting lasted more than two hours. Mrs. Ubera, I insist, do you think there was no negotiating will? I believe that the basis of all negotiations is that, the will. Indeed, in order to negotiate, one must be prepared to recognize some issues. We must all recognize the limits of negotiation, the principle of reality, and it is that we cannot negotiate what is not in one's hands. One cannot negotiate except with truth and reality. Our truth and our reality, that of our negotiating tables, abides by a premise, and it is that we do not deceive anyone. Do not deceive the people who work with us, our teacher, the main driver of change and the success of our educational system. We cannot obviate the existence of legal limits, such as the replacement rate, just as we cannot obviate the iron defense that this Government has carried out from our powers, both educational and organizational, before the State Administration and before the courts. We cannot ignore the appeal in defence of our ratios, our teaching hours, our substitutions, or, even more importantly, the appeal of unconstitutionality brought by this Government against the Lomce. And Mrs. Ubera asks what steps do I have to take to get the negotiationary nature of the table in education sector? The answer is that it is not a matter of recovery, but only the will of all parties, not only of the Administration, that is, of the real and honest will. On the other hand, Mrs. Ubera mentions in her interpelation, Lomc and Heziber's examination set up, and I shall take advantage of this part in the manner in which the subject of theft is used in some respects, the subject of Lomce, in order to judge the want of negotiation. To tell you the truth, I think it's very strange to think of a negotiation table, such as a sactorial, or any other person who has been called to study the conditions of personal life, to determine the politics of education. We shall agree, Madam Ubera, that this is out of this sphere of decision, but it is true that it is the subject of the whole community of education, and of this government and of this legislature, and therefore we have explained several times our attitude to Lomce; our round negative. And not only did we explain it, but we did it in the only way that can be done: after so many attempts, we have opposed the constitutionality of the rule, by introducing a resource against Lomce and its development, and defending the province of our jurisdiction, as it is legitimate to us. But, further, we have agreed to our own pedagogical model; we have opposed it with the institution of education; we have continued to advance, because our disciples are in the midst of the system, and we must guarantee and improve their education. And when we talk about improving our own education system, one of the main keys to this process is evaluation, and that is why we have to design our own evaluation system. And we are working on it, and the first thing to do that is to have the cooperation of all the agents. Although it is really difficult when misinformed, manipulated and confused the educational community through calls to intrusion. I don't think this is the way to negotiate. Finally, I would like to stress that the situation we are living in education does not favour anyone, and hinders the teaching of our pupil, the life of our families. Indeed, I believe that the education of our children deserves us to continue to sit and speak, to approach positions, to explain ourselves and, if possible, to understand ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u95	I don't understand how you persist in talking about realism and accusing the manipulative to others when you're the biggest manipulators and you don't want to see the reality. Look, manipulation is to say you don't apply to Lomce and accept a law that recognizes Lomce's frame. It's manipulation to say that you don't apply rebalds and then apply them to me by novels. It's a manipulation to say you don't apply Lomce and then agree with the funds to apply Lomce in the deck. That's manipulation, Mrs. Uriart. And here it is to get it back. It's self-recovering, because there's no dialogue. There are no negotiations. It's a monologue for you. It's a negotiation to you that the rest of us will submit to EAJ. Not really. Not really. And I don't doubt it here, I don't doubt it, and I'll never doubt you called a table to stop a strike. That's what I'd do, too... I'd do that, too, but here's history that we have to call tables, especially for interviews and negotiation to start. That's what we have to do. Because otherwise you'll explain to me, if there's a negotiation and there's a dialogue, how it's possible, how it's possible, how it's possible, how it's possible, how it's possible to get it, and how it's possible to add another union to mutations. And when will you understand? When are you going to understand that teachers, people, don't change their minds by caprice? Workers don't go to a strike. To reach this point, it must be a serious situation. That's right. All you have to do is see what's going on. And you'll tell me what you don't agree with. Don't you agree to enlarge the plane? Don't you agree with the return from 2010 to the ratings, increasing the investment? Don't you agree to turn this extreme provisionality that we have? And here you mention the law. You mention the law. Montoro says he's in Spain... We like to look south and compare with the Spaniards, with the temporary in Spain at 25 percent. Here, among the teachers, it's 38 percent. It's 38% and Montora's gonna take the measurements, but this is not Madrid's ability to face the temporary. The right hand is yours, and you can do it. They are making other communities, as in Galicia, where they have no other conquests than those of our own. Start the car. You don't need Madrid for that. You don't need Madrid. You don't need Madrid to reduce the rations. No. You don't even need Madrid to replace them. No. You guys need Madrid for everything? We don't know how to convince him anymore. We don't know how to speak, OK, maybe you see a reality, we see another. Okay. Let's put both realities on the table and go and find a medium. I don't know how to convince you, what strategy to use to convince you, that we really want to talk, that we all have to agree. Maybe we should use Rajoy's strategy? But we don't like the tactics of the maltratist. Because we don't know what strategy. It seems like the Spanish strategy works for you to negotiate, that all the others don't work, that you only negotiate with PP. Look at this town a little bit. Look at me! Do you have a student on the axis? Do you care about families? And I don't want to doubt that. I don't want to doubt it. I really want to think that family, students, this country, education, and future care for you. Well, honestly, just react. Reactivate. How far are we going to go? How far are we going to go? We're putting proposals on the table all the time. It's all not, no, no, no. That's right, then you plan a law. Who will you agree to the law? What if you don't bring in integration? And that requires effort, generosity, waist. A warrior must be. Talking. You can talk to some people. You've got war. Try some others too. I don't know, I've told you a lot of measurements before. You'll tell me what size you don't agree with. And then here, I think, as you said, and I agree that we must be strict, and must be serious, as we ought to call things. What I wanted to ask you today is to make some effort, to do it generously, to be serious, and to give him his character as a teacher at the high school. And the respect necessary for educational immunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u97	What you ask of me, I also ask of you, and what he will not hear, nothing is to be done. Anyway, I'm going to take advantage of this second part to remember a series of data of interest. In my opinion, society is being misinformed in some respects, and I would like to assume that not intentionally. I will begin by detailing the follow-up data on the strike, as an example, which have been controversial this week. And I will do so with the official data collected by the educational institutions themselves and coordinated by the inspection service. Data that are then managed in the payroll service; read absolutely objective and technical data. Well, the incidence of the May 16 strike is, as far as the Education Administration is concerned, 9,762 teachers out of a total of 23,497 teachers. This accounts for 41.55% of the faculty. If we also include Special Education staff and the kitchen and cleaning community, that 41.55 will increase to 41.89 per cent. This is the final figure of the strike, after having analyzed one hundred percent of the educational institutions. This data will be published on the department's website. The question is: How is it possible for figures that almost double this percentage when the scrupulous, technical and timely analysis of the data reflects another reality? Another fact that is also being discussed is that of interinity, which, as I have said, amounts to 26.9% in the teachers' group, according to the data of our technicians. How is it possible that percentages that exceed the interim calculation in ten points are barred? Aren't the substitutions calculated as such? To say something! We'll go on with the data. Some say that there can be 6, or 9,000 squares that can be made out in the working courts, and it is a ridiculous thing to do, by the appeal of the government to work every year during the law, at least for the third000 square. Are they to be laughed at as much as to have a quality employment and influence on the quality of our education system? And, of course, we shall not mention that in saying the 3000 Square we put it as minimum number. This number can be exceeded by two premises: the need and legal security of the place. And that's how we'll do it. We will increase the number of squares when we are sure of it; for we do not play with facts, we do not play with people. And yet we are ready to negotiate. And all this is on the table, and they know it. I'm still with data, with realities. How is it possible, Mrs. Ubera, to identify Lomce with Heziberri? How is it possible that he's asking us to repeal the Lomce? Do you think that the Basque Government, this Parliament, can repeal the Lomce? Obviously not. We'd love to, but it's not in our hands. Let us not confuse society. You know very well that Lomce and Hexion aren't the same, but you use it in a very good way to make a confession, to mix society, to resign the educational unit. It really attracts my attention: on the one hand, you seek confession, and on the other you offer the privilege of coming to the treaty. You've got a terrible lack of coherence. Still, we're still willing to negotiate. More reality. According to the 2013-2015 report of the School Council, the following data are noteworthy. Euskadi maintains absolute student funding rates higher than most European countries: they are invested per student EUR 9,868, when the European average is EUR 9,353. And these distances are even greater with the rest of the autonomous communities, according to 2013 data from the State School Council report. We should also remember that our scholarship system has been resorted to by the Spanish Ministry of Education, for excessive amounts. With regard to classroom ratios, it should be noted that Euskadi is the autonomous community with the lowest ratio of pupils per classroom and the lowest ratio of pupils per teacher. We are convinced and believe that it is necessary to negotiate and agree. We believe that our education system is a matter of care, and our students have the right to go to class to continue their work. We believe that there is no reason for justifying the system of education; there is no reason why the students should not be allowed to go to school. We are allowed to join the unions with the unions, with specific and real proposals, but with helpful and possible proposals. We will continue to defend negotiations within the principle of reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Interlation by Juan Luis Urania Serrana, members of the Podemus to the head physician of the Medical Department, a plan for developing Pediatry in the medical centres of the Osage." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u99	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, parliamentary colleagues, councillors, counselors, lawyers, egun on guztioi. Sometimes in health policies not addressing problems at the time makes simple problems become complex. It is the problem that I am going to address today, which is related to the lack of pediatricians in the health centers, clinics and outpatient clinics of the Osakidetza service network. It is a problem with more than ten years of travel, which is neither solved nor, as far as we know, has solutions right now. There are over a hundred pediatricians who are currently occupied by family doctors. It's not a new topic, it's a recurring theme year after year. I've had a glimpse, so they won't tell us later, "These Can Come New and They Don't Know." How we won't know if we're on the street! Parliamentarian Rebeka Ubera, parliamentarian Laura Garrido, ex-parliamentarian Blanca Roncal of the PSOE, ex-parliamentarian Gorka Maneiro, ex-parliamentarian Nerea Antia of the PNV (when faced with Councillor Rafa Bengoa), have raised one way or another over the last few years the same problem: pediatric problems or staffing dimension problems in health centres, in the clinics and outpatient clinics of Osakidetza. There has been no answer. Well, yes, there has been an answer: an external consultancy was hired in 2010 (this hiring of external consultants to solve problems is a small mess); in 2011 we were promised the submission of proposals. Until today. I understand that the external consultancy will have returned the money paid to him from the Department of Health. Today we have the problem of Araba, of the Councils of Araba, of councillors of the municipalities of Araba, of the unions of Araba (of Gasteiz, of the Alavesa Plain...); before it was Lekeitio, Zornotza, Zumaia, Rontegi... They are platforms of mothers, citizens, thousands and thousands of firms requesting pediatricians in health centres or emergency services. We have two women parliamentarians who will be giving birth soon! I had this done a couple of months ago, but I have to correct it, because the counselor gave me some information I didn't have. I was with a group of pediatricians from Barrualde and I was told that in Lekeitio, for example, a girl or a child with a serious health problem had to go to emergency rooms at the hospital of Cruces or the hospital of Mendaro, more than an hour on the way, and already the counselor has corrected me and told me that there are pediatric emergencies twenty-four hours in the center of Gernika. In Elkarrekin We can in health policies are not those who think the worse: the better, the better. Therefore, it seems that, with pediatric emergencies twenty-four hours in the center of Gernika, the problem that the pediatricians of Barrualde have told me, of going to Cruces or Mendaro for a serious emergency problem, since the retirement of the pediatrician of Lekeitio, seems to have to be changed. Well, I don't want to think, for example, what's going to happen this summer in Zumaia, in Ispaster, in Ea, in Lekeitio... You know, for example, that Lekeitio, with 9,000 inhabitants, places himself in 33,000 inhabitants, and of what is 27% older than sixty-five years of normal census throughout the year, the pyramid of population is reversed. Usually Osakidetza has always strengthened Lekeitio's pediatrics and family medicine. There are no pediatricians this year! Let us hope that the 24 hour emergency service in Gernika will be able to solve the problems that are detected. It does not seem to be an easy problem to solve, neither for the counselor nor for us, nor for anyone. Not for Navarra, not for Cantabria, not for La Rioja. There are no unemployed pediatricians in the labour market. Other countries operate differently. In the United Kingdom or Nordic countries, where we have been constantly looking through the reform of our health system, there are no pediatricians in primary care. They have pediatricians in hospitals. It's okay, it's your organizational culture. We do, we have pediatricians in health centers, clinics and outpatient clinics, since the National Health Bases Act of 44 and since the creation of the SOE (the SOE, the Compulsory Health Insurance) of 42, since the creation of the Insalud of 78... And Osakidetza never changed this criterion. Health systems are complex organizations, which generate culture in the population and generate behaviors of use. Therefore, our mothers and fathers, who notice that they do not have pediatricians in their health centers, perceive as a loss of their rights the issue of the absence of pediatricians. This has to be solved. The problem is not only if coverage is enough, family doctors work well, the Basque population is perfectly attended to... No, because mothers don't see it that way. You have to listen to them! When we listen to mothers, who are to be heard, or to professional groups, we listen to opinions of all tastes. For example, the Association of Primary Care Pediatrics of the Basque Country, with which we have had the pleasure of speaking (I am well on time, right?), argues that without pediatricians there is no good care for boys and girls. The Basque Society of Family and Community Medicine Osatzen, of the Basque Country, with which we have had the pleasure of meeting, proposes that family doctors (family doctors, because the profession is very feminized)... , they say they care perfectly for the boys and girls of Euskadi: they have four years of specialization in which they rotate by Pediatrics; no problem. The position of Elkarrekin Podemos is that we must care for our children who are qualified for it and who have sufficient skills. Being a parliamentarian is not being a good politician; it is knowing the job of being a parliamentarian, which is different. We have to solve the problem. It's time, because we're getting a little complicated. An effort must be made to encourage pediatric primary care places; to listen to and balance the judgments of the various professional and social groups; to listen to their proposals, and to put forward some lines of change, no doubt another organizational model, another model of organization of the provision. Because if the council believes that you have to put family doctors instead of pediatricians on the network, you have to explain it. If I'm not against it! But you have to explain. You have to talk to people like they're normal. You need to talk to the mothers. You have to explain it in Rontegi, in Zumaia, in Lekeitio, in Zornotza... You have to explain! No, I think family doctors... People are feeling like a loss every time there's a problem like this. We believe that there are more than enough measures to analyse the issue, maintain the quality and coverage of our health system and raise the issue with criteria. There are more variables, not only the availability of pediatricians, but already more than 30% are more than fifty years old in Osakidetza. That is, that the pace of pediatric retirements in Osakidetza has been combined with birth. And in addition, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party – and others are not against it – are putting in place demographic incentives, incentives for families, because Euskadi is declining in population (13,000 less last year). The issue has been raised several times. If birth promotion is being considered, the issue of pediatrics and its coverage must be resolved. Training via MIR is not enough (ten quotas only in Bizkaia). In medical numerus clausus, medical students, you have to review it. There are the Jesuits, always parrot : they will create a faculty of medicine next year. Logically, we have to make a good diagnosis of the situation and population dynamics. Is the birth rate enough? No, because Araba has 9.8 per thousand inhabitants, but Salvatierra... For example, Gasteiz districts 5 and 6 double that rate. Birth rates have different behaviors in different geographical areas. As José Antonio Pastor said, what is unequal at the starting point must be treated unequally. Birth rates, percentage of zero to two years... The percentages from zero to two years... Because you know that pediatricians have a quota of zero to fourteen years, and they're asking until they're eighteen years old. But where are you going, man! Where are you going! Until the age of eighteen, for what? From zero to fourteen years. But from zero to two years they go to consult ten times more than two to fourteen years. Then the problem is not a pediatrician for 800 TIS (individual health cards); the problem is what percentage of zero to two years each pediatrician has, for the purpose of working effectively and efficiently. We need, Mr. Counsellor, a paediatric master plan for Osakidetza in the shortest possible time. And let's talk about other criteria then in the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u100	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u101	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon again. 'Eunk's a firm bet for people.' Our goal and commitment are to place people in the centre of our system. And in this engagement, we pay special attention to the weakest sectors of the population, and amongst them how not, our children and young men. No doubt health, security, and well-being are the undeniable rights of our children and young men. The Basque Government defends the unquestionable right of boys and girls to health and to quality health care, and I know that you believe me if I tell you that we work day by day to defend the rights of our boys and girls, that in the case of health you know that they are guaranteed. In Euskadi periodically, as you said, the debate arises as to whether we have enough pediatricians to guarantee quality health care, and the truth is that – I told you yesterday in the hallway – I never thought you would bring this up in Parliament, because you, who know well and firsthand about pediatric care and health outcomes, know that they are very good. You, who spoke to me about Lekeitio and was area director and region in the Barrualde region, know that today there are many more pediatricians than there were when you were running the region. And I'm not talking about perceptions or sensitivities: I'm talking about the sociodemographic reality of our country and the health care supply and health outcomes of our health system. Look, I am, like many of this House, born in the baby boom generation. In the 1960s more than 10,000 children were born in Cruces a year. Today 6,000 are born, yet the system has 30% more pediatricians than in the 1960s. Then that complex problem that you define is not that there are no pediatricians, but how they are distributed. And it is not necessary to mix pediatric care with if there is a pediatrician to replace the pediatrician of Ondarroa in the month of August. They're completely different things. The Department of Health and Osakidetza regularly and rigorously analyse the health care of the child population, in order to maintain the quality and accessibility of primary care units and hospital paediatric services, with their corresponding subspecialities, and also with pediatric emergencies. You know that you are working a think tank composed of primary care pediatricians, hospital pediatricians, both university and district hospitals, pediatric nurses and technicians from the Department of Health and Osakidetza, analyzing the resources and results of the different areas of action, to make proposals to improve the pediatric care model of Osakidetza. I mean, what you've been asking me has been working since the last legislature. And, in fact, the situation we're in today is a much better situation than we anticipated a few years ago. As you know, and you mentioned, in 2011, in the ninth legislature, in the same debate, the department at that time, Osakidetza, made a report (I don't know whether it was a consultant or not, because it really wasn't), "Health map of the Basque Country. Pediatrics in primary care" (you have it at your disposal). It provided for a shortage of pediatricians in view of the possible growth of the child population. However, it should be noted that the demographic projection currently planned between 2016 and 2017 foresees the opposite: it foresees a continuous decline in the child population, a decrease of about 39,000 boys and girls, 13%. Moreover, as you well know, the age group in which the greatest decrease is expected is that of zero to six years, which, also as you know, is the largest number of visits to pediatric services. The number of children under the age of seven is 2.5 times that of the age group between seven and fourteen. Undoubtedly, birth projection and age distribution aspects of the child population should be taken into account in planning future measures and alternatives. Well, I'll give you some data analyzed, with the current forecast, in summary, of pediatric services. And the situation today is next. I am sorry to contradict you: there are no 100 places in primary care for children covered by family doctors. There aren't. Today, 86% of the child population is cared for by children with a pediatrician, out of 329 children in primary care. 86 %. With regard to nursing, in 74% of pediatric visits, the nurse is engaged in full-time and exclusively in pediatrics. The average of each pediatric quota is today 889 boys or girls, below the ratio considered optimal by the Spanish Association of Pediatrics. Regarding accessibility (an important issue), it is remarkable that all primary care teams in Euskadi have a pediatric offer, which, if we look north (we look to France, Germany, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden... could follow), does not happen. In addition, 68 of the total number of primary care teams in Euskadi also offer pediatric care with a pediatrician in the afternoon. Paediatric visits have decreased since 2011. Even so, last year – very important – the boys and girls of Euskadi went to their primary care pediatrician 6.1 times average. That is, more than once every two months, not to mention the times when they were treated in emergencies and in hospital pediatric consultations, which clearly reflects that the model of care is one, and the problem in health is another. Regarding pediatric hospital care, we have a pediatric service in ten of the twelve acute hospitals, with 189 pediatricians. We have hospital emergencies in ten of the thirteen acute hospitals. And – very important data – in relation to the training of future pediatricians, in Euskadi there are currently 24 accredited places for MIR training in pediatrics, which means that today there are 90 pediatricians in training, and in the next ten years will come out of the MIR 240 new pediatricians in Euskadi. And, in case it wasn't enough, the department has applied for three more places, which we have pending the response from the ministry and we hope it will be affirmative. Finally, if we look at the retirement forecast, to which you have also referred, I will tell you that in the next ten years 134 pediatricians will reach the age of sixty-five; as you can see, a figure far below those currently in training. In short, we are convinced that this is not a health problem, and we also think that, contrary to what was estimated in 2011, the current situation is considerably better. The condition in the pediaat is, therefore, much better than that which was anticipated a few years ago; In the next ten years we will have more than 240 pediatrics, while retreats will be 144. So, as far as we're concerned for our next years, we can say that our predictions are good. In any case, we will continue to work that our children and children should be properly provided for health. That's why we've done this research, and we're hiring the crews I've just mentioned, with the purpose of checking with them all the improvement options that could be in this area. I will repeat this again: 86% of pediatrics (and there are pediatrics in all primary care centres) are covered by a pediatrician; the other 14% are covered by family doctors with sufficient experience and training in pediatrics. I understand that you're not going to ask me that we have to have professionals, with ten years of training and four of MIR, in the unemployment bag, waiting for Lekeitio's pediatrician to take a vacation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u102	Thank you, Mr. Darpón... Your time is over. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u103	Counselor, don't go up to the parrot. I already know you're an informed man, you'd just miss it!, and a conscientious man with the problems we have. Of course, we have good health indicators: less than four per thousand live births with a child death rate, eighty-three years of life expectancy at birth, etc., etc. The component of infant death is primarily neonatal... What am I going to tell you that you and I do not know and the parliamentarians must know! I do not raise this problem; the health results are excellent in Euskadi, the health system has wide coverage. I raise a problem that, from the citizen's point of view... Because you're a counselor and I'm a parliamentarian, and, you think what you think and I think what you think, there are more than 4,000 signatures in different municipalities... Today they come to me from meetings, they come to me from the Alavesa Plain, they come to me from the other side... We need to respond to people's precept of our health system. We cannot allow the perception by our people, by our voters, of the health system to be feelings of loss, when things work as well as you say, right? Then, or you clearly explain, and the leaders of Osakidetza, that our family doctors can give excellent quality care, and the pediatric emergencies of Gernika, Urdulitz and Galdakao (I hope this summer, they do not have) have enough coverage to attend no longer the tourist boom this summer, or no longer the supposed birth increase that Euskadi will have thanks to the measures of work reconciliation and family reconciliation that here too will be discussed... Here there will necessarily be an increase in birth rate, and we have to have all the social services prepared, Osakidetza the first. What I'm asking you is a much simpler subject. And, by the way, it would be a very good idea to start, from the political point of view (the coverage would be a success for the Basque Nationalist Party and this government); that, I insist, the pediatric emergencies twenty-four hours from the Galdakao hospital, the Gernika hospital... , well, the center of Gernika and the center of Urduliz, have twenty-four hours all summer. What I am asking you is that we need a paediatric master plan, that you explain it in this Basque Parliament and in the Health Committee, and that we can explain it to the social partners. If I don't say anything else! And to know, for example, that in Álava the birth rates and the percentages of zero to two years of all its municipalities are very unequal: Salvatierra, Legutio, etc., etc., are already at 20%, 22%, from zero to two years; the average birth rates are double, for example, in more than half a dozen municipalities in Álava. Therefore, no doubt – you have mentioned it well – there is a problem of distribution of resources, but there is a problem of model organization of our network as well. There is a problem, as you have mentioned, in the role of pediatrician. I propose several matters to address the issue without so much complacency. The first issue is that it is worth it, in Osakidetza, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, to propose another model of organization where people are heard more, where their services are democratized, we have relations with the citizens' collectives much more honest and horizontal, and we can explain that nursing should control the healthy child, not the pediatrician, and free the pediatrician's time for pathologies. That we need to do more consultation, and that pediatrician flows between hospital and health center have to be more agile, necessarily. Other time slots, where we focus pediatric care; other geographic models of resource distribution, according to birth rates and percentages of boys and girls from zero to two years. Increase the MIR quota! It's not enough what we have! In Bizkaia we have ten pediatricians in MIR quota. It's not enough, we don't have adequate replacement rates. Increase the number of students in medical schools. Has it reached 350 in numerus clausus? Who needs to talk to the university? Another model of labour relations. Explicit policies, where pediatricians and pediatricians who leave our hospitals, well trained, go to health centres, with adequate incentives, with professional incentives, for geographical reasons and for reasons of schedule. A master plan for pediatrics. Is it done yet? We know that there is a team of experts of their own, not outside consultants, who are working on the subject. I have nothing but thanks for this initiative! We in this Parliament, and in the Committee on Health in particular, would like to know as soon as possible the master plan for paediatrics, to explain to our people, to our voters, to the social partners, also to the trade unions... that sometimes they are so annoying, right? but sometimes they repeat truths like fists. This is the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u104	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up... Your time is over... Your time is over. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u105	Mr. Uria, we have an excellent example of health in Basque children and young men. Thus, in a great measure, the health hospitals of the children in between 0 and 14 are performed directly by pediatricians. As I said before, 86% of the child dealer is treated directly by pediatrians. I suppose you'll agree with me, for example, that the result is good. Let me just make a correction: listening is not a heritage of the left. Listening is not a heritage of the left, not even of the opposition. In the Government we hear a lot, believe me; what happens is that, of course, we have an obligation, in addition to listening, to respond, to respond effectively. Look, if the problem of pediatrics in Euskadi is that the population moves to the coastal areas or inside of La Rioja to summer, and with families move the children, blessed problem! Blessed problem, but nothing more. In Euskadi we enjoy quality pediatric assistance. You know that there are no major problems, and you know perfectly well the level of accessibility, coverage and specialization of pediatric care offered by Osakidetza. I will be extremely grateful if, far from generating alarm, which I do not think has generated it, you help explain that there are enough pediatricians, that there are more than in most health models, and that in places where there is no pediatrician there is a family doctor with four years of training, experience in pediatrics and specific training, who has the population perfectly attended. And that we are convinced that in the future, in the near future, there will be pediatricians everywhere. And that we have made much progress in the coverage of pediatric subspecialities in hospitals: in pediatric oncology, pediatric pneumology, pediatric endocrinology, pediatric allergy, pediatric nephrology, pediatric infectiouss... In many and different places. In neonatal units, in pediatric intensive care units, in pediatric home hospitalization, which in few places there are, and we are working to offer pediatric palliative care at home in all areas of the Basque Country. That's where the pediatricians are, matching with primary school. I agree with you that one of the important and most valued aspects of the population is pediatric care in primary care, for which the department, while I lead it, will continue to bet and we will preserve. We work with professionals and scientific societies to ensure that the organization is adequate and the number of professionals is sufficient, and we also ensure that care can be guaranteed in the language of choice, whether Basque or Spanish, where we also have problems in some municipalities according to the professional assigned, especially in the pediatric population. Another example of Osakidetza's effort to increase the number of pediatric places and its job stability are the latest public job offers: in the 2011 OPE (the last, but recent, parliamentary term) 61 pediatric places in primary care and 30 pediatric places in hospital were opened; in the 2014–2015 OPE 55 more pediatric places in primary care were convened. A total of 146 paediatric positions have been convened in the last two legislatures. Therefore, Mr Uria, I thank you for your interest, and I will thank you more for your cooperation in this problem, where I think you can help. But since assuming responsibility for the management of the Basque health system, we have increased the availability and accessibility of pediatric care in general terms, and the provision of pediatric places for the coming years offers us a positive picture. We are working, as you have well remembered, in a working group, because the opinion of the professionals also worries us; professionals who for the most part, being a specialist in hospital training, have a great tendency to stay in hospitals. But I believe that, without a doubt, we can say that the current pediatric health care is guaranteed, that quality is good, that the professionals – both pediatricians and family doctors – who perform it have adequate training, and that this will be maintained in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u106	Thank you, chief physician. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpology, the legislature of the Eugulcan Groups of Carmulus Barrius Barroja, made for Cultura and the chief of the political departments of Language, the criteria of the Eucadical Archive in the case of the judicial documents." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Mr. Zupiria, counselor, good morning too. This inquiry is focused on the improvement of the management of the documentary heritage, in this judicial case, which is also part of what is archived, of the historical documentary heritage and of the analysis of documentation, in this case of the judicial one. And in relation to the topic we have identified a study in relation to the records of the judicial purge boards, that is, the purge boards, that institution that previews and decides the destruction of documents of hearings and courts of Euskadi, which have been meeting since 2006. In this regard, an analysis has been made of what is being destroyed, of the documents of different Euskadi courts, of hearings: criminal cases, trials of faults, previous proceedings, preparatory proceedings, summary proceedings, civil matters, matters relating to district, municipal, county, first instance courts, etc. All that documentation, huge documentation on the other hand. In the study of documentation relating to two parliamentary initiatives of the past parliamentary term in relation to the minutes of the purge boards, and in relation to that documentation relating to this subject (acts of judicial purge of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country), the fact is that in this analysis – and in addition an analysis not only ours, but specialized, because they are very complicated subjects, there is a lot of information, a lot of documentation – we have found the need for a somewhat more objective criterion; the need to design or develop or approve certain criteria or guidelines that regulate the evaluation, conservation and fundamentally – we come to the key word – destruction, if any, of judicial documentation. Destruction takes place, and that document no longer exists for any purpose. Neither to a judicial or legal effect, in fact, but not to a scientific, historical or informational effect. And in that regard, we have been somewhat concerned about the analysis of that documentation, because there have been some particularly loud cases. This statement, of course, is based on the fact that the result of this analysis we have been able to verify that judicial documents of particular relevance, which affect unfinished or unfinished legal proceedings, have been destroyed without justification and without meeting objective criteria. That has been a concern for us, and it has been, as a result of that analysis and expert analysis, a wake-up call and the identification of some need, we do not know very well which one. The normative framework is what it is, but the need for new criteria and guidelines, concerned about some lack of such criteria that preserve documentation, some of them sensitive. We've kept doing that analysis, we've analyzed the drain joints... Indeed, the Basque Government participates; together with the Judicial Administration, the Basque Government participates in the purge boards. It also participates in an effective way. It has to do so, because from there part the documentation that will form part of the historical heritage, the documentary heritage, our archives, the historical archive in your case, or the provincial archives, in relation to the judicial documentation. And in that regard, those purge boards, those judicial documents destruction boards, must have the relevant reports of the Basque Government, and of course their presence on those purge boards. Well, we've seen that... It seems to me that there have been eleven meetings, some of which have not been attended by the representative of the Basque Government... But that's not the problem. The problem is the actual work done, it is the competence of the Basque Government, the preservation of the documentary heritage, in this case the historical documentary archives. We have seen that there have been documents destroyed, i.e. there has been some damage, of some documents, I say again, relevant (I'll give you some example then), and that is the problem. I believe that it has been somewhat identified, in the analysis of that documentation, that there is perhaps a problem of guidelines, of minimum standards to be applied to those criteria of destruction of documentation, perhaps also of analysis or of identification of the relevance of some topics. And there are the questions. The Basque Government is legally responsible for safeguarding and preserving the judicial documentary heritage of Euskadi. It is there in the regulations, it is there in the competences it has, regardless of whether there is a joint work of the autonomous community, in relation to that preservation of the judicial documentary heritage of Euskadi, with the actions of the courts and the judges who are also part of that purge board. But I say again that the reports and the presence of the Basque Government, in relation to the preservation of the judicial documentary heritage that can and will be historical heritage, is there. It is clear that, when analysing such documentation and deciding on the destruction of sensitive judicial documentation, the Basque Government, or in its case those responsible for the Basque Government, do have knowledge and knowledge of it, and there are no lack of legal tools to preserve that historical documentary heritage. I want to say that the summary of the trial number 3 of Bilbao, destroyed in 2008, of the murder by ETA in 1978 of José María Portell Manso; the murder by ETA of José María Maderal Oleaga (summary of the trial number 1 of Bilbao destroyed in 2008); Diego Alfaro Orihuela, murdered in 1979 (summary of the trial number 4 of Bilbao); Pedro Goiri Gaviria, murdered in 1979 (juzgado de Instrucción number 3 of Bilbao); Luis María Uriarte Alzaa, murdered in 1979 (pre-trial proceedings of the trial number 1 of Durango); Manuel Fuentes Fontán, murdered in 1979 (summary of the trial number 3 of Bilbao); Anastasio Leal Serrallo and the children Maria Contreras Gabarra and Antonio Contreras Gabarra, murdered by the Triple A in 1980 (pre-trial proceedings of the trial number 1 of Bilbao). Destroyed. There is more, there is more, not as relevant as these types of documents and summaries. Well, these have been destroyed. These have been destroyed for the purposes of judicial investigation perhaps, but of scientific research, the study of historical analysis, these summaries and documentation, with historical relevance, have been destroyed. Well, we don't have to do more than the analysis at this point in time of this situation. That situation has occurred in recent years, and it needs to be fixed. Steps must be taken to ensure that this situation does not recur, or at least that the criterion on the identification of which documents are destroyed or which documents are preserved, incurred in the normal activity or in the activity of an equitable tribunal or an equitable hearing, must therefore be preserved for its determined value. But, I say again, there are documents, within the analysis of these draining joints, that would never have had to be destroyed. Indeed, we have to urge the Government, we have to tell the Government how it appreciates this situation, but we also have to say that we can certainly take action and make it possible for all of us to have such situations... or to improve the functioning of the purge board, or the reports that the Basque Government's own heritage technicians can make. Well, ultimately, the counselor will answer me or assess this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u109	Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio, good morning to all. Mr Barrio, I thank you for the opportunity you have given us to bring this issue to Parliament, because it is an important issue and because it attracts the interest of the Government. Since the formation of this Executive, it has been a matter that has attracted the interest and concern of both our Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy and the Department of Justice, to which it also belongs. This is a subject on which the two departments are working together. And before entering let me put into context the origin of these drain joints, as well as their composition and functioning. Article 14 of Royal Decree No. 937/2003 of 18 July 2003 on the modernization of the judicial archives regulated these judicial documents. The purpose of the boards is to determine the judicial documents that must be removed, in order to transfer the remainder to the administration competent in the matter of historical heritage. The royal decree establishes the composition of the exurgation boards attached to the Ministry of Justice for those communities that have transferred the competence..., defines a model for which they have not transferred it, and also defines a model for which they have it. And that's the case with ours. Thus, it confers on the Basque Autonomous Community the power to determine its composition, which in any case must be presided over by a judge and composed of at least three members, including a prosecutor, a senior technician and a judicial secretary specializing in archives. Finally, Article 17.3 provides that, during the period between the call and the meeting of the Extrusion Board, the administration competent in the matter of historical heritage shall draw up a report of a binding nature, which shall include judicial files or documents which, by virtue of their historical or documentary value, must be preserved, for the purpose of which it may appoint specialized personnel to access the judicial file in which they are located. As far as other autonomous communities are concerned, the standards adopted have been at the initiative of the relevant departments in the field of justice. On two occasions, in those of Asturias and Aragon, the departments of justice and historical heritage have intervened in this decision. For the composition of the boards, in addition to the presidency and the three mandatory vowels mentioned above, specialists in archival matters are appointed on the proposal of the competent institutions in the field of justice and historical heritage, and a superior technician who performs the functions of secretary. With regard to the Board of Extrusion of the Basque Autonomous Community, its headquarters and composition were regulated by a resolution of September 2004 of the Deputy Councillor of Justice of the Basque Government, and its composition was established in this way: a judge as President, a prosecutor, a senior archival technician appointed by the administration competent in historical heritage, and a judicial secretary, to which is added the head of the Technical Unit of Management of Bizkaia, under the Directorate of Relations with the Administration of Justice, and the representative of the department competent in the field of culture, in this case the head of archives, and at the last meetings a technician of the Historical Archive of Basque. This purge board has met a dozen times since its establishment in 2005. The criteria that have guided the documentary management of the board during all these years have been the following. First, the permanent preservation, for transfer to the Historical Archive of Euskadi, of the documentation from 1836 to 1960. Part of this documentation is also described in summary sheets (about 85,000 documents). A further 110,000 documents have also been digitized, of which 70,000 are accessible from the Euskadi Archives System web portal. The second criterion has been that of permanent preservation, for transfer to the Euskadi Historical Archives, of seven sets of civil jurisdiction (breaks, suspensions of payments, competitions, wills, domain files, adoptions and declarations of death). And thirdly, as a third criterion, the permanent preservation, for its transfer to the Historical Archive of Euskadi, of a random sample of series of civil and criminal jurisdiction. Between 2006 and 2016, eleven meetings of the purge board were held, which resulted in the corresponding destruction announcements published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. This is the context in which the action, the criteria, the composition of the purge board and the decisions that have been taken have been developed. In any event, and that being said, I would like to point out to you that this Government considers it necessary to make some changes in the performance and composition of this board. More than twelve years have passed since its creation, and given the evolution experienced during this time in document management, we believe that a comprehensive model of management of judicial documentation is necessary. This requires changes both in terms of methodology and in terms of the composition of the board itself. And, as a result of the detection of this need, the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy and the Department of Labour and Justice are working on this issue, specifically in the Directorate of Cultural Heritage and the Directorate of Administration of Justice, as I was already beginning to speak. The work requires deep reflection and serious and conscientious work, which allows us to remedy the errors that have actually been detected in the operation of this archival and purge activity, and this is what we intend to do in the coming months in tune between the two departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u111	Thank you, President. And briefly, too, because the Councillor has recently taken possession of this matter, but of course he has picked up the need and analysis of what is now a small deficit in what has already been identified in relation to some issues relating to the protection of documentary heritage. But, well, I think what you said in relation to that deep reflection, in relation to this issue, we share... I would like to say that, in line with this inquiry, we will try to make a motion of support precisely for that profound reflection and for that need for some changes, as he himself has said, in the methodology or in the composition and analysis and the reports that coincide in the decisions of that purge board. I mean, I think that's the issue, that's the approach, that's what we wanted to identify that situation. We have, I say again, borne fruit recently, more than a year ago, of the identification of these minutes and of their thorough and detailed analysis, where these circumstances have been identified, those situations to which I have mentioned, which are an example but which is appropriate, in the functioning of these kinds of institutions that decide to destroy documentary heritage... Documents that some, indeed... have been mentioned to the wills, to the bankruptcies, to many irrelevant civil issues, or that have passed the time, but there are some issues that actually need a deeper, more professional, more intense analysis in relation to what may be the subsequent work of informants, scientists, historians, families, in relation to facts and complicated and delicate situations. In this sense – I think it is there – the Basque Country has transferred these competences, as the Councillor has acknowledged, in relation to the management of the heritage, in relation to the heritage. Here we have a management of a heritage I believe that important and professionalized in relation to what has to be the Historical Archive of Euskadi, but also the three provincial archives (of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa), which also contemplate, which host documentation, not only the judicial, but from many other areas (administrative or educational, or institutional) that have to do with management and which have to do with putting to the public much of our history and much of the history of our institutions. That is why I believe that having the means, having the powers, having the decision-making capacity, having the professionals (because we have professionals first in relation to the management of archives, which I suppose, I have no doubt, will be consulted to see how this reflection is organized, first, and then the analysis of the methodology and composition of the boards that have to decide on documentary heritage, in this judicial case, and I suppose there will be many other issues that also affect the heritage), because, we understand that this is what we will have to support and what we will have to decide. These guidelines, these new needs, these criteria, which will be transformed into regulations or transformed into decrees, or orders, or circulars, or forms of action, but which of course preserve the documentary heritage, which was what we intended with our initiative and we will try to move into the corresponding motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u113	President andrea. We agree with the need to fine-tune these criteria. Surely the criteria that were established and used in their day, in addition to reaching a general agreement, were thought to be the most suitable. In fact, a test was used, a sample purge, which is what is known with that term in the field of archival science, which has shown that in some cases it may not be the most appropriate, especially in those cases where the destruction of series may put relevant information at risk. That is why we are proposing this reform, which must also involve not only experts or technicians in the field of historical heritage: we believe that the point of view of the Department of Justice, as well as the point of view of the judiciary, is also important. That's why... Well, you have announced to me the introduction of a motion, but I am interested in your knowledge that, apart from the internal meetings that we have held in the Government, we have proposed to the dean judge of Bilbao, president of the purge board, the creation of a working group to establish a more appropriate system of purge, and more specifically we want to link it also with judicial reform and an integral model of management of judicial documentation. Because we believe that all this, in addition to improving the preservation of the documentary heritage that we have, could also help to modernise the management of the Basque judicial system. I'll tell you more: In the opinion of the chairman of the Cultural Day, he is the director of the Cultua, who wrote a letter to our dean. In the meantime, we ought to abandon this plan of dispersal the documents until we have formed new criteria and resolutions. Eta esan disudan bezala, horrella jakinarazi zion gure Kulturako zuzendariak epaileari, martxoaren 7an bidalitako gutun batan. Hitzez hitz esaten zion: "The process of eliminating documentation should be suspended until there is a comprehensive technical agreement that confirms the adequacy of the current criteria for extrusion or their replacement by more suitable ones". We're talking about the integral management of the documentation, the investigation and care that will receive what's happened all the life of the documentation. And so it's not just a spurgish thing. We think that he is more than he is, and therefore we give him this context to make this inquiry, and therefore desire to see them as members of us, besides our divisions, the representatives of the rulers of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Edurne García problememæ, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemus team for Cultura and the head of the political Division of Language, about the formation of an organizational committee for the Krea project." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u115	Eskerrik asko. Good morning, everyone. Mr Zupiria, from Elkarrekin We can present two months ago a non-legislative proposal concerning the creation of an inter-institutional commission to draft a feasibility plan for the Krea building, representing all the institutions. A plan that aimed to design an execution plan that would recover for Gasteiz's citizenship the original idea, that is, the use as a cultural space for the creators and artists. The full amendment submitted by PNV and PSE was supported by the PP. In it, you insisted quite strongly that it be the Vital Box that led this commission, although we did not see it necessary or desirable: it is the Vital Box that hinders with its attitude a solution to a problem that has created the Vital Box itself. On 4 May, a reply was received from the president of the Vital employers' office, Mr Jon Urresti García; a frankly surprising reply, the truth. It states that creating working commissions is not operational. That is to say, they formally refuse to lead this interinstitutional committee whose establishment they supported PNV, PSE and PP. With some sorna, on the other hand, we are invited to approach the foundation with our business plan. A doorway in every rule, and a lack of respect for the Albanian citizenry and this institution. What initiative, Mr. Zupiria, will the Department of Culture take on the Krea building, once the Caja Vital Foundation refuses to lead the inter-institutional commission whose creation was approved in the non-legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u117	Good morning, Mrs. Garcia. Indeed, as you said, a non-legislative proposal was adopted in the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sport on 5 April, which stated what it was saying: the Caja Vital Foundation was urged to lead a commission representing the City of Vitoria, the Foral de Álava and the Basque Government, as well as representatives of the world of Alavesa culture and the Mahaia Culture Bureau, to study the feasibility or not of the Krea project with the original idea that inspired it. As you have said, this Parliament has received a reply from the president of the Vital Foundation, in which he refers to a commitment made by Vital in 2014, and still in force today, to host a reference educational centre in the building, without prejudice to the fact that, if the project did not succeed, other alternatives would be considered. It is also clear from the same letter that for the moment the Krea project is not compatible with the strategy that guides the social work of the Vital Foundation and the use to which it wishes to allocate the building of its property in Bethon. Therefore, I can only say that the Basque Government can only be respectful with those who hold the property of the Betoño building and with whom it must make any decision about its use, since it is up to the foundation and its employers to determine the most suitable project for the building in question and for its social use. I trust that the Vital Foundation, the owner of the building and responsible for the last decision on its possible uses, will take care of the interests of its social work and of the Alavesa society to which it owes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u119	Mr Zupiria, this Wednesday the same initiative has been discussed at the General Councils of Álava, and the creation of an inter-institutional commission with the cultural agents of the territory to reactivate Krea has been approved by a majority, as you know, in the Alavesa foral chamber. And now we wonder if it will happen as in Parliament and let a project like this continue to be relegated by the Vital Foundation, which after ten years and 18 million euros invested still makes clear in the letter that the building was designed for a failed project for economic reasons, namely the significant loss of profits that Kutxabank was getting. In February of last year, 2016, we were all able to read that Kutxabank has achieved 244 million euros of profit, 12% more than the previous year. That's where I leave it. Are the institutions going to continue denying the Alaves a multidisciplinary and participatory cultural space, or are they going to work for the short-term reopening of Krea, to give it a cultural and artistic use inspired by the concept of creation factories, which is exactly what it was born for? This would also put an end to the territorial imbalance, since in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia we have examples of similar spaces that help to encourage and stimulate the cultural effluence of each of these territories, where it has been shown that the involvement of all institutional levels is essential for their functioning. Why did you insist so much that the social work led the commission? Are you really interested in the reopening of space? Or is it a choreography shared with the social work – which could do honor to his name this time – not to reopen, to give private use to space and that in the end the usual ones benefit? I invite you, Mr Zupiria, to reflect. Because the opening and functioning of Krea with public management and character and without giving way to private projects, which do not respond to the demands of the cultural ecosystem in Araba, is only a matter of political will, and it is in the hands of all of us to work to make culture a subjective right of all citizens. As well as defending living spaces that, using egalitarian self-management models and from the involvement and work of many organized people, make projects like Errekaleor Bizirik's ones necessary. And you have to help them and recognize their work of rebuilding the neighborhood, not send the Ertzaintza to cut off the light and shut down the dreams and projects of many people. Hail the Rekallor Alive, for thee and for thee!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u121	García andrea, I will insist on my position: I believe that we must respect Vital Fundazioa's freedom to determine which project is most appropriate and consistent with his social work. And I sincerely believe that, given the position of its president, the Department of Culture of the Basque Government must be respectful of property and its decisions. If this is the case, the Basque Government will be prepared to analyse or support what the Vital Foundation may propose, but only in the event of such a request. We are not who to promote or participate in any inter-institutional platform that tells the Vital Foundation what to do with the Beton building, a commission and an aid that Vital has not requested. And neither are we who to impose on the foundation a project or a certain use for its building. The patronage of the foundation, an organ of social representation, is the highest body of government and representation of the Vital Foundation, and its obligation is to fulfill its founding purposes, for the purposes it has established as a social object, which is the social work basically, and to administer the goods and rights that make up the assets of the bank foundation (which is not a bank). We respect Vital's freedom to study and decide the most suitable project for his building in Betaño, and, as I have told you, we will be at the disposal of the foundation to accompany them as far as possible for the benefit of all Alavesa society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Basque Party of Carmelo Barrio Barroja Popula, made for Cultura and the head of the political department of the State of Policia, the great Court of the Basque Autonomy, to protect the palace of the Fine Arts of Donostia. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u123	Thank you, President. Also in order to know the Basque Government's assessment of a sentence, we will talk again – in this Parliament we have done so quite repeatedly – about the Fine Arts building in San Sebastián. Recalling also what a few days ago also appeared in the media, in an interesting letter to the director... , that the Fine Arts of San Sebastián is a centenary building, the oldest cinematographer in Spain at this time, which, since the special plan of the area "R" of San Sebastián of 1978 (work of Peña Ganchegui, Moneo and Bohigas), had the protection of permanent element, as well as the diputation and like the Victoria Eugenia or the Good Shepherd. Since that time many vicissitudes have passed, and all this ends in a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. Steps had already been taken by the Basque Government, by the department you now have (before your predecessor), and the technical services of the department had taken steps in relation to the effective protection of Fine Arts, in a better situation than that granted to you in relation to protection. However, the decision of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country subsidiary estimates the appeal lodged by the Société Anónima de Deportes y Espectáculos (SADE) against the order of 4 March 2015 of the Department of Education and Culture of the Basque Government, by which the building is registered as a cultural property with a category of monument in the General Inventory of the Basque Cultural Heritage. That sentence says quite a few things, probably some of them questionable. And that is the fundamental element, because the sentence can be appealed. That is the fundamental element: the judgment says that an appeal of cassation may be lodged, within thirty days, with the Supreme Court, the Dispute-Administrative Chamber, or with the Dispute-Administrative Chamber itself of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. It is clear that it is proven to be appropriate, from our point of view and from our analysis of what we have tested in Donostia society in relation to this protection, it is demonstrated to be appropriate the submission of an appeal which continues to affect, as the Basque Government and its advisory bodies have stated, the protection of the building. If we would like to know, in the light of this judgment, what the Basque Government is going to do, what it intends to do in connection with the filing of the appeal against a judgment for which you have arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u124	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u125	Barrio jauna, the Department of Culture of the Basque Government and its legal services have analysed in depth the ruling of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country on the Fine Arts case of San Sebastián, and has decided not to appeal to the Supreme Court. Therefore, we will not continue the protection file of the Bellas Artes building. The judgment itself of the High Court of Justice acknowledges that there has been a great debate of a major legal complexity around the ruin or not of the building, but, in any case, after making this consideration, the High Court of Justice decides and concludes that the building is in ruin. We don't say that. And we believe that this judicial decision substantially modifies the valuation envisaged in its day in the file for the protection of the property. That protective file considered that the building was not in ruins, why? Because he did it on the basis of technical reports from the San Sebastian City Hall. As the judgment itself states, in the light of existing case law on the subject, a property in a state of ruin may be declared (can be declared) cultural, provided that it has sufficiently relevant values to justify the maintenance of the building to an excess. In this sense, it should be remembered that, according to the order of March 2015 already cited, the building Bellas Artes was inscribed as a good inventory, not as a good qualified. Qualified are those goods that are recognized for their unique value or relevance, and inventories are those that are not recognized for such relevance. Therefore, in the case of the Fine Arts there are not enough relevant values to justify the maintenance of the building to the excess. On the other hand, and in view of the possibility of filing a cassation appeal with the Supreme Court, we must point out that the legal services of the Basque Government do not recommend this option, because they consider a different decision by this court to be highly unlikely. The judgement states that it is not sufficiently substantiated and documented that the Bellas Artes building is not in a state of ruin, and in this new phase of the judicial procedure it would not be possible to add or incorporate new documentation to prove otherwise. We must finally remember that, as the judgment itself pointed out, it is now municipal competence to determine the formal declaration of ruin of the Bellas Artes building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u127	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for the explanations, but for us it's bad news. It is a bad news, indeed, in the light of the judgment too, which reflects the subsidiary claims of the property. We understand that there is room for debate and there is room for analysis of this issue, especially in view of the basis on which the decisions of the Basque Government were based when it came to protecting the building. It's bad news. I would ask you to reconsider the decision. It is quite clear that this Parliament cannot take..., there is no longer time for an urgent initiative, for a motion in this case, or for a non-legislative proposal, even if it is urgent. There is no time, it is quite clear that the days have passed. But it is true that I still believe that you have a reflection, a final reflection on the issue. There are very questionable elements – we don't have time – in the judgment itself, elements that do have value and legal factor to put on the table, but, well, in any case, this moment has come, if we ask you to appeal and you don't make that decision, you have to agree already definitely with the City of San Sebastián to preserve as far as possible, to protect a building like the Fine Arts, which has been emblematic, which is emblematic, which is the history of San Sebastián and of Euskadi, and of course something has to do the institutions for their conservation, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u128	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u129	Barrio jauna, I will insist: the decision about the future of the Bellas Artes building is now in the hands of the City Council of San Sebastián. And by direct testimony I know that your intention is to bet on a use that suits the public use of the building and its protection. And this is an issue that is being dealt with right now by the City Council of San Sebastian and that is going to deal with the property, which in all this has been talked about very little but which I think has a lot to say as well. The decision to register the Fine Arts as an inventory was at the time the most consistent decision with the situation of the building, and to this end the technical reports mentioned above were taken into account. The position that we now take, not to give continuity to the file of the building, from a technical point of view, according to our lawyers, is the most rigorous position that we can adopt after knowing the judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the Ubeka Ubera and EH Collect are made for Cultura and the head physician of the political race, in order to penetrate into the normalization of the Basque Act." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u131	Hey, Bingen, you're getting less and less! Well, Mr. Zupiria, we thought that this legislation would really become an ventilation in the normalization of the euphora, we would have had a chance to work out and agree on the measures which might be quantum. We thought, too, that there would be a chance of remoulding the department, in fact, to penetrate into the normalization of the eucalyptic, and there would be an opportunity for the neighbourhood. Besides, this government has now chosen it as a motto in the neighbourhood. Maybe we made too many illusions, and it's our fault. But this legislation, the beginning of legislation, and especially the week before, has been very high. We were told that you'd take steps to make the work world resist, but we're seeing it and we've been rejected by the proposal of the profession we did. We were told that the administration would take steps to perform the eucalyptus: We've made a contribution and we've received no. It was said to us that learning to come to the conclusion that they would take steps to become a man of necessity, and we saw only the limits, and we received a negative. And we are already beginning to doubt what the political will of this government is. And in this legislation, as far as the chief departments are concerned, there has been a tremendous delay, compared with the former legislation, which is Dictates over the Echolares, and in this sense you will have to do something. We're measuring whether the use of the support of each department is, and it's a terrible step back in this legislation, so there's also your homework. Well, history seems at last to be in constant cheapness, and that you always have doubts about how you're going forward and how you're in miniature, and that's why we'd like to ask you for directions today, and we'd like to know the effective policies to penetrate into the normalization of joy. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u133	Well, once in a while, Rebeka, thank you for your cheers. On the 27th of October, in our first appearance, we mentioned what would be the principal principles of our language, or the most laborious principles, and we pronounced in words: "The end of this government is that the state of euphoria and youth should be more and more balanced on the way to equality, and that, together with that, the language options and the rights of all the people are really guaranteed." Moreover, we declared that this commitment was a commitment to all the parts of this government, and not only to a few. And we said that the cradle, together with the Spanish, must be a service language with the citizen, a language of communication between the administration and the administration of the administration. And we have already taken some of the principal criteria: In the first place, the principals were collected in the government program, and, taking their captions, are founded on the second and third points, which were the social development, the equality and public services of quality, the community of life and human rights, because we think that these captions well protect and encourage the policy of language in the context. Another high criteria is that of use. We need policies that will encourage the use of the Euskar during the development process, and we'll encourage them. And thirdly, it is very important that, when the priority is marked, it should consider and use as the basis of the sozylinous development of the eucalyptic process. From that point on, we'll try to fulfill the commitments established in the government program. On the one hand, we want to guarantee a language survival, and, on the other, we want equal and integrated attitudes to hit social cohesion, which is why we're conducting the activities of fulfilling commitments in order to achieve as effective language as possible, all together, and, as you've said, in the neighbourhood or in the interaction of each other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u134	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u135	Mr. Zupiria, we need policies to complete our goals, especially effective policies, which is what we miss: courage. We see no association, we see no equality, but what we see is still dissemination; discrimination, left to the rest, that's what we're seeing. And, indeed, if you wish to step forward, and to fulfil these ends, you must have courage and political will: not from minimalism, nor from maximalism, the steady and bold politics of the gray tone. Besides, we have better conditions than ever. Soplingistic situation is really good. So we don't understand what the problem is for this government to look back on or share PP's thesis in the discussions of the Social Party that you are comfortable with or comfortable with PP's. What we want to ask of you is really political will, courage, because there's a lot at stake, the Basques have a lot to play, and this country has a lot of gambling.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u137	Mrs. Ubera, there will be no want of political will, and I think we have clear criteria, and we'll do our best to make them effective. Another question is the opinion you can have of these considerations and of this efficiency; but, well, like you, I will defend mine. I'll give you a few precise examples. What have we done? Through the Akoba, we're making a great effort of co-ordination so that all the popular institutions can be carried on by the same route. We are in constant relation to those who know themselves as euphoria, and those who are now called euphortists, who aim to promote the education, study, and use of it. We are clear that we must acquire a free disposition in the sphere of euphorion, and commit to this legislation to the level of B2, together with the other institutions. Like the fourth act, we're making a deep analysis of the language confessions. We'll be ready for the summer, and we'll take that to Akobar to agree with other institutions. On the other hand, we're working on an investigation and programs to promote on our leisure and digital environment. And here, as an example, are some particular summer-grounds with the municipals, or eucalyptic Wikipedia. And we're doing research programs and certificates to make the euca work-language: Great reform, Euslan program, word investigation. I don't think we've any doubt about what we have to do, and I think the priors are clearly identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u138	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interressional, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Group, made to the Chief of Security on changing the law of the Police." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on. Well, I've got to get out of here. Counselor, the Basque Country Police Act is now twenty-five years old. Although it is true that you have had various changes, I believe that both you and this group consider it necessary to make a further change to update you in certain respects. And the amendment of the law has been postponed on several occasions. In the legislature of the government of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, of the lehendakari Patxi López, an amendment was introduced and processed. When the amendments were being discussed, and despite the fact that this group offered to withdraw its amendments so that the law could be amended, because it was necessary, however, the elections were advanced, the legislature concluded, and the amendment fell. In the past parliamentary term, the Governing Council approved the bill for the fifth amendment of the Police Act at its session on 26 April 2016, referring to this House in May. It was adopted almost one year after the date provided for in the previous legislative timetable. Obviously, when it was introduced it was already known that it did not give time to its processing, because a law as important as this requires appearances, amendments, debates... that take a while and that cannot be done to the race. That way – and I suppose you also have the temptation to say so – we then appealed to the will of the groups in this House for approval before the end of the legislature, and we were held responsible for finally not adopting this law, even though this accusation had no basis. The fact was, therefore, that the previous legislature passed without such an amendment either. In this legislature the legislative calendar is approved on 28 February 2017, and in that calendar the submission of the draft law amending the Police Act is planned for almost the end of next year, 2018. As I said before and as the explanatory statement for the bill that was presented in the last legislature, corresponding to the fifth amendment to the Police Act, that is to say to Law 4/1992, has been amended on several occasions. According to this explanatory statement too, in addition to calling for the withdrawal of the State Security Forces and Bodies (it seems that it is never a bad time to do so, is it not, Madam Counsellor?In addition to this, I say, the intention was to strengthen the new police model, legally reinforcing the modifications to that model. A good practice committee was set up and the Ekinbide complaints system was strengthened. New developments were introduced with regard to selection and entry into Ertzaintza, as well as with regard to internal promotion, career development and the provision of posts. And the scales were simplified by eliminating a category, that of the Superintendent. There was also a new regulation on the administrative situation of the second activity. The bill also regulated the presence of women in Ertzaintza, through positive discrimination measures, in order to achieve the goal of at least 33 per cent of women. Changes were also made to the disciplinary regime, and provisions were also made to the local police, regulating the figure of the sheriff (by the way, long demanded by the sheriffs themselves, that there be a legal regulation with respect to them). I would therefore like to ask you, Counsellor, whether all these new aspects are going to be regulated in the new draft, whether they are going to be maintained or not; whether the draft law is going to be virtually the same or whether new changes are going to be introduced. Because in the event that no changes are to be made, in the event that this bill that was submitted at that time remains in force, we would like to ask you why, after the new Government has taken office, the iter is not immediately started, the road is not immediately started, since the work was very advanced. The draft that had fallen could even have been taken up again, because all the reports had already been completed, or had been re-approved, but by requesting reports, of course, its drafting would have been much faster, because it had already been completed and the text would have been the same. Why then does it arise that I cannot appear in this House until the end of 2018? It may be because it has been decided to modify the draft, because some aspects of it are true that they had an answer. We would like to ask you, therefore, whether with the protest of some unions about some aspects of this project it is intended to change, because it is good that in the amendment of the law participation and assume the change those to whom it is directed fundamentally. It is good, therefore, to take account of the contribution of the citizens, of course, but also of the agents, the non-unions and those who are. When he presented the draft project, for example, the unions disagreed. Some, such as ESAN, censored aspects of the law, such as the control commission, considering it a political commission and contrary to our legislation. Moreover, in their words they considered it an aberration. It is true that this monitoring committee did not exist later on in the draft, but was replaced by a good practice committee, which would have to know whether the opinion it deserves from some unions, such as ESAN, is the same. The project also said, as I told you before, that the model of internal organization that supports it was to be confirmed. And, in relation to the internal organization, the truth is that, according to the advice in some of the inquiries that this parliamentarian has made to her, this organization is perfect: it has not brought any dysfunction, it has not produced any problem, there is total and absolute peace in the Ertzaintza, and, therefore, absolutely nothing has to be changed. And it was not, at least in the previous legislature, to change anything at all. However, the reality is not as idyllic as the Counsellor has often suggested to us. The internal organization has had a lot of response, a lot, and it's still got it. Therefore, from this group we consider that this definition that this organization is perfect does not correspond to reality, that it is clearly better, and that the amendment of the law should not serve to endorse that organization, but precisely to the contrary, to modify it. That is why, Commissioner, from our group we want to ask you a number of questions. Does the amendment of the Police Act seem important to you, yes or no? If you think it's important, why delay it until the second quarter of 2018? Is the reason for this delay that there are going to be changes? And if we would like to be advanced, in that case, what changes are to be made, what part of the previous project is no longer going to be included or will not be in force, what part that did not appear in that project is going to be included now... Are the changes so profound as to justify this delay, and, if so, could they not have been introduced into the law in the process of processing the law, through group amendments? If you consider it important, depending on the answer you give to the first question, do you not think that the presentation of the project could be advanced? Because for some members of the Ertzaintza, for some unions, for some agents, the start of this process of the fifth amendment of the Police Act is important, and they are demanding it. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u140	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u141	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. During the preceding law, the Euskal Police Act, I used to say that this very law at the Security Committee is an advanced section of police officers, and that it is extremely urgent for the efficiency of the General Security Plan of Euskal Police to accept and set up the new law of the Basque Police. He had foreseen it in the previous law, and he had foreseen it also. The government program is precisely received, and it is also planned for the approval of new laws in the calendar. As you said, Mrs Llanos, indeed, and as you have heard me on more than one occasion in connection with this preliminary draft law amending the Fifth Basque Police Act, it must be a positive contribution to the development of the police model we want for Euskadi. An integral police force, in permanent connection with the security needs of Basque society, a changing society also in matters relating to security. A police fully integrated into European security standards and their decision-making and coordinating bodies. This is a matter which, as you know, we have been insistently demanding and which, thanks to the agreement between your party, the People's Party, and the Basque Nationalist Party, has recently been the subject of concrete measures, positive measures. A police force that, adjusted to the criminal reality of every moment, develops preventive policies, in constant adaptation to the emerging risks and new security needs that can be presented to us. What the preliminary draft law has to pursue is a new amendment of the existing law, to implement a series of advances and improvements that allow us to continue to have effective police services; services that contribute adequately to the comprehensive management of the Basque General Public Security Plan. It is therefore a question of continuing to have the police services that best contribute to safeguarding our freedoms, consolidating democratic coexistence, the general well-being of all our citizens, and the security of our mechanisms of solidarity and prosperity. A year ago, as you said, on 26 April exactly, the draft law that came to this Parliament for debate and adoption was passed in the Governing Council. And it is also true that there has been no movement in Parliament. Then you have already transferred your reproaches to me for the delay in the presentation of this law, and also at that time I had occasion to hear you reproaches of a more trade union nature, but the truth is that no movement was made for the processing of the law to prosper, and with the dissolution of the Chamber the law fell. And, therefore, we must restart the path of a new legislature to return to this board, to the board of parliamentary play, to be debated and, if necessary, approved. This law, as you well know, is part of the government program, and is included in the legislative calendar with the scheduled date for its adoption in the second quarter of 2018. And you must also understand that here the text, which collected the will of a monocolor government, must now collect and shape the will of a coalition government, a government formed by the PNV and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. This means at the outset that it must count and will be more likely to leave with a broader consensus and broader parliamentary support, because it must have the parliamentary support of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. These processes you know well and know take your time. Our intention is to approve it, as I said, in the Governing Council within the second quarter of 2018, but, of course, we are also aware that more agreement is needed for its approval. And in this regard I would also like to thank you for the interest you have shown in this law, an important law, in that it regulates one of the first institutions of our self-government, such as the Ertzaintza, the Basque police, and therefore also our interest in making this process as fast as possible. And I wish we could move ahead with those deadlines. In any case, we are on it, we are working, and we will strive to ensure that these deadlines are the precise minimums. Once we refer this bill to Parliament, you will have the opportunity, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, to present your proposals, to discuss them, to improve that bill, no doubt, with your proposals and with the agreements that will be adopted. They will therefore have the opportunity to consider what they consider necessary and what they consider appropriate for discussion and approval. Anyway, we continue to consider that the text that was presented in the last legislature is a good text, and I would like to remind you that throughout the process of processing in the last legislature that preliminary draft already counted with numerous contributions and allegations, from the unions (ErNE, ESAN, Workers' Commissions, UGT, ELA...), also with input from the Association of Mayors of Euskadi, with contributions from the Association of Chiefs of Local Police of Euskadi... Finally, it is a piece of legislation, with which we started, that actually adapts the Basque Police Act of 92, as you recalled, and its subsequent amendments, to the current needs. This is important to stress. It is therefore a question of harmonizing the law with the police model that we want, with the Basque police model that Euskadi needs, a police model that has to be constantly updated. In any case, I insist, we will try at all times to speed up these procedures as much as possible, but be aware also that it is worth reaching that consensus also within the Government itself. And I also believe that this subsequent parliamentary procedure should avoid falling into debates that do not lead us to an eternal return, as it often happens, understanding the importance that all parliamentary groups – you especially – attach to this bill. The text included important topics, as you have recalled, and topics as important to the organization above all, such as career. A horizontal career approach, which allows, among other things, access to the different levels of professional development that are provided for in each of the categories without the need to change jobs. It regulated the specialties in Ertzaintza for tasks that require specific knowledge, and it established, as you have rightly recalled, or established that text, measures for the incorporation of more women into Ertzaintza. The first entry examination of promotion number 26 will be held at the BEC tomorrow, and fortunately the number of women who have applied for such tests has also grown. We're talking 27%. Among other things, in fact, all this is to be contributed by the new law, and in that sense I trust that, at the moment, the time of its parliamentary processing, a rich debate is also generated, I insist, with contributions that speed up its adoption, to count in the minimum possible time, as is our desire and as is our interest, with a new law on Basque police; a legal framework that facilitates the current development of the Ertzaintza and local police, a legal framework that allows better configuration and coordination of the police services that derive from its development. I insist, I appreciate that interest you have shown in this law and your interest in speeding up processing, so I have to understand that... We are going to put everything on our side to get you to this Parliament as soon as possible, and I understand that you will put all your interest in making this parliamentary procedure as quick as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u142	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u143	Thank you again, Madam President. Counselor, if I agree! Of course it was provided for in the previous legislative calendar! It's on this one, it's on the government program, it's on the agenda... What happens is that it was also included in the previous legislature. What this is about is that it goes from those documents to being a reality. And in the last legislature that step from being in the documents to being a reality was made a year later than was foreseen. Let us hope that this time does not happen, of course, because if approval is foreseen in the Governing Council in the second quarter of 2018, as it is delayed a year as it was delayed in the previous legislature, we return to them. We go back to the presentation, so, almost at the end, and then, there won't be time. If we can have very good will, I tell you, in the processing of the law! But it is true that what is not possible is to argue that the passage of the bill requires a path, it requires an item, a series of reports that I can agree with, and that therefore that has to be fulfilled, and then you want to step on the accelerator on what is important – and probably much more important than the drafting of the bill – which is parliamentary processing, because it is this Parliament that has the power to pass that law. Then the debate in this Parliament, which has the power to pass this law, has to be important, and we do not have to be stepping on the accelerator because it is late. Without delay, of course, I agree with you, without unnecessary delay. But, of course, it is with the debate and the discussions and the amendments that are necessary. And I can also agree that you used to have a single-party, single-color government, and now obviously the government is formed by two political parties. I cannot believe that it will take until the second quarter of 2018 the debate with the Socialist Group or with the Socialist Party to see the bill, the changes to be made to the police bill. I can't believe it's so late. I can't believe it's so late... Well, it's true that then all the reports are there, but I don't think the modifications would be so substantial. In addition, in any case, there are different legislative techniques: that the draft is presented as it was and is already agreed through amendments that will modify certain aspects... Because that's the way it is. Because also during the process of law..., it is true that it probably has more consensus than the previous law, but they also need another political party to get the law out, eh!, because the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party do not add up enough votes for themselves to get the law out as it stands in this Parliament. And we from here tell him that we show our will to get that law agreed. It is also true that you have taken and I know that you have collected contributions from those who have said (from local police, from the sheriffs, from different unions...), but it is true that other contributions have not been collected, and that some of them are probably made by amendment, such as professional career. I also recognize the importance of the law, although we probably do not agree with some of the issues, such as the issue of the age of access to Ertzaintza, but it is also true that what we do agree with is that these aspects are regulated legally, because it gives a lot more legal certainty, than not regulated by regulation. That is why it is important that this aspect is taken into account, regardless of whether we then disagree with the specific regulation established by the law. And then, finally, I am not going to take advantage, as you have said, of introducing criticisms to the organization, but it is that those criticisms of how the organization is at this time, the police organization, are not union criticisms, as you have said, I do not bring them here because they can affect the unions. I bring them here, when I have brought those criticisms about the organization – which I am telling you already that today I am not going to refer to them, but that many can maintain them perfectly, because they persist – because they influence the proper functioning of the police, and, as you say, of a police model adapted to the needs that Basques currently have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u144	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u145	Thank you. I repeat to you what I have already said to you before. I know that as far as the assessment of the adequacy of the deadlines is concerned, we are certainly not going to agree, but we also need to be realistic. We can go on forever in the dime-directe. There is a commitment made by this government to bring the law, to pass this bill in the second quarter of 2018. I insist, I thank you for that concern you have shown for the time that you can give us your approval and for the time that you can give us the processing. And you do recognize that these are issues that take your time, but I believe the essential thing is, in this case, to reach agreements, realistic agreements, agreements with a projection of the future; to seek and work out the necessary consensus that will enable final approval. And we're going to do that, we're going to do it now, and we're going to continue in that effort to meet the set deadlines. Because we still consider that the bill presented here in the last legislature, the text of that bill, is a good text, a good bill. A preliminary draft, at the time, amending and adapting the Basque Police Act to the model of police we need, which best responds to the needs of Euskadi. A close police model, committed to the society in which the officers are integrated (by the way, the officers who are in practice now, the 25, who will be integrated into that police model immediately). Well, a police and public safety model that will also involve those people who will be selected from that exam that will start tomorrow at the BEC. A police model to which these more than 3,000 officers of our local police will also belong, and the incorporations that can be made and made in the future. But I believe that, with that interest which I note here, that interest in speeding up deadlines and speeding up procedures to the maximum, we must also be realistic about those deadlines. And hence the forecast set for the second quarter of 2018. I consider, as you have also said, the need to reach agreements. We know, we are aware that with two political parties it is not enough, but logically there is a greater number of votes in favour. And it is true that we will have to seek the support of other political parties, and I am also confident that in this parliamentary process we will be able to discuss and gather contributions that, once discussed, will serve to improve the text that is brought here. I think it is important to integrate the content of the European Code of Police Ethics that we put forward in that text, and I think it is also important to emphasise what we put forward, in the accountability of both the organisation itself and society. You said, and indeed we continue to rely on that commission of good practices of the Basque Police on a permanent basis, and continue to work from the academy also to unify the procedures, for example, for the selection of local police; something that, by the way, is already under way. It is important, from our point of view, to promote such positive action measures that also enable a greater presence of women in the Ertzaintza, and not only that, but also enable a greater and easier promotion, or seek ways for the advancement of women within the organization itself to have greater possibilities. In short, there are many aspects that need to be collected and that make it necessary – I agree with you – to amend this Basque Police Act. The commitment of the government, of the coalition government, the commitment made when adopting the legislative calendar, is that this law can be passed within the second quarter of 2018, but, I insist, we are working to ensure that these procedures are speeded up as quickly as possible and that we can have a police law adapted to the current needs of the organization, as well as the needs and demands of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-19.u146	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four.
