ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u0	Good morning and welcome all of you to the legislature. We'll start the whole meeting. Single point in theme list: "The general discussion of politics, of June 30th, 193rd June 1981, which was planned in article 43 of the Law, and in 193rd of the Parliament's Rule." 195 of the Parliament's rule. the thread of the article will begin in conversation with the President's speech. The meeting will cease until two-thirty in the afternoon, as the assembly of Bopparis has decided. So, you know, the RedMing Head is in the word of the president. Your word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u1	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good-bye and a half. After the management of events in the past few days, seeing that the conflict between Catalonia and the State has reached a certain limit, I thought it necessary to make a specific statement. One. A political conflict with a high social root must have an interview for political solution. The composition, the judicial method, and the means of punishment are by no means remedy. Two. From the point of view of the extreme conflict we must take to the circle of political and institutional dialogue. You need to get him off the blind street to the interview table. Three. From the point of view of political responsibility, it is a fundamental challenge to avoid social or political rupture, both internal and different areas of land and organization. From the point of view of democracy it is a political matter of offering occasion to the right of society and of the people, by the way of consent, to receive them. Four. The departure is to confess the conflict between the wills of the majority of society in Catalonia, in Eucharin, and in the Spanish State, which, as far as the national project is concerned, appear far from each other. Five. It is a democratic choice between the wishes of the Spaniards, the Catalurians, and the majority of the euscal communities to open a political process. The Spanish Government ought to give way to the negotiation of political solutions. The will to the conversation is expressed by very tender gestures. As tender as opening the door of the interview, always with the will. I have always maintained a position of prudence and respect for the path and decisions that Catalan society and institutions have taken. I have defended dialogue and political negotiation as the most appropriate way to find a solution. I have pointed to the Scottish model, to the United Kingdom model, as a reference to combine the principle of legality with the democratic principle. Following the events of the past few days, the way in which the conflict is managed has gone beyond some limits that require an express pronouncement: One. A political conflict with high social roots requires a negotiated political solution. Neither the imposition nor the judicial process, let alone the criminal procedure, is the solution. Two. The conflict over Catalonia must be transferred from a framework of agonistic confrontation to a framework of political and institutional dialogue. It is necessary to take him from the dead end to the dialogue table. Three. The fundamental challenge, from the point of view of political responsibility, is to avoid any form of social or political fracture, whether internal or between different territorial or institutional spheres. From a democratic point of view, responsibility is to articulate consensual mechanisms so that societies and peoples can express their will about their future. Four. The starting point is the recognition of the existence of a conflict between majority social wills, which in terms of their national project are manifested in divergent forms in Catalonia, in Euskadi and in the rest of the Spanish State. Five. I propose to promote a process of political and institutional dialogue that will enable the majority aspirations of Spanish, Catalan and Basque societies to be reconciled democratically. The Spanish Government should open the door to a negotiated political solution. The will to dialogue is demonstrated by very simple gestures, as simple as opening the door to dialogue with the will of understanding and agreement. Not a year ago, September 25th of September 2016, a political diversity and diversity of euphoria in the elections of the Errical Autonomy. He's made his government an interview and an agreement from conviction or need. It's not a new thing; for it's been built in decades by Euskade, by institutions, political parties, and by participation in society. That's our town model. We live a very special moment, and three principles of principle: We must show that we are capable of realism, stability, and agreement. Social realism to show we have feet on the floor. Realism means the knowledge of the problems and necessities of the Basque people in their daily life. Political stability, economic growth, and employment. Organizational consent, cooperation, and concentration to maintain the direction of our decisions. From this point of view I shall proceed to this first discussion of this legislature, considering the international environment and the Basque situation. Your whole speech will be at your disposal. Today I will present a summary. First of all, the international environment view. The economic crisis has conditioned the political, economic and social life of the last decade. We're in a new growth cycle now. However, I'm convinced that we're going to work all over the decade, if we're going to survive the crisis. I'll quote four items of the international agenda: Number one. The next two years will be essential to Europe's future after the brexit negotiations. Europe has to design its future, and, as I advanced to President Jean-Claude Junker and other European authorities, we'll take part in that process. Our wager is to increase political and social Europe in addition to economic. Number two. The new President of the United States has brought a change to the economic policy and foreign policy of the United States. I shall remark a fundamental question: The COP21 agreement on climate change has been suspended. In our politics, however, we will diminish our fluids and bet on the environmental fancillation. Third. We're worried about the world's safety, the tensions rise and international terrorism. The United Nations Organization must assume the leadership to overcome this situation. Fourth. Europe has a serious humanitarian crisis, because the refugees are escaping from war and from poverty. Our commitment is to receive refusions, to agree with humanistic values and solidaritys. We have a clear attitude to these subjects, always in the sphere of the European Union. And so I informed the chairman of the board and other authorities during the meeting in March. Then I'll show you the views on the Basque Department of 2017. I'll start by mentioning the phenomenon. The financial and social situation has improved; the last year's effort helps us to look into the future with a more powerful attitude. We have been hard years, hard years for the whole society, hard years for family and corporations, even for the institutions. This year the growth has been stabled and step by step maintains the employment agency. I'm a realist, we need to create more employment, better quality. I'm a realist, this crisis has left us some permanent differences and poverty bags and we have to keep facing them. I'm a realist, I'm aware that companies are trying to adapt themselves to them and try to create new possibilities. We know there are difficulties. I'm sure the funk will continue to pay attention to the special situation of corporations with difficulty. The crisis has revealed the responsibilities position, the position of solidarity, and the ability to start with the changes necessary to guarantee the future. In order to face the profound crisis that we have lived, society has shown a definite determination, unity, and efficiency. We know all the limitations and difficulties, but he's getting out of the crisis with political, economic, and more social stability. Based on all this, we're at the time of a new speed. Time to invest in the future. To invest the economic and industrial transformation of the Basques in the development of subordinates and the digitalization of society. It's time for a new political press. The reality of Catalonia is near, it seems to me a serious mistake that it did not reach the conflict in the state's territory, the transformation of its model. It cannot be understood that the slowness of the state, the "gent" of politics, is the best, the lack of political enterprises. There's always time to talk, and there's always time for interviews. It must be necessary that the state should change its attitude by the roots, that it may be opened to political conversation, for it is the only possible solution. We've shown that we support the Eukadin dialogue and the deal. After the first legislation of Spain, which has been governed by closeness, and re-establishment, a new stage has been opened. Progress has recovered a part of its scope. We've come forward in the way of the agreement, but the notebooks are still open with the essential issues we're going to have to deal with in the next few months. This is our vision of the situation: we want to add, to collaborate so that Euskadi continues to grow, has greater capacities and resources, is more open and recognized in the world. Our commitment is that, based on the legitimacy of representative democracy, society acquires a greater role and involvement; to grow, to build action from respect, responsibility and the pact. On this basis I propose my intervention, I present the four pillars that structure the governance agenda: human development and social integration; employment and economic recovery; coexistence and human rights; and more and better self-government. They are our pillars in a context of profound transformations. We have gone through a serious economic crisis that has affected the well-being of citizens and social cohesion. We live in a time of change that affects all areas of public policy. We cannot disregard everything that has been created and built so far, nor can we install ourselves in an acrylic accommodation. Self-congratulation is the worst criterion of orientation. It is true that, in the economic and social sphere, certain enterprises in the industrial sector are having serious difficulties in maintaining their activity. It is true that growth is not accompanied by the creation of quality jobs to the extent we would like. It is true that population ageing is affecting the future sustainability of essential health and social protection services. It is true that progress in equity in education must be accompanied by a determined commitment to excellence. It is true that the internationalization of Euskadi will require a greater effort shared by all institutions, companies, universities and entities. It is true that we must step up innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises and tackle with determination the digital transformation of the economy and industry. It is up to us to respond to these challenges that represent the future of Euskadi and symbolize the common good. Achieving this is a shared responsibility between institutions and society. Working together for the common good is the meaning of Auzolan, the spirit of our country. Our model is sustainable human development. The most competitive countries are those with the greatest development and social equality; there is no advanced welfare state without a strong economy that supports it. We allocate two thirds of our operating budget to social policies; it is the basis of our idea. Building a fairer Basque society means being more competitive: we are implementing an effective economic policy, capable of promoting the viability of companies and generating employment, capable of transforming wealth into public policies that guarantee essential services, modernise the country and allow us to invest in the new economic sectors of the future. Our model is social, it's about ensuring human development and cohesion. The first objective of public policies is to guarantee the dignity of people and their essential living conditions. The poverty rate in Euskadi is the lowest in the state, but we have assumed the objective of reducing it by 20% this legislature. Our commitment is to improve management and effectiveness to better care for people who need it most, preserving the Basque system of social protection. Our model promotes sustainable growth and job creation. We will focus on competitiveness by strengthening the actions of Plan 4 I (investment, innovation, internationalisation and industry). Moving forward on sustainable growth means achieving more and better jobs, reducing the unemployment rate below 10% and helping to provide work experience to 20,000 young people. We have approved the new Industrialization Plan; our objective is to ensure that industry reaches 25% of the gross domestic product. Public-private investment in innovation is key to future development, and we have committed an annual growth of 5% of the public budget in innovation. Our model is social, it encourages growth. Our model is transparent and based on collaboration. Access to key Government projects and initiatives through Irekia has been facilitated for citizens. We have approved and published the country's fifteen objectives, government programme, strategic planning, legislative programme, new Economic and Employment Reactivation Framework 2020, 2017 budgets and economic guidelines 2018. This management model aligns with the European Union's 2020 strategy, also with the United Nations agenda, which commits the seventeen sustainable development goals classified in five areas: people, prosperity, the planet, peace and paternality. The Government's 15 strategic plans are integrated into this model. Today ten plans are in place, and five will be adopted this year: coexistence and human rights; governance and public innovation; employment; euskera; and strategic plan for tourism, trade and consumption. The strategy has contrasted with the actors involved in all cases. Today, 165 of the 175 commitments of the government program have actions in progress (i.e. more than 90%). The initiatives under way are 539 out of 655 (over 80%). The Government's legislative programme includes 28 bills; we have adopted four (ports and maritime transport, energy sustainability of the public administration, anti-doping law, and cultural heritage). The aim is to adopt this year's draft law on access to and exercise of the professions of sport. And to this is added the processing of three proposals of law proposed by the groups that support the government: vocational training; transparency and citizen participation; and organization and functioning of the public sector. In addition, last semester Parliament passed the following laws: Amendment of Law 4/2014, establishing the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights; General Budgets of the Community; consolidated text of the Emergency Management Act. The degree of compliance with the Government's legislative programme is above the targets set for the first year. Our model compromises rigour in public management. The Government works with the economic and budgetary framework 2017-2020 as a tool to ensure the essential principles of good governance. The macroeconomic scenario is of moderate growth in the world economy, with risk factors in Europe such as the negative impact of Brexit, electoral processes, interest rates, exchange rate or oil price. In Euskadi we will move from increases in gross domestic product in the environment of 3% to increases of 2.2% by 2020. The scenario in our case is positive for four reasons: it is high growth in relation to the environment; it allows for sustained job creation between 1.9 % of this year and 1.3 % of 2020, when the unemployment rate would be below 10 %; growth will be compatible with an increase in productivity close to 1 %, and the growth model will be balanced, with the power of industry and services. In any case, the budgetary scenario for 2020 is going to be conditioned by the trend of spending and the objectives included in the government programme, also taking into account possible deceleration and stabilization processes. Some programme objectives with budgetary implications should be highlighted: general commitment to maintaining social policies and the quality of services (remember that health and education account for 60 per cent of expenditure); raising innovation expenditure by 5 per cent annually; providing initial work experience to 20,000 young people; population ageing and increased demand for health services; infrastructure renewal in education and health; maintenance of income guarantee income and subjective housing rights; and support policies for families. There is no doubt that the economic and budgetary framework envisages an increase in expenditure. This framework is further affected by the effect of fiscal consolidation (the deficit will be reduced to 0,4 % in 2018 and will be zero in 2020), and in addition the European expenditure rule limits budget availability in terms of investment. In short, the rational, rigorous and adjusted management of public resources will remain essential for the entire period. This necessary condition may not be sufficient, because the sustainability of public policies requires ensuring financial sufficiency in a zero deficit scenario, where expenditure for each financial year cannot exceed revenue. The economic and budgetary framework 2020 defines the government's management model and guides the need to move forward since the agreement. Our model of sustainable human development is social and economic, transparent and collaborative. Our model takes precedence over the deal. Society demands and appreciates the agreements, and the model of the Eucomunion is to give a priority to the agreement. I'll point out one that's of special importance. An agreement on how to update the quapo and the Economy of the Covenant with the Spanish Government. That was stupid. In July the Mist Committee signed these: On the one hand, in order to update the Economy of the Covenant, on the other hand, we made an arrangement on the deck between 2007 and 2021. This agreement guarantees a 15-year-old financial peace. Besides the economic importance of this agreement, I want to remark political significance, it's refectional in what's planning a new relationship with the state Euracdi. The difference of relation, based on mutual respect and knowledge, is the key of the Euscal auto-beron. The system of the treaty unites in one historical significance and practical efficiency. After the forum-abolation, it connects us with a portion of our original independence, and preserves us as a useful and remative system. The Economic concert is the key to our autogony. It offers a strong foundation to build a new model of relation to the state, and even in the sphere of politics and jurisdictions. This system includes: Number one. The treatyship between Eukadi and the State. Both the Concerts and the Navarre treaty have a connection with our own historical rights and fortunes. He acknowledges the power of governing himself to the land of Esscal. It's the one-sided one, i.e. you can't change the one side. Number two. He has a legal character both in the State and in Europe. The treaty introduces almost a confessional in the tax and finance. Third. To the nature of solidarity and co-ordination. The concert system places a separate relationship between Euskade and the State. This peculiar relation has no privileges, because it took a one-sided risk from Euskaca. Fourth. A system of difference and mutual guarantees. The treaty has established rules or rules of mechanism to solve conflicts. They are effective tools, and offer a system for support of the treaty obtained. The treaty, legality, solidarity, and impartiality, are supported by the Economics Concertical Concern, as the keystone of our self-organization. In my opinion, treaties, legalities, alliances, and differences give us occasion to consider the relations of the Basques and the State. I will return to this subject in the last part of my essay. I've made our example this far. Now, I'm going to go and do what I did in the past ten months. As reference, and without intending to mention everything, I shall mention the most remarkable initiative. Economy and employment. It may be remarked that the approval of the new 2020 scope program is: It has the total number of 8.800 million euros and has taken the purpose of lowering the rate of unemployment by 10%. They're on duty to action plan and industry plan, investment 1,225 million dollars. It is obvious that the recovery of industry, as well as the development of production indexes, is due to the development of the wallet and exports. We're moving all the measures to help the real economy. We have made an investment of 84 million in the Enforcement Program to encourage and aid their corporate conversion in poor regions, and to help small and middle-class companies out of business. In the first sector, we've accepted assistance for the transforming and marketing projects, and also to promote employment in the countryside. We've managed to get one of EI F Good's International Partucerations from Euskka. I also want to stress support in improving tourist competitiveness, and modernize corporate programs. In direct connection with the Building, 100 million euros to the preparation programs of people in unemployment, to promote employment for people who have some kind of disabilities, to work, to work, to work, and to young people's jobs. In public business, we have accepted the new 4,375 Squares, called by public offers, to improve health, education and security services. We've started a plan for inspection, and we've made this commitment. reviewing contracts with partial signed jobs. In the quality of the intellect, the table for the social conversation is considered a fundamental goal, because it has made the first meeting in this legislation. Internationalization and innovation. We've opened a new SPI office in London and started the Brexit Board with other organizations and economic operators. We're starting the Cyberecurity Center and it's going to become an operational reality next year. We have agreed with the Spanish Government that the ESS Bilbao will participate in the European Union of the Sub-Protractal Research. We put 164 million euros in RIS3 intelligent programmes. Subjugates. The third line of Bilbo's subway has started. We have signed agreements for determining capital access to the works of a high-speed train with the Spanish Government. We renew our commitment to environment and patience. Among the principal works against the floods, the Gobelas and the first phase of the Riverland are finished; the second stage will be carried on between the ferns and the Galdas. and the second stage will take place in Martute, and the Kadagua has also begun to cross the river. They're doing the works of the Mundaian Sound and it's finished. We signed a plot for hydraulic substructure with the Aradic Fordunda, an investment of $74 million euros. In the engagement which forms social policies, I shall remark: In the health service, the University Hospital for the U.A. and the new site at the Basurto Hospital with $65 million investments. We've opened new services at the Urduli Hospital, and even the medical centers of Kanpezu and Amreadu. We've created the Bioraba Medical Research Institute and the Mom's Euskal Bank. We've invested 254 million in education to improve substructures in Besheain, Ait, Legion, or Advice. We've opened up new science structures in Gastename and Leiia. We've agreed to the university's company 2020 Agendas with these goals: to transfer knowledge, to prepare human capital, and to encourage it to work with the students. We've put hundreds of new specialization programs on the career team. 176 million euros have been directed to the schools, to the educational education, to the programmes of innovation and continual preparation, or to services. The betting on public education is the priority. We've started a joint process to get a new education union. We've made a bet on equity and excellence. Social support. We've presented a proposition of the grounds for improving the rent to ensure the income. I think it's just fun to put 14 million each year in order to start the social service bag, because the Finance Council created it. 95 million euros have been designed to promote the activities of the third sector, to pay attention to the state of social distress, to support the families with children, to support their labor and their family in union, to the productions of equality and to aid the bichtimes of the strength of the genus. Collaboration. We've accepted 40 million euros and IV. This is the process of accepting a direct plan, with the intent to renew policies for development and collaboration. Equality. The principle of equality is that we consider the plan and the preference to any kind of sexual event. There's equality in our shared commitment. Security. The agreement obtained with the Spanish Government has been very important within the Security Committee: The planile of the edge has been established, composed of eight thousand edges, and the growth of generation has been enabled. Thanks to this two-way agreement, we could make a call for 300 new squares, and we'll make a call for 300 more before the year's over. The agreement with the Security Committee makes it easier for you to enter the border when it is called an anti-organized intelligence center and access to the European databases. We are bargaining with the criteria for the full information of SENSIO's information, as well as with the Europol Unit. Justice. We have accepted the support of 14 million euros in order that people who are in a particularly weak condition should have a judgment for justice. As to the function of justice and attention, it is our object to place the victim as the hero of the penal process, to restore the execution and execution of all its rights. Cultural and euscipation. We've signed a contract to cooperate in the politics of language with the Navarro and the Northerners. We share an engagement to encourage and normalize the use of a Basque. We've agreed to an investment of 22 million euros to make Eukadin culture. We have strengthened the wager for the creation and the culture industry as the axis of the growth of our country, as well from the inner view as from the international view. We invested 66 million euros in the housing policy. A great impulse has been given to the public hire of excessive prices, and to promote the new apartment by means of the programme of the survival program. We've been pushing it through the rehabilitation of buildings and town-newing and -returning program Renove. We're working on the rule of the subjective right to the housing and the inspection of the buildings, the rules, the rules, and the rules, to force them into it this year. In public government, we have formed the Council of Public Regional Policy. We have made an agreement with the Spanish Government, that no means, no appeals should be presented to the local law of local local institutions. In like manner, after seven years, we have concluded with the Spanish Government, in order to have this information in our power: The finances for the common security firms and the departments of business. In conclusion, we've signed the city contract here in Gaste, with the mayor's commitment to making a $40 million investment. These are the main facts of the government in ten months of the legislature. We're a government in action. In summary, the basis of the programme and strategic planning is under way, and the legislative programme is being implemented above expectations. Support programmes and measures launched exceed EUR 1 billion. The agreements with the Spanish Government in the Joint Concert Commission and the Security Board have meant a recognition of the uniqueness of our self-government and bilaterality. I have presented the model of sustainable human development, I have summarized the main facts of the Government. I now refer to our priorities, the response to the global challenges I raised in the investment debate. Priority one, education. We have launched a participatory reflection process to reach an agreement that structures and strengthens the stability and quality of education, ensuring equity and advancing towards excellence. We promote policies that integrate quality. We bet on the culture of evaluation, innovation and research. We give priority to the formation of the educational community. We advance in the plan of improvement with the extension of plurilingualism or comprehensive education, with the Basque as central axis vehicle. We have strengthened our dual vocational training model in relation to the company and extended it to the university. I recognize the problems: we have made progress in equity, we have to improve in excellence. Our challenge is to achieve results consistent with the economic effort we make. Two, demographic challenge and youth bet. We have approved the new housing policy and the youth employment programme. We have expanded family and birth support, reconciliation programmes, education from 0 to 3, or care for the elderly. We have defined the policy of integration of immigration, working with outlaws, Eudel and the third sector. We proceed to the renewal and rejuvenation of staff in the public administration. I recognize the problems: we have much to make progress on all the measures envisaged in the Strategic Plan for Children and Families. Three, innovation and digitisation. We have adopted the smart specialization strategy RIS3. We have approved the industrialization plan, as well as the investment attraction and innovation programme. I highlight the expansion of the Bizkaia Technology Park on the Left Margen. I recognize the problems: we have to make progress in supporting the real economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in supporting innovation, internationalisation and investment. We need to shift growth to a higher generation of quality jobs, reduce job insecurity, especially among young people, women or working people incorporated after the labour reform. Priority four, internationalization of Basque Country. We encourage the promotion of Euskadi as a tourist and cultural attraction. We are updating the Basque Country 2020 strategy, which we will present at the beginning of the year, with these seven priorities: Euroregion Aquitaine-Euskadi, a project that grows with the incorporation of Navarre and the new Aquitaine, as well as the creation of the first territorial institution in Iparralde. Basque vision on the future of the European Union, a document committed to the working meeting held with President Jean-Claude Juncker and which interferes with the objective of a more social and democratic Europe. Euskadi's own presence in seventy-six countries of the world. Network of six strategic partners in the territories of future opportunity for Euskadi. Participation in seventy-five international networks. Social Basque Global Network with the aim of projecting Euskadi in the world, reinforcing the participation of the Basque etxeak. Basque Country 2030 Agenda for the implementation of the seventeen United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in Euskadi. I recognize the problems: to gain an external dimension requires greater internal coordination, combining efforts of External Action, SPRI, Basquetour or Etxepare Institute, institutionally, in the consortium of internationalization, with economic agents, companies, universities, technological centres, chambers of commerce and public institutions. A small country needs more shared work, more Auzolan, to grow on the global stage. Education, rejuvenation, digitization, internationalization, this is the engine of a Euskadi that wants to grow. We have passed the toughest phase of crisis and recession; since March 2013 Euskadi has been growing and gradually creating employment. It is fifty-three months with saw teeth, but in positive trend. We keep the growth forecast for this year at around 3%. Employment creation is progressing, and in the second quarter employment in terms of equivalent jobs has increased by 2.2%. The unemployment rate is 11 %, three points less than the previous year. Are we on the right track? Yeah, but we don't settle. It is up to us to maintain this course, to ensure a scenario of stability and certainty, to concentrate the effort and to collaborate. We have the opportunity to give new impetus to the Basque economy and to recover all the jobs lost during the crisis. This is the priority of the country and this is the priority of the Government: more and better employment. This is the first two columns which structure our program: human development and social integration, and employment and economic recovery. I shall now take the third column's view: partnership and human rights. Then I'll end up with a political view of the future of the automatically. Coincidence and human rights. We just emerged from a dark, traumatic period of violence and terrorism after some decades. There are many wounds left of suffering and injustice, which have not yet been healed. On the other hand, in the globalized world, XXI. the new calendar of the subject affairs has been created: the state of refugees, migrations, religion, and culture, new distinctions and forms of injustice, international terrorism, or war. These are the issues that develops the news of partnership and Human Rights at the 2020 Strague Plan. We want to maintain the course of our strategy, because the plan of previous peace and partnership has been a very useful tool. We are a generation known to peace, and our labour is to secure our co-existence to come. The Recent Project has the following precedents: In the name of Red Beetle, it's an expression of a victims' autochick. The performances I'd like to hear from victims. On the 20th of February, for the victims of police competition, the 11th of March for the victims of terrorism, and May 14th, for the victims of Fancism. In these proceedings, for the first time, all the groups of the legislature have participated. To go forward on the way of making legal confession to all victims, with the approval of the law of confession to the victims, which had hitherto ceased to be protected. Adventures to a new policy of social society, and to promote self-critic processes. It's obvious that it's important that the law of the 8th of April, that it's permanently and unconditionally disarmed, shouldn't be given up by the 8th of April. Armlessing has been a very important step, absolutely necessary, and during the process of undoing and disappearing forever. It must be acknowledged that the government of France had a right to disarm, and the position which the Spanish Government kept. Remember, starting high school is a landmark. It is the result of a variety of interactions which should be appreciated and confessed. Here's a note that shows how valuable the work of Eucharin is: On June 1th, after having once been with other high authorities, I had the opportunity to join Juan Manuel Santos the President of Colombia and other managers. For the government of Colombia, our experiences are very valuable; the idea of education for peace, of police, of police, of victims, of social society, of autocracy, of social education, and of culture for human rights. I wish to remark the commitment to the observation of truth, of justice, and of all the victims. Looking into the future doesn't mean we should forget the memory of the victims and the honor of the past. Our program assures us that all victims deserve a confession and observation. On June 26th, we filed a report coming out of the Amancture, from 1960 to 1978 to make the statement and observation of police abuse. Thanks to this job, the 174 victim has made the statement and attention they deserved. This decree was admitted in 2012, and its management shows the legality and compliance of the new law which this legislature has adopted from 1978 to 1999. We're working for the Spanish Government to remove the appeal against this law. Prison policy. The report presented to President Mariano Rajoy of Spain, the prison policy, and the new social situation in order to be taken care of. The proposal develops its programmes in word and law. Their object is to revolutionize the legal and banana ways. We must mark the decision that had been announced in July by the prisoners. They accept legal and individual paths, which spreads a field of opportunity. The commitment to our government program is to promote prison policy based on these four legal principles: individualization, humanity, the confession of the caused injury, and the re-enjoyment of society. We plan to penetrate into the line of the primer justice in Europe and to end the policy of evading the prisoners. This separation has only two consequences, both bad ones; the suffering which families suffer, and the disreputation which is produced in the social life of the Basques, in the political and in the institutional order. I share a hopeful look at solidarity with the victims of terrorism. On 10 March, on the eve of the European Day of Victims of Terrorism, the Basque Government convened a concentration in which social, political and institutional representations took part to express solidarity with the victims of terrorism. This act is an unprecedented manifestation of unity, because all parliamentary groups took an active part in it. Basque society is moving forward, and this unity is a source of hope. With this hopeful look we face the plan of coexistence and human rights. The Governing Council will approve it after having received 10 documents with input from parliamentary groups and associations. We have considered twenty-six proposals and incorporated sixty-three inputs into the starting document. I propose an invitation to share its seven strategic challenges: the orderly end of violence and terrorism; the next step will be the effective and definitive unilateral dissolution of ETA, an express objective of our government program that in what is in our hands we will favour, because it is a social requirement and a necessity for coexistence; clarification of the past that serves to know the reality and impact of terrorism and violence; public policies of victims so that they all feel cared for and recognized, Gogora Institute as a space to share public policies of memory; normalize and pacify penal policy and of reintegration, in accordance with the legal principles; project of human rights education, oriented towards commitment to peace, diversity and solidarity, and promotion of a culture of coexistence, solidarity, cooperation and human rights in line with the United Nations 2030 agenda. All parliamentary groups can share these challenges and exemplify before citizens the social encounter for the coexistence that we advocate. I plan to apply the will for dialogue and the spirit of agreement demonstrated in the Gogora Institute to the memory and coexistence of this Parliament. Dialogue and agreement are the most important strategic choice in the field of coexistence. Promoting this culture of coexistence requires a critical memory of what has happened, and I am aware of our institutional responsibility. In this sense, on 30 September I will participate with the president of Navarre, Uxue Barkos, in an act of recognition to the Basque citizens confined in the Gurs concentration camp during the Civil War. The recovery of the list of persons detained there has been possible thanks to the Government's commitment in the exile of Lehendakari Agirre. This brings together a line of commitment to freedom, democracy and human rights from the first Basque Government to the present day, a shared commitment to which we continue today. I conclude this paragraph by referring to international terrorism on religious grounds. Recent attacks in Catalonia have increased concern about this threat. In June, I proposed the creation of a working group with the participation of the Departments of Security; Employment and Social Policy; Education; Justice and Labour; and the General Secretariat for Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation. Our approach is based on some assumptions that shape the diagnosis: to recognize the enormous complexity of the threat, to accept that there is no infallible strategy, and to assume that the response to the threat must be international. The President of the Commission himself raised last week the need for a European coordination unit for police intelligence and security services. Not everything is in our hand, but we must do everything in our hand. The Basque Government works to respond to this threat from four areas: prevention of the violent radicalization of our community, police response, intercultural and interreligious integration in society, and contribution to international efforts. The framework document that we are drawing up and which we are presenting in this Parliament will develop an action plan on these four axes. Our mission is to strengthen the culture of peace and coexistence in Euskadi. It is necessary to elevate the legacy of cultural capital to the highest category of shared value. Living together is living with. Today, 21 September, today, the International Day of Peace, sponsored by the United Nations General Assembly, is celebrated. This year's motto is "Together for Peace: Respect, Security and Dignity for All." I make my own the words of the Secretary General of the United Nations on this day, and I quote: "In times of insecurity, communities of different appearance become scapegoats. We must resist the cynicism that divides communities and presents our neighbors as 'the others'. Together, let us address intolerance and defend human rights. Let us build bridges, let us turn fear into hope." So far the date. This is the strategic challenge of coexistence for Basque and European society in the coming times: living together in peace, being free together. The last part of this intervention addresses the fourth pillar, the vision of the future of Basque self-government. This issue is being shared by all groups in the self-government presentation. I structure my intervention by taking as a reference the commitments made in our government program. The first commitment is to advance the full implementation of the Gernika Statute. We have adopted an updated report on non-transferred competences, a detailed report updating the so-called 1993 Zubia Report, completed in 1995 and 2001 with the report on priorities, all approved by this Parliament. This report is presented in four blocks. First, transfers made between 1994 and 2011. In particular, there have been thirty-five transfers in these eighteen years, the most relevant relating to the administration of justice, motorways, scientific research and innovation, or public employment service. The second block, five transfers that were listed as outstanding and are updated due to changes in the legal-economic reality or the impact of European Union policies. Thirdly, six new proposals for partial transfers or for new realities. And fourth block, updated list of pending transfers, with thirty-one subjects. The work carried out is aimed at achieving full compliance with the Gernika Statute. It is a question of lighting up a favourable position in order to achieve the thirty-seven outstanding transfers, which must be negotiated and agreed in the Joint Transfer Committee. Our Government has declared and demonstrated a willingness for negotiation and agreement; we expect a reciprocal attitude on the part of the Spanish Government. The path of bilaterality, reactivated in the Joint Concert Commission and the Security Board, is the path that can enable us to settle the statutory litigation and complete the thirty-seven pending transfers, after thirty-seven years of non-compliance. The second commitment of the government programme is the achievement of a new legal-political framework for Euskadi. Our Government will maintain the attitude of facilitating progress in the work of the paper. More specifically, we express our readiness, as we say in the text, to "agree with the greatest consensus an open but concrete formulation of the bases and principles for the reform and updating of self-government". This document of bases and principles should serve as a starting point for the drafting of the joint text of a new political proposal for the future for Euskadi. In relation to this commitment, I assume, as lehendakari, the premise that the ideal of self-government is in harmony and coexistence between different identities, on the basis of respect and mutual recognition. I repeat the premise: the ideal of self-government is found in harmony and coexistence between different identities, on the basis of respect and mutual recognition. Since the launch of the paper, I have been called upon to take a stand on various occasions in relation to the future of self-government. I have always been proactive and at the same time respectful of the work of the paper, and I will continue to be. I am aware that self-government is our common good. It unites us with its contribution to well-being, economic growth, social justice and equity; it unites us with the will to strengthen our people, to achieve a higher quality of life for a society that we want to be responsible and protagonist of their future. Today, with the aim of helping to promote maximum consensus, and consistent with the premise expressed, I raise, as lehendakari, five reflections aimed at parliamentary representation, in order to facilitate the development and progress of its work: to place the question of Basque self-government in the political sphere of the European Union; to analyse the recognition of Basque as a nation and the consideration of historical rights as a constituent power; to offer ways of extending self-government and moving towards a new status; to establish the concept of bilaterality and its effective implementation; and to have a precise decision-making capacity in the field of the State, the European Union and international action. Reiterating my willingness to contribute to the work of the paper, I set out my first reflection: to place Euskadi on the European horizon. The united Europe was, since its foundation, the political project to build a federation of nations and peoples around a shared project. Today, the demand for greater recognition and participation of regions, cities and non-state nations is a general trend. Political and decision-making must be transferred to the peoples and nations that integrate European diversity; it is key to vertebrate the European project and connect it with citizens in an upward process. In this new scenario, it would be necessary to set up a structure based on the principle of subsidiarity that allows for a division of competences and also of sovereignty. To advance in a model capable of uniting the positive elements of confederal and federal models, which limits the exclusivity of the nation-state both internally and internationally. This path could also open up a constructive alternative to the inevitable reform of the State model, which must start from the assumption of its own plurinational reality. In this sense, it is important to remember that our government program contemplates that the autonomous model in force in the Spanish state needs a reformulation. Second reflection, Euskadi's recognition as a nation and consideration of historical rights as a constituent power. Euskadi is a community with its own national identity, from a historical, political and institutional perspective as well as cultural. Euskadi is a political nation in a decentralized, plurinational state. Based on this recognition, it is necessary to clarify the scope of the political power of each national community. The State has the obligation and the need to seek a political solution to the legitimate national aspirations of Euskadi and Catalonia. There's no other way. Euskadi has a specific legitimacy, expressly recognized in the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. It is the case of Navarra, and of Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. To this legitimacy must be added the single additional provision of the Statute of Gernika. The Constitutional Court itself has established the importance and scope of historical rights. This legitimacy has two consequences: in principle, Euskadi is undoubtedly a national reality of its own; in the field of political power, Euskadi is legitimated to agree a bilateral pact with the State that will establish and guarantee its powers and powers. We are a nation, and we are still in the process of national construction. Euskadi and the Basque territories have their own national will; that is, the will of a differentiated political project, which does not fully coincide with that proposed by certain areas of State representation. Historical rights are one of the elements that have helped to shape the sense of the Basque nation; they are a unique and legitimizing element of our constituent power. In coherence, the new status would be the legal-political expression of a historical national identity with a desire to survive, an updated institutional expression of a collective identity that was already manifested in 1936 and 1979, and which now reiterates its vocation to renew itself also as a meeting point of society with its constitutive plurality. Third reflection, ways of expanding self-government and the new status. We start from the recognition of the uniqueness of Euskadi with two references: the first additional provision of the Constitution, which requires an up-to-date reading based on mutual trust, and the single additional provision of the Statute, which states that the acceptance of the autonomy regime established by the Statute does not imply a waiver by the Basque people of the rights which, as such, could have corresponded to it by virtue of its history, which may be updated in accordance with the legal order. I continue to advocate the institutionalization of the right of citizenship to be consulted on its future in a legal and agreed manner, combining the democratic principle and the principle of legality. I believe that it is necessary to establish legal channels so that political communities that, by express and clear decision of their parliamentary institutions of self-government, wish to consult citizens about their future can do so with full guarantees. I would like to recall that, in my view, the great challenge today is to achieve a plural and solid consensus on a great project of self-government. I propose the possibility of agreeing a new political pact expressing our own and differentiated nationality, such as the first article of the Statute of Gernika. The new pact would be justified in the desire to have the highest levels of self-government, better instruments to develop our personality and respond effectively to the global challenges of the country, among which I highlight a social economy with a human face. The new framework should lead to a renewal and strengthening of the agreed nature of our political institutions. There is no pact without a reciprocal system of guarantees, so that the interpretation and fulfilment of the agreed terms is not left to the discretion of one of the parties. Fourth reflection, bias and remunerative application. In the first part, as I have said, the Economic Covenant has shown, that it is the way to a speciall and effectual relation between Euchardi and the State. It is a positive historical experience, which can be an example to extend itself to the sphere of political relations. The economic and political treaty would be the two principal columns of the new state of auto-gourage. These two columns considered, it would be necessary that special contrivances should be made to rectify the differences of jurisdiction by bias and agreement. Besides the establishment of preventive mechanism, it would be proper, for instance, to make a couple of forums of arbitration, a committee to guarantee the state. The goal would be to update the auto-engine and renew our jurisdictions: To strengthen the field of power, which has not yet been established to the members of the community, and to increase the jurisdiction of the public power, which has already been acknowledged and transmitted to us, and which is acknowledged by the State of Eukadi. By this means, our own jurisdictions may be organized in five different areas: Jurisdictions that reflect the peculiarity of the Basques: a culture of euccany and eascal, a civil law, a regulation of the Economic Concertation, and an organizational organisation. A set of exclusive rights based on the standard tradition. He includes the system of public employments, the bordering, and the administration of justice; in which case the union of judicial power, and the privilege of the Supreme Court, are limited to a doctrine. The vast number of privileges which they acknowledge to the Eucharistic institutions of nature, and to the sub-relations of their country. A set of meetings and social protections and system powers together. The essential reason for this is the system of social operators from Euskka. An association relating to the legal and relations of public administrations. In this frame, it would be necessary to acknowledge the power of our fellow-citizens in order to organize the Administration of Justice and its own judicial system. Fifth deliberation, a certain ability to determine in the state, European Union, and international territory. According to the regulations in the European Council, he ought to have a proper tool for co-operation with robbers, Zubera, Lower Navarre, and the Navarre Community of Navarre. That is to say, with the land of the eucaia. The update of the Auto-gourage should allow the delegation from Euka to be in European Union and international institutions. In the European frame, it should be allowed to participate in the international agreements which make Euskakia share in his own hands. The chance to make our two-way deals and share in the European institutions. And also to control the principles of subsidy and proportionality by the representation system of the jurisdiction of President Junker. In fine, it would be a privilege to promote the American social institutions, culture, and sports, in order to complete the integration of the institutions of the nation. So far the five reflections I share to help advance the goal of consensus on the basis and principles for the reform and updating of self-government. Pact and democracy underpin the political organization of Euskadi. I appeal to focus the effort on our own path. The Basque track is based on the legitimizing element of historical rights, which must be claimed and strengthened together in order to further advance the national and social construction of Euskadi. This objective can be achieved with a pact agreement that assumes the concept of cosovereignty or shared sovereignty and is based on competencies, ability to make, financial sufficiency, resources to make, and bilaterality, not to interfere and compromise to compromise. I plan to reflect on a new status of self-government that recognizes the uniqueness of the Basque nation and extends the experience of fiscal and financial concertation to the political relationship, including an effective system of guarantees for compliance with the covenant. Economic concert and political concert are two pillars that allow to fill the maximum content, and at the highest level, the effective powers of Euskadi with all guarantees. I put in place a pact agreement that involves the recognition of the national reality of its own and the assumption of the multi-nationality of the State. I consider it necessary to make progress in the legal-political, as well as social and cultural, recognition of the Basque, Catalan and Galician national realities, in addition to the Spanish one. I consider it necessary to adapt this recognition within the framework of a Europe that bases its union on respect for the various peoples and cultures that make up it; a Europe of multilevel, more social and also more democratic governance. Advancing in a political decision advises assuming plurinational culture, facing with a constructive vision the redistribution of the sovereignty of the State, and favoring the defence of the identity of their respective peoples. The exit of the territorial political labyrinth is on the horizon of the confederal state. I'm done. I have started my speech by appealing to the values of realism, stability and consensus. At the beginning of this political course we have the opportunity to combine these values in relation to five fundamental issues: One, draft budgets 2018. We are drawing up the preliminary draft with three references: economic-budgetary guidelines, revenue forecasts of the Finance Council, and new fiscal policy. In this regard, we have contributed to the assessment of fiscal reform; it is now up to the parties to open a political negotiation for the General Councils to approve the new measures. Our position is to maintain a balance in the twofold objective of ensuring the sustainability of public policies and the need to reactivate the economy and generate quality jobs. Adopting the budget requires more support than the parties that support the Government themselves. Our readiness is open to dialogue and negotiation with all groups. Two, income-guarantee reform and Basque social protection system. For almost three decades this has been the instrument that has demonstrated the solidarity of Basque citizens and strengthened our cohesion. The Government has put forward 20 measures in this Parliament to improve management and ensure the sustainability of income-guarantee income. The aim is to improve the living conditions of the most needy and to promote the ultimate end of aid, i.e. to facilitate the employability of people of working age. It is up to us to apply realism and stability to give the system a higher level of control and efficiency. It is up to us to strengthen the institutional and political consensus to preserve the Basque system of social protection as a whole. Three, formation. We have opened a participatory process to reach an agreement for education, with the aim of strengthening the stability and quality of education by promoting its modernization. We have signed the university-enterprise agreement, with the commitment to extend dual training in both vocational training and university. We will promote the university system on the principles of self-requirement, effectiveness and co-responsibility. We work in collaboration with the business fabric to facilitate an initial work experience for 20,000 young people. The integration of youth into work is a priority that requires the cooperation of economic and social actors. Fourth, co-existence plan and human rights 2020. We will open a new stage based on the orderly end of violence and terrorism. We will give priority to public policies of care and recognition to victims. We intend to standardize prison policy. The Gogora Institute has been a model of consensual action since its creation; our proposal is to extend to the relationship between all groups this model that prioritizes the objective of advancing in the social encounter for coexistence. Five, move towards full compliance with the Statute and update self-government. Our aim is to open a dialogue and negotiation table with the Spanish Government on statutory compliance. We need parliamentary, political and social support. I call for an agreement between all the groups allowing us to complete the Statute of Gernika. I also call for priority to be given to consensus in the elaboration of the bases and principles for the reform and updating of self-government. The internal agreement, the bilateral relationship framework and the recognition of the plurinational reality of the State set the stage for demonstrating political capacity to agree on a new status of self-government. They're founded on our project. We are aware of the challenges and difficulties which the present society has before it. We have the whole belief that society and the vice of institutions are the hero of a nation composed of the leading characters, who have been built up from below in a society of society and of society. That's the way, that's the attitude. I repeat: the word agreement is the key. We look to the future and the future, and look at it with the powers of attaining its objects from Euskaca; The unemployment is less than 10%, the violence and terrorism and the stage is permanently closed, and the update of the self-organization and the taking and growing up in the world as a Basque Country. I take a positive look at our people. I said in my excitement that I was proud of the last years of the crisis in the euscal society. It's been a hard, hard way, too long and it's over, it's not over yet. I said, too, that I began this new stage with illusions. I'm holding on to this illusion. It's bigger now, when I see Euskakia advancing on step by step, and we're able to move forward, always doing this way together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u2	Thank you. Please. Thank you, Mr. President. The whole meeting stops at this moment until 14:30 a.m. It was ten-nine in the morning. At two o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-two o'clock the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u3	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. We're going to the group shift from the small to the big one. The spokesman of the Potion team, Mr Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Basque politics, like that of many other places in the world, today faces the challenge of populist movements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u5	Please, please come down... You know it's forbidden to leave banners. Today is the day of political surrenders, but down here. Number one. Please come down. Second warning. Please. Go on, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I recognize the welcome they give me and the appreciation they show for my group, but, as I told you, we are indeed faced with the challenge of radical and populist movements, which are in this very House. I told him this from this rostrum, and I explained to him that the dividing line today is no longer so much between nationalists and non-nationalists, that on the other hand they are sharing government, but in the line that separates those who want to defend western representative democracy as we have built it, and the populists and radicals. And that, in our view, obliges his Government to make a clear choice as to the place it wants to occupy and the support it wants to seek. There are groups in this House that aspire to liquidate the regime of rights and freedoms and the frameworks of coexistence that we have given ourselves since the transition. Both of them therefore come together in the same intention, on a dangerous shared basis, because they are both unique interpreters and bearers of a popular will that they consider above the law, the law and the minimum democratic guarantees. I will tell you that this is the main reason why we have been supporting your Government. We believe that together, above legitimate differences, we can contribute to making Euskadi a more open and prosperous society every day, a society of free and equal citizens in rights and duties, where people of different origin, language, condition or sense of identity can coexist. Moreover, it is only possible to compete and win the challenges of the future in economic, social and cultural terms when plurality, diversity and difference are guaranteed, and systems are set up to protect citizens from abuse of power and arbitrariness. For us the difference does not lead to separation, but to a coexistence based on respect, which seeks shared objectives and uses dialogue as a method of work, and therefore its first obligation as lehendakari is to defend plurality and combat populism, naturally defending the principle of legality and the rules of law. Consider what is happening in Catalonia: a radicalized faction seeks the secession of that community by bypassing the law and all democratic guarantees. They invoke a non-existent social majority, on behalf of whose will they want to impose a project that excludes from coexistence all those who do not think or feel like them. They obtained the majority in the number of seats, not of votes, and they have used it to overstep the rights of Members of Parliament, to breach their own laws and regulations, to dispense in any democratic way, to pass laws that repeal the Constitution and its Statute of Autonomy, and to convene a referendum that eliminates from a pen national sovereignty and the right of all Spaniards to decide what they want their country to be. They have divided Catalan society, and it has plunged it into chaos and uncertainty. You will understand that this issue, which in the rest of Spain concerns all those who do not understand our country without Catalonia, or that a part can decide for the whole, in the Basque Country causes us even more discouragement. We know in Euskadi about the consequences of rupturist projects, which have divided and faced society. We know that sovereignistic adventures do not lead to a society of citizens who are freer or with more rights, but more slaves of an identity reality that invades and pollutes everything. Today in Catalonia the institutions have been perverted to put them at the service of a cause that separates it from democracy, that violates our legality and that breaks our model of coexistence. Faced with this democratic outrage at first we saw you shy, Mr Urkullu, but at last acknowledged that the illegal referendum in Catalonia did not meet the right guarantees. After this gesture of respect for the rules of the democratic game, we trusted that, in that logic, he would support the Spanish Government in all its initiatives to guarantee democracy. The problem is that their party mates had already travelled to Barcelona by then and had been wrapped in the stellate. Even after that declaration of principles, a delegation of the highest level of the Basque Nationalist Party shared, together with Otegi, a demonstration of support for the illegal referendum, legitimizing a process that departs from our constitutional order. Look, the rule of law has acted, as it could not otherwise, to replenish the lawfulness broken in Catalonia and to guarantee democracy and freedoms. And you, your party, have reacted by closing ranks with the most radical, against the actions of judges and prosecutors. In recent weeks members of his party spend more time sharing banners with Bildu, Podemos, Esquerra Republicana and CUP than any other activity. By the way, not a single mention of mayors and councillors who are subjected to intolerable threats to comply with the law. Where can you get to, lehendakari, with such fellow travellers? Had you not presented yourselves – and I trust that that remains your will – as a guarantee of moderation in the face of radical impulses? Today, in this rostrum, you invoke the need for dialogue and negotiation, and I would like to say that dialogue is what has been offered patiently and repeatedly, until through the facts, and by violating democracy, those responsible for Catalan institutions have launched themselves into the final breakup. That was his answer. His only offer of dialogue is that his nonsense be accepted, that the President of the Government abandon his obligations, and that the powers of the State be humiliated in his impositions. You will understand that freedom is not negotiated, that democracy cannot be negotiated, nor the obligation to comply with and enforce laws. In a State governed by law, a person who commits an offence bears the consequences of his acts, and is liable to a penalty, that is, with all judicial guarantees. The only way, therefore, is for them to step back, return to democratic wisdom, deconvert the referendum, and then we can talk about everything that is possible to talk about in democracy, within the channels of the law. In the meantime, the important thing is to guarantee the rights of the citizens of Catalonia and of the Spanish as a whole. This is what worries me: that at the decisive moment, when you have to choose, you choose to stand on the side of the most intransigent, together with those who intend to liquidate our system of freedoms. And this is what I ask you not to do, because that attitude would constitute a risk to consolidate what we have been building in recent times through fruitful dialogue, and because that is the main threat to coexistence, also in the Basque Country. You know better than anyone the will for dialogue of the Spanish Government and the People's Party. Moreover, you are the living proof of that dialogue, and it does not seem to go wrong that way. But today we've been worried. It has defined what is happening in Catalonia as a conflict between majority social wills, and has shaken the old thesis of the conflict to which the nationalists are so addicted. As if they wanted to forget that conflicts were inherent in modern societies, and that democracy was actually a way of channelling them from reason and law. That utopian world where there are no longer conflicts exists only in that populist dream that claims without any basis that with independence all problems will be solved. Faced with reality, however difficult it may be, without self-deception, is the obligation of responsible politicians; the other thing is to bring the arguments to a childish reasoning. I think it is time to put order, not to irresponsibly shake the waters, not even here in the Basque Country, it will not be that your party suffers the same bill of independence as the former Convergence. But above all, let us not return to the path of political instability, uncertainty and division, which only translates into economic and social impoverishment. I am aware of their sovereignist aspirations, and from the exercise of my responsibility I will fight them politically, but in the interest of all Basques I ask you to move away from that policy which in the name of a people ends up violating the individual rights of its citizens. And I trust that you will not cross the line that separates us from the most extremists. Today he wanted to make his proposal for a new status for Euskadi. He has told us that he now intends us to form, together with the rest of Spain, a confederal state. I think it's a novelty, because Mr. Ortuzar in the Aberri Eguna told us that we were going to be like Gibraltar, and that's what a colony is; you yourself said earlier that we would constitute a foreign nation, which must be the only one in the world, and in the times of the lehendakari Ibarretxe we aspired to become an associated free state, like Puerto Rico. It can't surprise you that we think you're a little confused, or you have an identity problem that doesn't let you see clearly what you want us to be. The bases, however, are always the same: that Euskadi is a political nation endowed with a constituent power to which must be recognized a right of self-determination or of bilateral secession, which, yes, you say you would use to confederate with the rest of Spain. Only that, along the way, if his last idea were to come forward, the constitutional Spain that we know would have ceased to exist. Because the only legal way for their dream to come true is for the Spaniards to decide to liquidated their Constitution and end their coexistence after five hundred years. In short, that Spain commit suicide, but in a suicide pact, since the dialogue. Your proposal has serious problems from all points of view. It anchors the supposed constituent power of the Basque nation in the first additional provision of the Constitution, in an unconvincing exercise of imagination. First, because the entire Constitution must be read from the preamble (I recommend that you review, for example, articles 1 and 2). Secondly, because the historical rights which are recognized and which correspond to the historical territories – that is, Alava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which I do not know either, then, whether in this case they have the individualised right to decide or not, and why they do not have it – can only be updated, as the same additional provision wants, through a statute of autonomy, as the Gernika Statute of Autonomy does. Of course, the new status they seek to achieve in this way requires changing the rules of the European Union, the acquis communautaire, and adopting a new constitution as far as Spain is concerned. Subsequently, as a confederate State, we would have our own judicial power, a foral pass, the ability to block the laws of the Courts or prevent their application in the Basque Country, and I suppose that all Spaniards would continue to finance pensions and investments in infrastructure. Frankly, Mr Urkullu, your proposal did not seem serious or feasible to me, and I think it can get us into a tremendous mess right now that things are going well. Do you know how many Basques, today, are in favour of independence? According to the Euskobarometer, only 30%, and going down. Basque society does not want adventures, it still remembers with bitterness the fracture that generated the last one that you pushed. Because the worst is not that: these processes are known how they begin, but they are not known how they end. Mr. Mas began by asking for an economic concert and ended up dragging the most radical, dividing Catalan society and scorning the laws. I'm telling you very seriously. I want to trust your prudence and good talent. Don't take us to that dead end. Neither the Basques nor the Spanish as a whole deserve it, nor do you deserve it yourself, Mr Urkullu. Mr Lehendakari, it was precisely with the Statute of Gernika, which is the greatest expression of agreement between Basques and between Spaniards, when Euskadi has reached its highest levels of progress and well-being. You take it for granted, using the alleged pending transfers as an argument, although you sometimes recognize that the claim has little basis. And you say yourself: "The reference to the blocking of transfers serves us to realize that there is a problem of insufficient guarantees. We have no guarantee, neither judicial nor political, that we will all interpret the same when reading the competences attributed to Euskadi by the Statute." This comes to say that transfers are a minor problem, because what is really important for you is to be able to build another legal-political framework. In any case, if you are going to present that document tomorrow, we will have time to discuss it in this House. What we cannot believe is that the Statute has not been fulfilled for thirty-eight years because the ports of Passages or Bilbao, which are the exclusive competence of the State, have not been transferred. What should also not be forgotten is that, even in the area of the exclusive competence of the State, management commissions are normally carried out to ensure the cooperation of its Government. And that, therefore, the collaboration in a modern state, between governments and administrations that overlap, what has to prevail and seek is what suits the citizen most in every case. Mr Lehendakari, for forty years the terrorist violence of ETA has devastated the Basque Country, causing impoverishment, pain and fear and threatening freedom and coexistence. What ETA and its supporters were seeking was to impose a kind of forced nationalism on the Basques as a whole, to declare a totalitarian state of socialist court in an alleged independent Euskal Herria. It sounds crazy, but in the name of that madness, hundreds of innocent people have been killed and the Basques have been extorted. Today, ETA's support justifies this past of terror and continues to seek to impose an authoritarian model on society. They have had to renounce terrorist violence, because they have been defeated by democracy and the rule of law, but have not abjured those ends, but want to legitimize them and make them possible by other means. In this Parliament, tools are provided for the defence of their cause. Through a paper that, far from seeking the delegitimization of terrorism, is put at the service of those who seek to create this false context of the conflict that justifies ETA's criminal history. We sometimes see his Government more concerned about the rapprochement of prisoners than about seeking a commitment to collaborate with the clarification of the more than 300 outstanding ETA crimes. They deliberately promote equidistance between violence, equality between victims, in a strategy that seeks to introduce our society into a kind of collective amnesia about ETA's criminal trajectory. I want to tell you that from the People's Party we will continue to exercise the responsibility – because it concerns us in the first person – to work for a true account of what happened in this land, where there are no equidistance or neutral memories, and to put the victims of terrorism at the centre. With particular concern we attend episodes of hatred when they are starred by young people, because they reveal the intense pedagogy that still remains to be done in Basque schools and institutes. We find it particularly serious that minors are involved in acts of tribute and welcome to ETA prisoners, where terrorism is often exalted and victims are offended by the indifference of the Government. You must reflect, Mr Lehendakari, because the delegitimization of terrorism still aims at a halfway point, when there is a group in this House unable to condemn ETA's criminal trajectory. I believe that after forty years of terrorism, when we have achieved peace, the strategic challenge of the Basques is to regain the opportunities that violence has taken away from us in ethical, social and economic terms. We can now strengthen a true open society, a model of coexistence, social cohesion and progress, where we do not intend to replace the initiatives of society, but to promote them as much as possible. This requires a bet on a certain model of society that you sometimes sketch – and you outlined here this morning – that seeks personal autonomy through employment and favors entrepreneurship. The Basque Country also needs a certain liberal turn, less interventionism, less clientele, more jobs and less subsidies; it needs an open and attractive environment to compete successfully. A report from BBVA told us that the total capital of the Basque Country has reduced its participation in the Spanish whole since the beginning of the century, one of the largest relative declines among the autonomous communities. Euskadi has a good socio-economic position within Spain as a whole, and we are now growing and creating jobs, but its relative position has worsened if we look at it from a historical perspective and also analyze the capacity for attracting investment. In what we have been doing for a century, all the major sectors have grown less in the Basque Country than in the rest of Spain. The worst behaviour has been in the industrial and construction sectors. The industrial sector has experienced a significant loss of weight, from 29.7 of GDP in 2008 to 23.3 in the first quarter of 2017. I know that your aim is to bring it to 25%, and that you cannot think about recovering the positions we have already lost. You yourself at the start of the political course warned that there are thirty-six industrial enterprises at risk, and that they are endangering 6,000 jobs. We are still waiting for someone to come and tell us about it in Parliament and for the counselor to tell us about it. I ask you what your government will do to protect industrial employment, how it will create a truly competitive environment for our companies. Are you, for example, willing to lower corporate tax from 28 % to 25 %, as in the rest of Spain? Other significant data also illustrate the opportunities we are missing. Our growth is strong, but our growth has been below Spain's average last year, and eleven autonomous communities have grown more than we have. We are leading the increase in collective redundancies: we have lost 75,000 jobs and 7,000 businesses in the crisis, which will take time to recover at the current rate of growth and with a entrepreneurship rate that is lower than that of other communities. We have 20,000 self-employed people less than in 2008, and our unemployment rate, which is reduced on unemployment which is lower than the national one, also falls due to the effect of the reduction of our labour force. In fact, our inactive population has increased and now accounts for 44% of adults, which shows the serious ageing problem to which you referred. His lordship says he knows the problems, and has repeated it many times: "I know the problems". I don't miss anything, because they are the same problems as when he took possession in 2012. What we're not so sure about is that he knows how to fix them. And I would like, in the short time that I have, to refer to some matter. First, education. And you have acknowledged, the data in the PISA report put us in front of the mirror: educational policies have not worked, they are the worst results of our history. We lead the public spending per student, but we have a mediocre result in the educational ranking. In the face of the suspension of our educational model, he was surprised that his Government had reacted by transferring responsibility to the teaching community, and was unable to provide a reliable diagnosis of the reasons for the failure. I will tell you: in the Basque Country too many times the commitment to educational excellence has been relegated to a background in order to prioritise strategic objectives for nationalism. Let us talk about plurilingualism, because you have also made a connection: only 13% of Basque teachers are accredited to teach in English, and that is that the level required, which is B2, is lower than that required to teach Basque, which is C1, because in that case the percentage of teachers who are qualified falls to 8%. Therefore, we are doing very badly if we want to get closer to the targets set for 2020. We want to believe so we can teach in a foreign language. And this is a serious problem of equity, because not everyone has the means to ensure that their children can learn English. You mentioned this problem, but you did not find the solution. And don't tell us you're working on it, because, for example, of the 740 places for teachers in this year's public job offer 2017 (740 places), only 57 English is required. Therefore, it does not seem that we will have the means to carry this policy forward. If we talk about active employment policies and Lanbide, failure is also evident in both aspects of its management. On the one hand, the system chronises aid recipients without offering them opportunities to gain employment: last year Lanbide only intervened in 2.5 of the job offers registered in Euskadi, which is half of the 5% target you had set for the previous parliamentary term. And the management of social aid, which has a budget that already exceeds EUR 500 million and a number of beneficiaries who, despite the fact that we are in a situation of economic upturn, because it is barely coming down, is being maintained, is what is most evident by the shortcomings of our model of protection. We are supportive, but we demand that the effort be managed in a fair, responsible and sustainable manner. In the last three years there have been improper charges of 132 million euros, we have known alarming cases of fraud, plots that falsify passports to scam and collect RGI, recipients of this aid accused of drug trafficking, jihadists who continued to collect it after having been convicted... In short, the absence of effective control mechanisms leads to system abuse and alarm among citizens. They resigned in the past legislature to address this problem, denied the system's failures, and even vetoed the possibility that it could be discussed here. They have now put forward a reform proposal, which we do not know when they will implement. It seems to us that this is a step forward but that it is ambiguous and confusing. It even contains measures that represent a setback, and some other measures that you apply that are a day's flower. And I'll give you an example. Two days ago we knew that you required the identification number of foreigners from other countries to apply for GIR. The measure lasted only a month! This is a serious matter, which denotes the lack of direction of the department and the inability to undertake the reforms that are needed. In that case, having the requirement is essential for people to be able to regularize their situation and access to the labour market or training courses offered, and when they are not required to receive the permanent allowance without offering them any opportunity, which is exactly the opposite of what Lanbide promotes and what our protection system would have to look for. I miss, Mr Urkullu, that your Government has not yet put in place a comprehensive policy framework for managing social aid. I have seen it in the Bizkaia Parliament, which have promoted a plan: the deputy general has assumed that social demand, and will increase the monitoring of the benefits he manages. I already know that you do not usually agree with Mr Rementeria either in social policy or in fiscal policy, and recently not even on the subject of Catalonia, but we would like his Government to do the same and take good note of the initiatives of other members of his party. Our social protection system needs comprehensive reform. You have insisted on a structural problem that I have already mentioned, which is the ageing of our community, with one of the highest rates in Europe and which affects not only our working population, but also the sustainability of public services. Today the Basque population is 25% lower than ten years ago. Moreover, according to recent studies, Basque youth do not identify marriage, partner or children as goals for happiness. It is urgent to intervene, Mr Urkullu, if we do not want Euskadi to stand still, if we want a dynamic Euskadi, capable of facing the challenges of the future. Therefore, since we know nothing about the fourth family support plan and no commitment has been made to a multi-annual investment in these policies over the next few years, I urge you to do so. He has set it among his priorities and said that it was one of the causes of the increase in expenditure, and I ask him to put it in place as soon as possible. We, Mr Urkullu, wish to maintain our cooperation with your Government in the objectives we can share. You know the importance of having budgets, which is the main economic tool of a government both to have guaranteed political stability that allows them to function calmly and to generate the certainty that consolidates economic growth, job creation and social recovery. And I want it to go well for you, because you never believe me, but I want it to go well for you, because if it goes well for you, then it will go well for us all. You were invested lehendakari after signing an agreement with the Socialist Party, a government agreement that does not give you the parliamentary majority and forces you to seek partners to carry out your projects. I have repeated on too many occasions perhaps, for some, that we can meet on the path of centrality, and they always find me. That was a few months ago, too. We, thanks to that will of agreement, facilitated the approval of the Basque budgets for this year, and we felt that that was a satisfactory agreement. We did so because we were able to converge on an economic and social model in the way of moderation to underpin the stability that Euskadi needs, to promote policies of economic revival, job creation and social cohesion. That is not all we would have liked, but it was enough to have an agreement and to avoid major evils or conflict situations that blocked the Government's action. But we include in that role that we sign, in that agreement, as a condition, that the tax reform that Euskadi needs should not be taxed, that it is a matter that affects his party and also his Government very much and that has to be addressed, in fact, on the general boards of the territories. That there should be no additional tax burden on families and businesses, that savings should be encouraged, that public spending should be controlled, and that the greatest revenue should be from increased economic activity. The tax reform that is now in the public debate comes at a time when Basque farms are going to beat their historical record of collection, with 10% more than last year, in 2016, which means that your government will have about €700 million more to spend. You say it's something less..., well, but that's just what you spend on what you want, because you don't need to go through this House, and so I think that's a mattress and a relief also to meet your deficit targets. You're going to have more money this year than you thought you were going to have, and under those circumstances I ask you: does it really mean to tell all Basques that they're going to raise taxes? Don't you notice that the real problem we have is that we don't get to cover, with tax revenues, Euskadi's consolidated spending budget, and that's where we have to act, not screwing the taxpayer any more? Because the weight and cost of the Administration is still being maintained. And I understand that there are reasons for sharing among the different families of your party, I wonder how much administrative apparatus we need in Euskadi, and I wonder where your rationalization plan is. I therefore tell you that we will move proposals for rationalising expenditure and for the consequent reduction and solidarity of corporate taxes and personal income, because we believe that Euskadi can and should allow this journey. I am aware of the difficulties you must have in reaching an agreement on this matter with your partner in government, because first you must reach an agreement between yourselves on this issue and also on the Law of Contributions, but I hope you will be right for the good of all. I'm done, Madam President. The past political course was similar to the current one: two groups on the bench of this Parliament were betting on their imprint of radicalism and populism. They're here. Some seek on behalf of the citizens to nullify their initiative, and the others propose to break our frameworks of coexistence as a solution to all the ills that afflict the Basques. We believe it is a mistake to hand over key policies to the decision of the most extremist parties, but you will have to decide what your offer is for the Basques. More taxes to cover more public spending? From the People's Party of the Basque Country we are fully convinced that only a scenario of moderation and stability provides the necessary limbs so that Euskadi can continue to grow and generate opportunities. Therefore, what I want to say to you, given what you have been putting forward, is that you weigh well the consequences of changing your travel companion. I can't accompany you on some trips, rather adventures that you seem to anticipate for the future, but as long as you don't change the course of the agreed thing I think things might go well. Today you have worried us, Mr Lehendakari, because you have come, precisely today, to the House to claim the right of self-determination. With sweet words, but to claim it. We are concerned about that fatal attraction that pushes them every time to the position of the most radical, we are concerned that the stability we enjoy in Euskadi can be broken to embark on adventures that lead nowhere. The Basque way must be that of real dialogue. The one you proposed here today sounds nicer and seems less aggressive than that of your Catalan colleagues, but it leads to the same desert. I ask you to reflect; let us not bring down what we have built and what we can still build. Much remains to be done to consolidate the recovery and for Euskadi to scale up positions, which he can do, and I ask you something very seriously too, and I conclude with this: if you are as dialogueal as you claim to be, and you have preached it in this rostrum (you are filled with your mouth talking about your great negotiating capacity), take a moment to communicate with your opposition. They haven't called us for months, we haven't heard from them. We don't know where they want to go. Pay attention to me, with all due respect, Mr Lehendakari, it will not be that when I disconnect the phone it is already too late. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u8	Good afternoon, everyone. Presidents, chiefs, congressmen, authorities, friends, good afternoon. The Basque Socialists face this new course with two certainties and three commitments. Certainties are that we are right in deciding to participate from the beginning of this legislature in decisions that will enable us to face the challenges ahead in Euskadi, and that this socialist decision has been the key to further widening agreements and unleashing conflicts. Because the rest were inhibited from their responsibility, they neglected what we were asked from the ballot box, which was consensus, but we chose to unlock governability to offer stability to the citizenry. The commitments are, first, that our work should be used for women to regain their rightful role, for young people to undertake their life projects, for the long-term unemployed to find opportunities, for the elderly to have guaranteed a dignified life and a dignified existence, and above all for no one who needs it to be left without help. Secondly, that the Socialists will turn to forging broad and varied agreements, concerning employment plans, industrialization, the fight against precariousness, the strengthening of the GIR, training and everything we have already put on the table. And we will do it without exclusions and without vetoes. The Socialists want to count on the contributions of Euskal Herria Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party, and we will make every effort to do so. And, third, that the socialist presence ensures that everything that this Government does will respond to citizens' needs and the principles of legality. Faced with the uncertainties and fears of the past and those we are seeing elsewhere, certainties and security. And we want this message to be clearer today than ever before. We want today, more than ever, the Basques and Basques to know that a government where we are the socialists will never lead them to the abyss. We're not doing it. Where we are, the socialists are not going to make illegal decisions, but they are not going to be allowed to rot the problems either. Where we are we will provide answers and solutions, and we will open the doors to dialogue, and we will veto the vetoes. The Basque Socialists show our solidarity with the Catalans, with all of them, with the nationalists and the non-nationalists, because they have been abandoned by their institutions; because the electoral interests of the People's Party elsewhere in Spain despised the ambition to improve their self-government through the pact between different people; because, achieved that electoral objective, the absolute majority of the PP despised that sentiment; and because for five years the PP abused its absolute majority. It abused to impose social cuts, but it also abused to raze with dialogue and agreement as a mechanism for conflict resolution. And because independence has been the best smokescreen for those who overwhelm rights and have corruption problems, in Spain and Catalonia. Because coexistence has been broken, because it is facing the citizenry. And for all that we sympathize with the Catalans. For all that, for those things that we have been able to overcome here in Euskadi. And to overcome it we definitely made a country bet a year ago, a bet for dialogue, a bet for solutions, a bet open to all and all, without exclusions, without vetoes and without humiliations. A bet for all, for all, for nationalists and for non-nationalists. And of that bet we want to speak precisely today, of that bet we must speak today, of that will for dialogue and agreement. Today more than ever, and given the gravity of what is happening in Catalonia, we want the citizens in Euskadi to know that we do listen to them, that we care for them, that we seek solutions, and that there is a government and a parliament focused on their agenda, and that there is a majority will to strengthen self-government as the most useful tool to guarantee their rights, as the best way to organize our coexistence, by agreeing between different people. That is why we refuse to allow that necessary debate to be hidden by the stellate. Let's talk about Euskadi today, let's talk about his day to day, and above all let's talk about his future. Let's talk about politics with capitals, what we think of each other, what we think of each other, where we find each other. Precisely for this decade when the Catalans have not been able to respond to their problems, we want to tell the Basques that we, who have committed ourselves in the government, do have them; that we are going to practice the best method that is within our reach, which is the agreement open to all. And in this assembly of the whole, we do not only examine the Government, but we all examine what each group has done for this society. And it is very well for us to compare it with the beginning of the last legislation, to have a good perspective. So, we lost the first year, we didn't even get the budget. All the forces had to be brought forward by opposition. Today we have budgets, and the government, even if it's in minority, is working on a program and a clear path page. When we get to the middle of the law, we'll have two-thirds of the legislation program approved or transferred. And all planned plans will be planned. We have a good rhythm. And the initiative is in groups that support the government, and we see no alternative in the other parts. It serves only to lock up the majority of the occasion, or to emphasize what we already know that we are in the minority. That's why we Socialists want to confirm the position in favor of the agreement. The agreement with all the groups without exception is believed to be possible with them and others. We have acquired it more than once, though it may sometimes seem contrary. The facts prove it: the greater part of the agreements we have acquired by unanimous consent or by collecting EH and Podemos, and the greater number by the Popular Party. This is the path we socialists want to follow. The gates for the settlement are wide open. You all know that. There's a perfect opportunity ahead of us. A chance to show the power of politics to transform things. But it's also a chance for the people. Let's not lose the compass. It is not that the Government needs the agreements to adopt initiatives; it is that the country needs them to address reforms. It's a political conviction, and we don't want anyone to stay in the corner. And this has been the Socialist Group's effort, and it will continue to be, and we are already doing so. It serves as a somewhat imminent example: we are going to defend in the courts the fund created for the victims of asbestos. We have discussed it here, we have approved it here, and we are going to take it so that it can be resolved where competition exists. And this is what we want to do with the rest of the citizens' agenda issues, which are many. That is what we want to offer those who do not feel in their jobs that improvement of the economy. To this end, we have set ourselves as the first objective of this mandate the Framework Programme of Employment, and this is what we offer to workers of companies in difficulty, to workers of the Naval, to those of CEL, to those of other many work centres. Let them know that our concern is not new, that our first initiative of the legislature was to complete the work for the revitalization of the Left Margin, mining zone and Oarsoaldea. That we do not want to delay further those proposals, that we want to add them to those contained in the Industrial Plan, as we want to add different plans for the economic and social dynamism of other areas of our country that also suffer redundancies and relocations. The most recent example is the new technology park in Abanto or the plans that are already being worked out for the Encartaciones. That is why new employment opportunities must emerge, that is why the reduction in unemployment must come out, that is why workers must be given access to high-quality jobs. The citizens must know that here, in Euskadi, their institutions, all of us, are turning to that goal, this Parliament too. Let us all focus on perfecting our model of vocational training through the law that we have already put in process, because that law will allow us to adapt our workers to the new economic needs, to the technological revolution. We are laying the foundations for recovery, and it is striking to us that there is controversy that was already in this House. We have already been doing so with broad consensus. They are controversies that burst out of private life and that forget the 100,000 people living in this sector and the companies that create jobs. Socialists would have wanted more time in the last legislature to make a law that offered all the answers to the challenges of the sector, but it could not have been. But we want the opportunity that has left us the end of ETA to be a lever for a quality tourism industry. Quality in employment, quality in services provided, and social quality, balanced and sustainable. Facilitating employment opportunities and tackling precariousness is not a slogan, it is expressing our skills to make it possible. And that's what we're doing, with an inspection plan that aims to combat labour fraud, and thanks to it only in what we have been doing for 1,400 workers of the year have managed to regularize their employment situation. There is a need to regularize and stabilize public employment. The Socialists have already begun two legislatures to design a generational relief plan; now in all the Basque administrations there is an opportunity for the completion of staffing, the renewal and, above all, the stabilization, through the various job offers in progress. This effort in the public sphere must also be accompanied by an effort in the private sector. Basque workers have to feel in their pockets the improvement of the economy. Today we insist on the agreement that we reached in May with Euskal Herria Bildu, demanding an increase in wages within the scope of collective bargaining, but my party does not remain in the mere declaration, so we propose for the whole of Spain an income pact, which breaks at once the dynamics of low wages and poor workers. It is also a far-reaching initiative, on which we will all have to take a stand, because all of us sitting here have representation in the courts. Here, as far as we're concerned, we have to make our way. And a good step was the interprofessional agreement of January; as is the recovery of the Social Dialogue Bureau, a forum where to agree with employers and trade unions on the measures with which we want to put Euskadi in the twenty-first century in economic development and in the protection of labour rights. The institutions must foster that dialogue so that workers, who have suffered especially in layoffs and wages the long crisis, can participate in that economic improvement. It is up to the actors to negotiate collectively, and it is up to the institutions to create the framework within which these agreements are possible. And when we talk about labour rights, we think especially of women, because we have not yet managed to correct the great wage gap that separates them from men and their greatest lack of protection. And that's a deeply unfair thing. But it will also be a factor of competitiveness if it is fully incorporated on an equal footing in the machinery room of the economy. It is an immense human capital that this society cannot afford to waste. The men's commitment to family reconciliation must also be added to their full incorporation. This ageing Euskadi needs care for the dependents, and that parents have the children they want without fear of losing their job or well-being. And for them we are extending the public social services system, which also opens the door to new jobs. But it is also something that affects equality between men and women, because they must have no limits on their personal and professional development. Equal rights, equal responsibilities. And I want to remind at this point all murdered women and all those who feel afraid. For them we must work on the law committed to this legislature, which is based on basic consensus reached in this Parliament. They must know that we will continue to strive to ensure that everyone is truly free, and that is why we believe that we must deepen equality, but also in the economic and labour fields. To guarantee equality between men and women is to strengthen social protection, for women are the principal victims of this system. And this subject has a direct relation to the Reformation of RGI. The help, that all those who need it may arrive, but that it needs fewer and fewer. This is a discussion we haven't made. In a great measure, because of some dispersal discourses, they will stand before us, and will present us to those who would oppose the collective ones that require assistance. The government sent us a document and it's a good place to strengthen the system of our social protection. But in this way the duration of the system must be indisputable, because it is the most suitable investment to ensure the population. We need to reinforce social protection, yes. The members of the legislature who will be here in 20 years to be able to say this. The Socialists expressly appreciate the agreement reached at the last plenary session of last year, because there is a strong majority in this House who shares the need to strengthen our system of protection and offer opportunities to those who are stuck in aid. We have already worked on the reform of RGI and Lanbide and the new social inclusion plan. We hope that the People's Party will once and for all remove those populist temptations that so much disgust you in others, and that it will assume that same vocation. The result must not fully satisfy any party, it must meet the needs of those who cannot survive with their own resources. That's how I've been passing it on to all the social groups I've been meeting to open the deal with. Because this matter is a priority for us, it defines us as a society. We want to remain a reference, because no other community that has made an effort in minimum income even reaches where we are. The Socialists know what it has cost to build this model, because we have been in all the agreements that have made it possible. Despite its failures, it is the best in our environment, and it has been by a social vocation and broad consensus. And that's where we want to guide the reform. And we also want to be proud of our environmental model. This summer we have achieved the definitive closure of Garoña. My group at the start of this parliamentary term brought this issue back, and in the end the People's Party has given up. It has not done so by looking at citizens or their security, nor by thinking about the energy model we need. He's done it just for his own needs. But we do think about the main thing: we are advocating an energy transition, for nuclear power plants to give way to more efficient and safe production systems. And as far as we are concerned, we are going to rearrange our rules on nature protection and on the environment. We will integrate it into a broader concept: that of combating climate change. A struggle that is also a window of opportunity for new jobs, green jobs for regeneration, in innovation, and is also an indicator of a country's competitiveness, as is social cohesion. A cohesion that has progressed since we conquered the right to housing. In this year and a half, a thousand families have already accessed a roof under which to live, and another 3,000 families have been informed that they meet the requirements for access. And this autumn there will be a new impulse with the decree that develops it without cuts. To achieve these and other objectives we need resources, and for that we want taxes. Our tax reflection is always what services we want to have, how we can pay them, pay everyone, and pay more who has the most. Efficiency and proportionality to ensure fair redistribution of wealth. That is why we refuse the simplistic debates about raising or lowering taxes that so much entertain others. It is the debates that seek those who demand tax cuts that lower social rights and growth opportunities. Three years ago we were able to complete a reform that we had been demanding for some time. The bet we push, lead and agree is bearing fruit. First, we were able to stop the emptying of the coffers that put our public services at risk. But we had the look in the medium term, and we are already seeing it in this exercise, and with the take-off of the Basque economy and with greater effort in the fight against tax fraud we will see how all the effects of that reform are unfolding. That is the policy that interests us, which responds to the challenges of globalization, technological revolution and ageing. Challenges to which Euskadi cannot afford entertainment. It's the Euskadi model we're still working on. A strengthened health model; an educational model that needs a renewed pact, with the public school as the central axis of the equality of our children, which is the best basis for the equality of the future; a police model adapted to the end of Basque terrorism but also to the challenges of new terrorism; a model of public broadcasting in which no one feels excluded, with more transparent and less politicized governance. A model with roots, which we don't want to start again to plant. A model that suffers from material wear due to intensive use and needs to be updated. The Socialists will continue to work to ensure that this Euskadi model continues to be supported on solid foundations, which are only possible with broad consensus. Yesterday in the self-government presentation, the requested appearances ended. We have heard new voices in favour of the social strengthening of our self-government, so that it is an even more effective and useful instrument to solve the needs of citizens and not to create new problems for them. It is the focus that we have wanted to place since the last parliamentary term, and this is what we recorded in this House twenty months ago. The state has been essential in the construction of the modern social Basque building, and I think it is essential to accept this fact with all the details you want, but we must admit it to be so. Now, it's our proposition that the self-organizations continue to be a tool for organizing our lives, respecting the differences and managing public services so that we can guarantee social rights. And in reality beyond our frontier we must well pronounce the state. In the next few weeks, we'll have to agree on how to arrange all this work and then determine the terms of the law. And our position is known: Socialists believe that the Federal reform of the Constitution is the safest means of extending the auto-generacy, to clear their jurisdictions, and to secure the integrity of different administrations. That's why we need federal reform. I know that other groups are not attracted to this issue, but time has come to give us reason. We live in convulsed moments for coexistence and the guarantee of plurality. The civil and social rights of Catalans are at stake today. We feel close to them, because Euskadi and Catalonia are plural societies with different feelings, and that we have shared our history in the joint project of Spain. Here it has been hard for us to understand it, there have been even those who have killed for not understanding it, and we have managed to channel that coexistence. And, lehendakari, you know it. He knows that the Socialists are in the government with that conviction; that we are not for a division of management areas, that we have made ourselves co-responsible for a Euskadi in which we live together. The Socialists make us co-responsible for the Euskadi of the future, and we do not want anyone to throw that effort overboard. And for that we have needed much dialogue, and that is what we demand for Catalonia: dialogue, agreement, guarantee of plurality, and law. Because the law is essential, but we know that the Penal Code does not solve the Catalan problem either, it is necessary political with capitals. And it is possible to do so in the General Courts. Here in this House it has been customary to sympathize with a part of Catalonia; not with Catalonia, only with a part. Not with the Catalan institutions, because there has been no sign of solidarity with the mayors persecuted for complying with the only legislation in force, although I do not like the only one that currently rules in Catalonia. And we have found ourselves alone advocating for dialogue and constitutional reform through a window. Today we demand it more strongly if it can, and we invite everyone to participate in the solution. But there can also be a new opportunity for us, for the Basque self-government. That is where some of the reflections that the lehendakari has put on the table this morning, in a previous constitutional reform, can fit in. Others would have to clean them up and remember them. You know the discrepancies that we have and maintain; in fact, we assumed those differences in the agreement a year ago and left them outside the government. That is why we decided that the debate should reside in this Parliament, and that this is where we would agree. And I invite you to send them along with those we have already made the groups. We'll analyze them, let's let the paper work. And, as we commit ourselves, what we agree will have to respond to the current order. Socialists have ratified what we recorded 20 months ago. We reiterate that we advocate a statutory reform that defines us as a community with rights and obligations, which is what gives us the status of Basque citizens; that recognizes both the plurality of our society and our uniqueness, and that shields the social rights that we have developed without the need for transfers, such as income-guarantee income or the right to housing. And we define what we want to update self-government for, as we are clear what the present has served: for the progress and well-being of the Basques. What do we want with the prison transfer? To comply with the provisions of the Constitution on resocialization. Why do we want to manage Social Security? To be co-responsible with a public pension system, without breaking the unitary system, which is what the law says. As we believe in the Statute and the Constitution, we demand its compliance without prejudice to its amendments, and we believe that the more the Statute and the Constitution are legitimized, the more they are complied with. We hope that Elkarrekin We can define his idea of country and incorporate his contributions to those of the rest. From there, we must give scope, within the legal framework, to each other's approaches. And the result is that we want it to be as broad as possible. The socialists were in the transversality of 36 and 79. We will be there whenever, like the previous ones, it has a social vocation and complies with the established procedures. In any case, we are certain that the present Government will not return us to abysses that Euskadi looked upon a decade ago. We have that certainty because we are the socialists, and where we are the socialists there will not be a single decision that leads to confrontation. We have made an unequivocal bet for coexistence and plurality, and we will make it stand where we are. The Socialists want the Basques to vote for a renewed statute in this legislature in a legal referendum; an updated statute, which reinforces that draft in which today a large majority is recognized. A country that progresses by recognizing the different, by agreeing with it, proud of its public services, of the rights conquered for all and of solidarity. An area of joint progress, economic growth with social recovery, freedoms and equality. It is not a question of making a new statute that is socialist, neither of the PNV, nor of EH Bildu, nor of Podemos, nor of the People's Party. It is a matter of updating a statute in which no one feels excluded, a vote to be voted on. And we now want to incorporate into that common task those who did not want to be four decades ago: the right most identified with Spain, and the independenceists. We will already have the opportunity to ask the Basques for confidence in an election to rule Euskadi for four years. What the Socialist Group proposes is that we all ask the Basques at the same time to trust in an agreement so that their social rights, the growth of the country and plurality are shielded in this space of coexistence for at least four more decades. A space of coexistence in which no one feels threatened and does not forget why in this country he was killed. We have enough noises and stridences, and we still lack rigour and discretion. The presentation of memory and coexistence is presented as a new opportunity to build trust and address outstanding issues. We have all wanted our priority to be the victims, who still require reparation and truth. Some are committed to wanting to settle a false account, but the socialists are not going to admit it. Neither that, nor that no one casts half a shadow of doubt on our ethical attitude. The victims of terrorism were, are and will be the lever of all public policies on memory and coexistence, and they will remain so in all that remains to be done, and the Socialists will also take care of it. My group therefore once again invites the People's Party to participate in that forum. We don't want you to be speechless. And let us leave the ongoing public controversy, because it is absolutely unacceptable that from this rostrum it has been accused of not wanting peace for parties that have suffered terrorism. It is absolutely unacceptable to return to the insulting paintings and to the tributes that humiliate those who have suffered from ETA. And it is absolutely unacceptable that ghosts of betrayal of the victims should be revived or that someone hints that ETA has won, or still has some hint of defeat. Here was a band that killed to impose a political project, and it didn't kill. He stopped killing without a single assignment, and stopped killing thanks to police and judicial action and the civic resistance of those who refuse to be expelled from our land. That is the great victory of democracy in the face of terror, which has led to the withdrawal of ETA because it was unable to defeat the rule of law. And this time, and we forced him to deliver himself of his own weapons. Now we are waiting for his undoing to disappear for once. It's up to you to take that step, just to you. Parties have to deal with these matters. And it's a fundamental agreement to prevent a prisoner from going back out of prison and stirring up his terrorist past. We can't accept this humiliation of the victims. The terrorists will come out of prison sometime and it's our job to help you help him get into his society. It is precisely with that society which they attacked, and which is quite contrary to what they pleased, that Euskika maintains its plural character against terrors. And it is not just a question of placing the Spanish Government, which has the powers in prison policy. It is a matter of calling on all of us to dispel misgivings, to work together and to see how from the law we offer formulas that allow this resocialization provided for in the Constitution. This Parliament can pave the way. As the avenues for redress must also be cleared for victims of police abuse. In democracy, human rights violations supported by the excuse for the existence of ETA also occurred and were condoned, and one of the greatest strengths for a democratic system is in its ability to repair those wounds. It is not in our hand to impart justice; that is why we made this law in which the victims do not appear, but it is focused exclusively on the victims. Those of us who share ethical principles should also share the need for such reparation. There is no excuse for the public authorities to intrude on their responsibility for amparo. It is no excuse for anyone in this House to talk in a deranged manner about these police abuses, and to try their clothes to talk about ETA's crimes. No more excuses. These are the issues on which the Socialist Group wants to focus its efforts on this new political course. Without electoral calls ahead, it is a great opportunity to solve tasks that we had left pending in the past and that will require efforts from all, without exception. We are convinced that this is where citizens, who vote for us all, want us to turn our work around, and do so with broad consensus so that no one feels excluded. This is what the Basques and Basques decided with their vote, without giving anyone the ability to act without the others, calling on us all to look for the meeting spaces. That is what the Socialists decided to do in a strategic bet of a country that we believe has been a right, and today we see more clearly that right. A year ago, the citizens gave each party a key. We use it to open doors. This political decision, which the PNV decided to share, has, in turn, opened other doors that seemed to be stuck, which are those of the dialogue that the Government of Spain denied. And that's why we have started to undo the knots that allow us to consolidate the concert and the quota, cover all the Ertzaintza posts, culminate our infrastructures. It has been more necessary than virtue on the part of Rajoy's Executive, but we believe that clearing up mistrust between institutions has much to do with our commitment to stability. If a year ago some of us had not understood what the citizens wanted, we would not be here today. If the Socialists had not made themselves responsible for the Euskadi government, we would have doubted, doubted whether we would again drag ourselves into the sluggishness of disagreement and confrontation. But we don't hesitate, because we know that's not going to happen. We now want to widen the scope of the agreement, without vetoes; we want to share decisions that are useful to nationalists and non-nationalists; we want to consolidate a social and coexistence model for future generations. That is our challenge, and we have to start it on this political course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Next, together with the spokesman of the Podemos. Here, Mr. Hernandez will begin and Mr Martín will continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u10	Good afternoon, everyone. Before we begin I would like to invite you to attend this Sunday's extraordinary assembly of public offices in defence of democracy and civil rights convened by our confederal group in Congress, because we understand that the People's Party has already crossed all red lines, creating a genuine state of exception of unpredictable consequences. Political problems cannot be answered with authoritarianism, with arrests, let alone with a ban on public debates. I cannot be silent today in the face of the unusual outrage that is being committed, in our opinion, by the government of Mariano Rajoy, and that is why I will come to Zaragoza on Sunday to defend the search for political solutions in the face of the rampant bunker of the People's Party, as we have always done in the United Left. Having said that, and returning to Euskadi, I would like to remind Mr Lehendakari how a year ago in the investiture plenary I already stated that we did not share his Government's policies. A year later we found that the policies that have been implemented have been, if not the same, worse, precisely because of the influence of the People's Party on this executive. The cases of companies in crisis which we have known this summer and which seem to you to be exceptions are, in our view, a consequence of the government's policy, the result of which is the very important loss of weight in our industry in favour of economic sectors characterized by much more precarious working conditions. We now have thousands of jobs at risk, such as those at CEL or La Naval, whose workers are today, today, on the ground of war, defending much more than their own jobs. Some of the hundreds of jobs lost this summer, like those of the Xey company, are unforgivable, because they are companies with public participation, and the government was meanwhile watching them come. The precariousness of people's lives in our country has continued to increase one year after the constitution of this government. Precariousness especially tearing in working conditions: temporaryity, involuntary part-time work, illegal and unpaid overtime, and a long time and so on. The death figures in an accident at work in Euskadi are alarming. None of this in your speech this morning. You also did not agree with those who account for 80% of part-time work, have the lowest wages and the most precarious pensions, women. The conflict of women residential workers shows the greatest cruelty with which precarious work is carried out on women. The more feminized jobs suffer worse working conditions, and this is not said by a dangerous union or the Petrograd Soviet; this was said in this Parliament by the Basque Labour Relations Council. And, along with gender inequality, we have more than fifty-five years expelled forever from the possibility of working to live, and young people exploited with waste contracts that are perpetuated over time. Lowering the unemployment rate below 10% in a legislature, which is supposed to be the government's main objective, is, in my opinion, extremely easy if working conditions are lowered to the extremes we are experiencing. Our increasingly precarious conditions may allow you to run for the next elections with the – in my opinion too – poor 10% unemployment rate medal, but you will not be able to avoid an increase in conflict with a working class that does not arrive at the end of the month. In the first year of the legislature, strikes have increased by 55%. You continue to think that this responds to a union contubernium, and not to the reality of our country. In Euskadi, the discontent of public workers is also evident. In one year we have seen major strikes in public sectors such as education, transport, emergency services, assistance and many others. Urkullu jauna, like a year ago, we still do not share the educational model of his Government, which favours private education over public education with the highest rate of State interinity. We still do not share their model of outsourcing of public services or their model of taxation, based on the income of the working class and not those of capital. Policies all of them that are in need of the support and agreement of the People's Party, as we have heard, in exchange for PNV support for Montoro in Congress, with all that this entails. We need political solutions to political problems in the State – I agree with that – but we also need other policies in Euskadi. We need public policies against precariousness, focused on people's needs, and not precisely the policies that you, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, are implementing at the hands of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u12	Good afternoon. President Urkullu, after hearing your speech, who would say that Eukadin is in serious and very serious problems? Or who would say that government isn't good, would it? But reality shows us obstinately the opposite. If there's been problems, there's a lot of problems, and your government can't solve these problems. Your government, Mr. Urkullu, is like a fireman who doesn't know where the fires are, like a fireman who's always late. Mr Lehendakari, after listening to you, who would say that there are no serious problems in Euskadi or that we do not have a good government! But reality is just the opposite. We've got problems, go if we have them! And his Government was not exactly an example in its actions. His government is like a bad fireman, a bad fireman who doesn't know about the fires and is late. My colleague Jon Hernández preceded me at the speaking time, and he has already pointed out to you some of the relevant questions as far as employment is concerned, realities ignored in his speech. And those who recognize problems as those who hear rain can hardly solve them. I'm going to read you a series of Basque press headlines from the last few weeks. Beyond journalistic headlines, they are raw reality that lives many Basques and Basques in their day-to-day lives. The first, "Euskadi faces the hottest fall in labor in recent years"; "Euskadi has lost 5,124 companies in the last decade. Social Security workers' affiliations have been reduced by 52,000 people; "Euskadi loses 12,000 jobs in an August even worse than the state as a whole"; "Euskadi closes August with 580 fewer companies and with the disappearance of 1,192 self-employed people"; "Euskadi "leads the increase in collective redundancies until June". Look, citizens have not brought us here to say that everything is a disaster or that the situation is catastrophic. It's not our intention. But that citizenship doesn't want to hear that Euskadi is wonderful. Yes, it is true that the large numbers go well, but there is a large part of this country that is not participating in those good figures. It is true: when we hear these numbers, those macro numbers, things seem to be going well. But there is a great part of this people that does not partake of these macro-numbers, which it does not endure. And we can see several examples. For example, those 36 companies with problems, these 36 people in industrial sector, and their employees don't participate in these numbers. And there are over 6,000 families. They do not take part in these macro figures, in these good results, the more than 6,000 families affected by the situation of the workers of the thirty-six companies in the industrial sector that their own Government recognizes are in serious difficulty. There are also many areas of Euskadi that have been detached from that recovery from which you have taken breast, many areas of this country with unemployment rates well above the average of Euskadi: Enkarterri, the Great Bilbao, Alto Nervión, Oarsoaldea, Irun, Alto Deba, Laudio, Oion, Artzinega... Right now the problem of unemployment in Euskadi is a map in two colors, with two different realities and rhythms and speeds: that of the towns and cities that do not go wrong, and those where things go worse. And not only are they worse, but they're worse. Because, as his Government continues to build on those macro figures, the number of firms in crisis that are closing down or in difficulty continues to grow, and there are thousands of workers who are not seeing their situation improve. There are thousands of workers who do not see how their condition improves, but see how their condition is every day worse. But what does your Government do in the meantime? What solutions does it offer? I believe that the answer is not to make you or your Government proud, Mr Urkullu. Today you should have come to this House, you and Mrs Tapia, with gacha ears, knowing that you have done it wrong, that you have done it very badly with industrial policy. I will do one very simple thing: I will review what you have said, what you have said and what your Government has said about several of these companies that are now in crisis. The first case is that of Edesa Fagor. On 30 June a pre-competition of creditors was presented, and on 3 July Mrs Tapia acknowledged that she knew nothing about the situation of this company, and that despite the fact that the Basque Government was one of its financiers. This September 12 Mrs Tapia meets with the company committee. It took three months to receive them, and it only did so when the company presented an ERE that was already a reality. That's right, he offered them measures for workers who are unemployed. Not even quote a viability plan. "Etè sera un jeren jemplo de absolut de Control en la pollicia industriala del Gobierno." This is a very good example. We see here how the government has no control in their industrial politics. He puts money in business, and then he doesn't ask, and he doesn't even collect information about corporations. The second case, that of the company CEL, a profitable business group in which the Basque Government had a 40 % stake and thus entered the board of directors. As you were on the board of directors, you allowed yourselves to stop paying bills for the light, without opposing or saying anything. They also did not inform the workers that on 7 June they met with a light cut and with the production stopped. On 27 April, you get rid of your participation in the company, and again you do not inform the workers; you find out on 26 May. From Elkarrekin We have asked you in writing to justify the decision of the Basque Government to withdraw from the shareholdership, and you and your Government have given the silent answer. That is their management, that of silence, having left hundreds of workers in the region most punished for the unemployment of the whole of Euskadi on the loose. Bravo! Eskerrik asko! And the third case, La Naval, which today has an important demonstration. What a demeanor the one you're starring with La Naval, Mr. Urkullu and Mrs. Tapia! What a management disaster they're carrying out! On July 7 Mrs Tapia said again that there was still time to resolve the situation in La Naval, but on July 8 this same person already said that "it is over to put patches on companies without future". The Naval, in one day, suddenly ceased to have a future! On August 4 he said that the ships could be delivered in time, and today we knew the sad news that a shipowner has tried to take the ship to the brave. What a vision for the future! On August 30, when the disaster was to come, the Lehendakari wondered how it could have reached this point La Naval. A company that had a workload, what happened? Mr. Urkullu finished by saying that they don't listen deafly to their situation. Curious, because on 8 September, at his government meeting with the company committee, the workers complained about Mrs Tapia's coldness. In fact, Mrs Tapia does not save criticism of the workers. What a strange way of not making deaf ears, the one your government has! If on 31 August Mr Urkullu said that they were going to accompany La Naval in the search for solutions, on 8 September again we met Mrs Tapia saying that she would not participate in any table with shareholders and the central government to seek a solution. The government with which you have assumed to come to great agreements today... Who are those agreements for? Because, of course, for La Naval it's clear not. But also this 31 August, lehendakari, you said that the pre-competition of creditors was not your preferred option. On 8 September Mrs Tapia told the workers to prepare for the competition, and on 9th we were already talking about an orderly competition of creditors. If during these months ago Mrs Tapia and the Lehendakari said that in no way was the Basque Government going to enter the social capital of La Naval, suddenly, surprise, this week already said that they do not rule out entering with a minority participation, something some had already commented on a long time ago. Are you really proud of your management? Do you really believe that you can defend the management of your government over the past few months, looking to the face of the workers who have been in this Parliament listening to them this morning? Are you proud of your management? Are you proud of the faces you put on these problems? Do you think you can look at the workers and tell them that these problems can be solved and that your management in industrial politics has been good? Look at what things are. Do you know what the Basque Government signed with the company committee in La Naval in 2004? That the future of La Naval, thirteen years ago, was necessarily a part of the public business sector. And they pledged to participate actively in the management of the shipyard. Did the Basque Government fulfil the word, yes or no? Did he fulfill it, yes or no? But the saddest thing, you know what it is? The abandonment that its governing partner, the Socialist Party, has made of the Sestao Naval and the Left Margin. It is not right, Mrs Mendia, to call for a demonstration in defense of La Naval as they did yesterday, being the partner of a government that does nothing useful for the shipyard. You cannot call for participation, when you are very quiet in your councils without saying anything about the management disaster of your Government. Another question, Mr Urkullu. You have assumed today of self-government, transfers and competences. Please explain to us how the Galician Government and the Andalusian Government are supporting their shipyards and the Basque Government is not doing so. This lack of management of industrial policy that we are seeing in recent months is incompatible with the self-congratulation and pride with which you have recited here the employment figures, GDP and so on, with the enumeration of the dozens of plans and more plans than you presume. A good government is not measured by weight, it is not measured by number of plans, by number of planets. It is measured by human quality in listening to people who are having a bad time. It is measured by the ability to provide effective responses, to anticipate problems, to offer solutions and to take responsibility when it is screwed up. And you know, lehendakari, you and your government suspend in all these subjects. But, even more so, they refused, as we asked them in July, to make a full monograph on employment and industry. An industrial policy is not to put rumbling names in English into government programs, nor to talk about 4.0. He spoke of a strategy, RIS3, which is limited to some industrial sectors, the most pressing. Do not abandon the other industrial sectors, which are suffering the most in the crisis. A healthy industrial fabric must be diversified. Don't put all the eggs in the same basket. Now I will continue with other examples of the policies that you have outlined to us. What about equality policies and anti-machist violence! Today, Mr Lehendakari, once again, equality policies and violence against women have occupied only one line. There is not a single mention of women's rights or equality between women and men in the document of fundamental lines they have disseminated, and today you have not devoted a minute's watch to this issue in almost an hour and a half of your intervention. He hasn't even arrived in a minute. But you know what? In our country, in its Basque oasis, women account for 75% of people working without a contract, the average income of women is 40% lower than that of men, and there are about 4,000 complaints of domestic violence every year. Mr Urkullu, the institutions have to invest resources to deal with this serious problem, and yet for the draft law on sexist violence that you mentioned there is not a single euro allocated in your budget. It doesn't have a single euro allocated. It has become clear to us that the rights of half the population of Euskadi, women's, are not a priority for this Government. We were clear, and we saw it clearly: The preference of half a Euscadian is not important to this government; the privilege of women is not important to this government. A recent example: today this lehendakari is unable to stand before a mayor of his party, that of Hondarribia, and tell him that it is enough to dishearten all institutions in terms of inequality. Today we also had the Ertzaintza escorting a transfobo bus in Bilbao, instead of supporting the LGTBI sectors. But let's keep going. What about the counter-reform of the GIR! In 2011, during Mr López's irrelevant lehendakaritza, 7% of the amount paid by the most vulnerable citizens of our society was cut. Caritas pointed out that at the worst time of the crisis the Basque Government left 5,000 families uncovered. According to you, the worst of the crisis has happened; according to you, the economy is recovering; according to you, we have returned to pre-crisis levels, and yet that 7 % cut remains unconverted. But, even more so, it was his Government that had untied the amount of the minimum wage. It was you. Explain to us, lehendakari, how to fight poverty with economic benefits that are below the poverty line. And, more importantly, they have gone up to the popular party wave of blaming the poor, stigmatizing people who need support from their institutions, talking all the time about a fraud that you think does not reach 0.1% of the budget. Mr. Rementeria has begun to have a strange resemblance to Mr. Maroto. Be careful, lehendakari, it will not be that Mrs. Artolazabal ends up advancing right to Gemma Zabaleta. Perhaps today you should have taken responsibility for Lanbide's mismanagement of GIR. It is so disastrous, that the majority of complaints received by Ararteko have to do with that issue. And complaints and complaints go up year after year. It is a mismanagement that is basically practiced with the women of our society: they are almost 57% of those who perceive GIR. It is tested with 91% of those widows who receive GIR, or with those 15,553 pensioners with such a low pension, who need to supplement it, or with the 12,242 people who, although working, have jobs so precarious that they do not reach the minimum. But calmly, today we will not remind you of Mrs Artolazabal's unfortunate statements about how worthy it could be to live with 650 euros. Today we will also not shoot them with dozens of data that talk about poverty, the absence of well-being, social exclusion... No, no, Today I will bring you a fact that is enlightening as few. It's an unusual fact, but it speaks for itself. Look, between the Abandon metro station and the Astrabudua metro station in Erandio, there is a difference of about ten years in life expectancy. You know what this means? It is not as obvious as that the level of income conditions the level of health, but that dual Euskadi, the one that comes out of the crisis and goes at full speed, and the Euskadi that does not finish coming out of the hole, that inequality Euskadi is there and is undeniable. And his Government further deepened that logic of inequality. It deepens it with its harmful industrial and employment policy, it deepens it when it cuts or does not reverse the cuts in the social protection system, such as the GIR, when you do not make a clearer bet for Osakidetza or for public education. Because, as far as education is concerned, we are very surprised that in his hour and a half speech he did not mention public education once. Is this a coincidence? Well, actually, let me doubt it. The data speak for themselves. Since 2009, public expenditure on education has decreased, while average expenditure on household education has increased. Moreover, the division into two networks aims to be sold from an idea of complementarity, so social segregation is really being fostered according to the economic social conditions of students and their families. It is necessary to invest more and better in public school; it is necessary for the Education Council to work to design, with the help of the educational community, a definite and clear project for the Basque public school. Because public school is the only option that can ensure equity and social cohesion. He has spoken of reaching an educational pact; now, is the current Executive prepared to correct its budgetary priorities in public education? In health, so much the same. In the Euskadi of 2017 being a woman, having a lower level of education or being long-term unemployed increases the statistical possibility of having a worse state of health. The right to health which is resolved by investing and otherwise guiding Osakidetza, so that its workers have good working conditions and are recognized for their work, but note that this does not fit very well with the fact that in Euskadi 27% of total health expenditure is private, a percentage which is also increasing during these years. And I ask again: What has been done in this respect? At this beginning of the legislature we have registered nine health initiatives to extend dental, pedology, mental health or rehabilitation coverage to underserved social groups, such as the elderly and chronically ill; we have brought the labor problems of ambulance workers, and we have criticized the outsourcing processes of hospitals such as Urduliz. Most of these proposals you have laid down, with the invaluable help of your preferred partner and your preferred partner, the People's Party. You have refused to provide dental coverage to persons with functional diversity, pregnant women or persons over the age of sixty-five. They have refused to improve the care of diabetics or elderly people. That's his real social face. I have also quoted the People's Party several times, and I think it is important that we remember just today, a review of the senseless adventure of his party and his government in recent months. In April, when we negotiated the budgets, we pointed out the high cost of having an agreement with the most corrupt party in Europe. Shortly thereafter it was confirmed, when his party supported the accounts of a suffocated government like Rajoy's. You took heart for the renewal of the quota and for some transfers; you presumed how profitable it was to be the sole support of the People's Party government. Look, we are asking in this Parliament for a ruling and for the anti-social accounts of the Rajoy government to be reprimanded, and this House, against the judgement of its party, said no to those budgets. But you didn't care, and you continued to bargain with the People's Party. Look at us asking for Rajoy and his government's reprimand for their structural corruption, and it also happened: this House supported him by a majority, but see that you didn't care about that, and you continued to play with the devil. Note that until a few weeks ago they saw no inconvenience in continuing to reach agreements with Rajoy, despite the situation in Catalonia, and now they no longer see it as possible. The conclusion of its velences is that today we have a People's Party that paints and commands more than ever in Basque politics, a government in Madrid indecently corrupt and that is limiting in a worrying way fundamental rights such as that of assembly, freedom of the press or freedom of expression. And if all this happens is by his abstention, that of the Basque Nationalist Party and that of the Socialist Party, in the motion of censure to Rajoy, and his lack of scruples at the time of pacting with anyone in exchange for a handful of euros or a transfer up or down. Today all this crisis, unprecedented in the last forty years, would have been avoided if they had supported the motion of censure against Rajoy. And it is that today, Mr Urkullu, you have come to speak of self-government, and you have done so in some terms at least curious. He talks about the outstanding transfers, of those that have indeed ravaged the governments of PSOE and PP, but which you have accepted for decades to use as a currency of exchange for other types of agreements in Madrid. If today the current Statute is incomplete and politically devalued, it is not exclusively because of centralism in Madrid, which exists and is very strong: it is because you have agreed to enter that game. Every time you traded powers or compliance with the Statute in exchange for budgets or investments, you deteriorated the social pact around the Statute. So today it is not worth coming to this House with a victimistic tone. It is that this very month of September you continued to cherish the idea of calling for the transfer of social security and prison competence in exchange for supporting the general budgets of the State! Therefore, victimism the righteous. And in the face of that irresponsible way of acting, we want to be constructive and proactive. First, we announce that at this beginning of the political course we are going to give substance to, we are going to bring to this House the debate on the request for the transfer of prisons, but, yes, in a different key to yours. Because that is what Basque citizenship voted for in 1979, because it is a key competition to improve the lives of our common prisoners, of the thousands of common prisoners, we institutionally and seeking agreement between the parties of this House, placing as a condition that it does not mediate any kind of marketing with the People's Party. But I also tell you one thing: our group has not come to this Parliament to settle accounts of the past. Our pretension is to look to the future. And we are willing to reach agreements, yes, but certainly not at any price. Our hand is stretched out and sincere, but not for any agreement or statute. On this Saturday, Bilbon, we will present a sketch of our proposal to the State of Autogorunity, so that our militants can make their last contributions. Our commitment is to run before October 10th. But this is not even a coincidence: On the anniversary of the completion of the first Basque Government, the year of the formation of the 1936 Government. The Government was numerous, not the caricature you introduced to today for internal consumption. We want a huge deal of auto-engine, like the first Esscal Government. We want to find a large, multi and transverse contract, with more attachment than the text of 1979 obtained. In this text, we give keys to how we understand the country and to face the hinges we have. It will be a text that is very much in line with what has been heard from the experts who have appeared in the presentation at our request; a text designed to transform the current reality of Basque society into keys to more prosperity, more social justice, more coexistence, more capacity to decide, and more closeness and transparency in the management of Basque institutions. A different way of understanding self-government and building Euskadi, which is not measured by weight or by the number of competences, but rather thinks about what and the purpose of each current and new competition. Instead, you have raised self-government only as a process of national construction. We have no problem saying that Euskadi is a nation and that we can aspire to another political status, but self-government above all is a tool to bring politics and decisions closer to citizenship, it is a tool to shield our social rights. It is, above all, a tool for improving people's lives. And all this has disappeared from your speech, Mr Urkullu. You have spoken of Basque as a plural society, but today you have only thought of the legitimate demands of one side. You have not been able to speak like the lehendakari of all the Basques. Finally, we also want to make it clear that we are joining and thinking – and I agree with the words of Mr Jon Hernández – that the situation in Catalonia is serious and intolerable; that our position on this political conflict will always be that political problems are solved in a political way, and that of calling for more democracy, more dialogue (or dialogue, because there is little), and agreement. Not to any imposition, not to any train crash, and certainly not to any violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u13	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs. President. Congressmen, members of the government, Mr. Urkullu and all of you who came here today to watch on TV, good afternoon. We're a country that doesn't quit. And that's why my first words today are necessarily about Catalonia. Government of Catalonia, disarmed, public servants, arrested, house of political parties searched, civil liberties abandoned, this is not just independence. This is democracy. Democracy or not. Democracy or demophobia. We've got it all figured out. I mean today that men of the Basque Country are betting openly for democracy, for the decision of the people. Euskal Herria Bildu agrees in the defense of democracy with the Parliament and the Government of Catalonia, with dozens of cultural, scientific, sporting, professional, business and trade union entities of Catalonia, with Ómnium Cultural, with the National Assembly of Catalonia, with Workers' Commissions and the General Union of Workers of Catalonia, with Barça, and above all with the millions of Catalans who resist those who intend to steal their only weapons: their voice and their dignity. There are moments in history, which must necessarily be placed on one side or the other side, where there is no place for the antagonist. The line has already been drawn: either it is in the defence of democracy, with the Parliament and the Government of Catalonia, with the Catalan entities, or it is with the Government and the Spanish State, which intend to liquidate the civil liberties of citizens. On one side, or on the other. And, Mr. Urkullu, I'd like you to make the answer clear too. For otherwise it is not for the protection of the popular Party at the present day that it is not for the side of democracy to defend it. In any case, after hearing your speech today, I've taken it into my head to say that the Euskion is living in a kind of parallel reality-or at the moment when they're looking at Catalonia, because you've sent them an eternal message to the Spanish State and to this part of the Basque Country or the Basque People. A parallel world. And you have not given all data by the members of the EDABU, who have given multiple data, but, in fact, there are still many people in this country who have not the means to make a worthy life: The economic problem, the problem of having a house, is still a problem of unemployment, and 72% is not getting any preparation, and 63% is getting out of work for more than a year, and at the age of 30 there are still a lot of young people who don't know what to do about their future, who don't know how to be, and who don't dare to become children, we've got one of the serious problems we've got today: demography a terrible problem in the Basque Country, people who are afraid to collect pension when they're retired. And the crudest part of this, even if it has been said before, is the end of women. We women suffer the crudest part of all that happens in this society: the predestinants, all sorts of violence, are on our side. With the most black faces in this society, women are exposed to it, and we do not yet see that there are women in the midst of all these politics. And we can't decide our future. And in the daytime we are exposed to the poverty of the democracy of the Spanish State, and now at this moment, at the moment of history, an exceptional anti-democratic situation, without any hope, because the problem is spontaneous, because it is not only a Scandal Popra. There's no way to democratize Spain, which acts directly to the Basque Country. We look less and less like Europe and more and more like Spain. Instead of investing in research and development at European level, we invest more at Spanish level, and the same goes for education, culture, or the environment. A advanced people must have a very important education, an education of quality. His Government was currently implementing the Lomce, PISA's results had negatively assessed its policies, and it had the educational community on the street. And I think it is time to recognize that there have been great mistakes, that we must stop looking at Madrid and that we must start looking at Europe. The number of temporary teachers that it maintains has an impact on this quality, the lack of a model in linguistic investment costs the student, the school segregation needs active measures, we need a system that guarantees equal opportunities, and we have serious gaps and major subjects to respond to right now. Our taxes? Our taxes are actually almost based on the Spanish, nothing to do with the Europeans. Y todo esto, señor Urkullu, gracias a su Gobierno. Porque thought of puede conttinar con marketing de las "Personas prioro" o "Euskadi in the neighbourhood." But, look, Mr. Urkullu, 10 years ago, 2008, Aran, Backa, and Gipuzian, each citizen created a wealth of 31.243 euros. This was a crude internal exploit, and in 2016 it was 31.805. 10 years ago, in the tables where you like so much, in the tables of Spanish autonomouss, the Euskal Autonomy was in the first place in wealth, and now he's behind Madrid. It's the worst of all when you look at Europe, 10 years ago, 2007, the crude product of Euskal Autonomy, the average of Europe, according to the Eustat's data. And according to the final issue, we've lost 20 points. I will not deny that it has been a crisis, but it has caused London, Paris, and Portugal, for instance, to have been a specialized situation in regard to other countries. I won't deny it. But to make them all understand, either PSOE and PNV's governments, or what you have now together, you have chosen a Spanish model to face the crisis. You've devoted yourself to all the measures you've chosen by Spain in the past years, and you've continued it, and you haven't taken any steps to defend its social and industrial model. We have lost many years, and right now the European regional competitiveness index, perhaps the index that best measures our country's wealth and standard of living, puts us in position 119 out of a total of 263 European regions. Only four years ago we were in position 103. It has always been an obsession for me to invest in research and development, and look, in 2010 we were in position 88, which was also not a thing to throw rockets, but it turns out that in 2016 we are in 134. It will not be necessary to say that investment in innovation today involves tomorrow's employment and growth. Chewing ongarritzea yes. But the conditions of young researchers are not acceptable. It's the university that gives the most generous results in research today, and the investment is poor, and the rector has recently doubted whether the university could be able to go on like this. And what has the government done these nine months? Well, he's done first with the Socialist Party, because he has no majority at all, and almost as soon as he's married he's got a ménage trouis with the popular Party. You've made it with the Popular Party and the Jest Party, but also the Social Party, Mrs. Mountain. In Spain you and Pedro Sánchez must be expelled from the government, but in the Spanish Congress you directed Mariano Rajoy to be in the government. And you're comfortable in this government because the Popula Party supports you, and you're holding on to the popular Party in Spain, when, in this historic moment, democracy is in danger, where freedom of expression is attacked, the liberty of meeting and of exchanging ideas, and, after all, as I said before, in this game of democracy is at stake. And we still don't know where you put the line of proportionality. But let's continue, Mr. Urkullu. You mentioned today that economy and employment are some of your most important cares. His Government was elected in November last year; in Álava, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia in that month of November there were 922,000 members of Social Security in all its regimes, self-employed and foreign workers (922,000). And let's talk about this year's latest data, which is August 2017: 919,000 affiliates, with which they have been lost, have disappeared 3,000 jobs. Snake didazue Lanbideko boulegoetan jende gutxiago dagoela izena emanda éta enplegu-tasa hobetzen ari dela, baina Gizarte Segurantzako affiliate dira errealitatea ongien erakusten digutenak, éta datuak horiek dira: zuek Gobernuan egon zeraten egun bakoitzeko..., for every day you have been in government, including Saturdays and Sundays, ten jobs have been lost, which are women and men with names and surnames living in this country. And that's bad, but what's coming isn't any better, and they've already talked together of the Podemos, but the whole La Naval and the South, the ten companies that work for La Naval, the Gipus and Bazazia, CNA FAgor, CEL, Xey furniture in Zumia, the Electic, the Ortuella... Three thousand other workers will be out of work, or more, and it'll be a coincidence, but right or wrong, if the Eusk0's a responsibility. If only, as Esperanza Aguier said in his own time, "in vigilando." As the Basque Country is an important part of the Basque Country, the Esquimic Esquimia, which is designed for the future, requires an industrial policy. If we want to be in Europe for 20 years, we have to decide on what we're going to compete at this moment, and we have to start working on it, and then we'll get back to the quality of employment, so that it'll be over with half-day contracts and work all day long, or we'll have to work for 800 hours. I said in the excitement, and I said again: the minimum wage must be 1,200 euros, and we may try to separate it. That, either by throwing aside or surmounting the demands of the Spanish trade. And the minimum pension has to be about $180 euros and we can even try it. We don't have to be around this from Lady Sánz de Santamaría. And whether this right of Social Security will arrive. We don't have to wait. In any case, Mr. Erkorek, tell Mrs. Sánz de Santamaría to read on terms of this jurisdiction, which this Parliament has been saying a year and a half ago. For nine months you've shown the opposite of social justice, Mr. Urkullu. Confebas has been your close friend, and the majority of the Basque unions have turned back to you, so that, with the company's hands and unions, the conditions of the lives of the workers will not be improved. You seem to care little about precariousness. See if they care little, that they have the public workers (teachers, nurses, doctors) with a salary lower than they paid ten years ago, and without yet returning the full extra pay they took from them five years ago. And now they say they're going to raise their salary by 1%. Ba jakingo duzue inflation hours bath handiagoa izango of her, 2017an. Eta jakingo duzue gure semi-albaben hezkuntzaz, éta gure osasunaz arduratzen say the publiko langiko horiek guztiak. There is a data which has not been mentioned here, and which I would like to mention: 7,000 peoples in the fuera del system. There are 59,000 people outside the system, in a real state of poverty. 44% of people who are in a real state of poverty don't ask to be prepared; 10:9% of the people who are retired are poor, 20 percent of the people who hire incomes. All this is happening here, right here and nowhere else. And knowing that, we've got a lot to play for months. We have to go back to the course of rights, justice, and solidarity, and we're afraid that for the last few months we haven't seen so close to the suggestions of the Party Pooper. Eta ez dagoela dirurik ez esan, ze dirua badago eta, zertarako nahi den dirua. Sheath Urkullu lehendakariak gaur bertan esan digu zenbat hazi in economics: %3. Ba, don't I give hazkunde hours? For the money is where always, in the pockets of the usual, in those pockets that the Treasury always respects. And I think it's time to turn this situation around. It has been repeated several times that the prosecution must be restored from its foundation, so as to be truly the fundamentalst: those who are least in number pay less, and those who have the most pay the more. We're getting closer to the averages of Europe, and we're still about six points behind us. But we don't seem to want that either. We have a plan that is beginning to negotiate and begin to be considered, which may be extended, extended, and developed. What we're ready to negotiate, Mr. Subalzu, we're ready to negotiate. We'd like to talk about peace. There have been steps in the peacekeeping from November to here: and it was remarkable, that the Spanish Government has shown in this respect the negligence, negligence, imperturbing disposition, and hindering conduct, as often as it can show, that he will not continue to make peace. It is the same attitude which hitherto shows itself to the prisoners: Holding the dispersion in this way, he disdained the demands of the poor prisoners, and led them to the end of the policy of vengeance by tearing human rights. And it's hard to understand that there's no such thing in the world anywhere else. We'll see what prisons have to do with their talks about Madrid, but we think it's a matter of taking care of the way the Basque People are showing their way, the exercise, the empathy, the respect for all the victims, the entertainment and all the trouble they can get. And that he should consider the new formulas and formulas of civil society. Even in the course of the narrative of what has happened, we see temptations to accept the only relatto, and the putting one story over the other won't do him any good. We're being brave and we're still doing it. Hitz egin dezagun etorkizunaz, Euskal Herriaren etorkizunaz, munduan izan behar duen tokiaz. Etorkizunari buruzko debate honetan oztopo izango izango of Espainiako Statue. The Spanish State is so clear in its order of priorities that a pen before yesterday de facto charged even the so-called State of Autonomy of which so much boasted. The welfare of the Basque population is our principal goal, and it is necessary that we also have all the tools in our power to determine our future, which is to be a state. If not, we'll be limp. The Basque Country is a nation and consequently has a right to decide, self-determination rights. He's no more than anybody, he's less than nobody. With this starting point, we are prepared to make an agreement, and we are ready to seek agreements, but we are not ready to accept the right of veto in the name of plurality. The only change I've noticed in this matter is a change of opinion, Mr. Urkullu. When I questioned you for nine months about some things about the car garrison, you've always given me the same answer: "That's Autogobernu in Poncen. That's Autogobernu in Poncen." But as you have given your judgment, let me tell you what I thought. It may be based on historical rights, a cypherical state, so to speak, the headline of your today. And so, Mr. Urkullu, I ask you a question: Is this a state that the president proposed to us to exceed the present frame? Is that it, a state? Nazioarteko kontzeptu bat da, statuen konfederazioaren aurretik statu libreak onartzen dituena, hori da propostatzen diguzuna. Free statue bat of zuk gaur proposedzen diguzuna, Urkullu jauna? What he proposes is that we move from a regime of autonomy to a state of sovereignty that relates to other states of equal to, or not? Do you really believe that this is possible with those who send troops to Barcelona, Mr Urkullu? I do, in any case. But the plan may also be full of traps and contradictions. His historical rights have already become a mantra for your party. They have PPko Herrero de Miñón's protection, but unfortunately not much more people. And you yourself have said that the Constitutional Court has recognized the importance of historical rights, but you have forgotten to say what that same court has repeatedly held over and over again. And I will quote it with a sentence: "The very updating of historical rights is a binding consequence of the same character as the supreme norm that the Constitution possesses, a norm to which all the powers of the State are subject, because, as we note in the same sentence, the national sovereignty from which all the powers of the State emanate makes it impossible to maintain legal situations, even with proven tradition, which are incompatible with constitutional mandates and principles. And this is because the Constitution is not the result of a pact between historical territorial authorities that retain rights prior to the Constitution and superior to it, but rather a form of constituent power that is imposed with general binding force in its field, without any previous historical situations remaining outside it." In other words, historical rights do, but without prejudice to the unity of Spain in article 2 of the Spanish Constitution. That's all there is to it. And you said we should have confessed to you in the anbit of the European Union, and that our people would need a direct delegation and a direct international delegation. I quite agree with that, but there is a formula which has long since been inventoryed, and that is independence. And that's exactly what I'd expect from you. Qued habla de un tudo independente, señor Ukullu. Which urges me to reflect on Catalonia. I've been defending myself for a long time, seeing Catalonia... that the Basque Country should also be ready to be an independent state. So that we should have all the structures we need for that purpose running, we should have them ready. But eupscal politics in general, and perhaps Eukokong, in particular, has looked at Catalonia with a sort of grandeur. You were used to the usual methods of politics, you might have thought they were playing a poker game. And that's why we've heard that "in Europe today is not possible to get independence," "I don't know where Artur Mas will end," and they've always been at the moment when they might harm the trial. It is necessary, on the other hand, to attend to the possible scenarios, and to see them beforehand; otherwise it is from this point of view that difficulties arise. It can't be said that "Katarna's not coming anywhere," or that we're going to say, "We're the best negotiators," because Catalonia's here to begin with. He has obtained the dignity of a people to display democratic dignity, which is a great achievement. He has succeeded in exposing the ancient and anti-democratic structure of the Spanish State, which is a great achievement. He has succeeded in overthrowing the propensities of a state which has numerous privations, and this is to obtain a great deal. Eta hemen, bitartean, seinstarazi nahi izan diguzuea harreman bilateral zeal. They have tried to convince us that yes, that you were good negotiators, but now we see that Catalonia has managed to break the seams of a system that has very serious democratic shortcomings, that has put on the ropes the structures of the state, and that it has half the youth unemployed while giving billions to the bank. We were many who thought that the King of Spain, the Spanish State, was naked, and it was Catalonia that made clear what was happening. And in the meantime, what you have shown is that you are quite comfortable in the pan of the People's Party. Nik nahiko nukeena da zure Gobernuak argi exacta zergatik den hobea dependence-proiektu bat independence-proiektu bath. Izan ere, zure Gobernuari, edo zeuri, entzunda, Urkullu jauna, ba horixe da atera daitekeen konklusio Bakanetako bat. Begira, gauur urtebete, 2016ko irailaren 20an, El País egunkariaren azalean "Independence in the 21st century is talking about images of the past" Zenioen. Eta heneratu zenuen: "Today it is impossible for a State to declare itself independent". The same day, in a large photo of the same newspaper, we saw the Catalan Democratic Party deputy and former President, Francesc Homs, declaring that he was accused of having put a ballot box on 9 November 2014. They then disqualified him, despite being a representative chosen by the people. Then suddenly you said that you hesitated where Artur Mas finished. As a matter of fact, you don't have a Foreign Minister, Mr. Urkullu, because that phrase is diplomatically clumsy, yes, very clumsy. And I could follow it from the November... but, look, I shall come to the bower: El Mundo in Madrid, "Rajoy elogy el pacto y entendimento con el País Vasco, frente al enfentamiento antidecraico de Puigdemont." And in July, after sneaking up with Rajoy, the headline of El Correo, when he discovered the secret meeting, or received the necessary leak, "El PP alaude la cita Rajoy-Ukullu y la pone de pourlo fruite a Puigdemont." You're the star Party type, Mr. Urkullu, your government is what the popular Party wants. And in September, because September was almost insuperable. First of all, Radio Euskadin, Parliament of Catalonia, within 48 hours of the Reformed Act, without any protection or advice: we need dialogue. But do you think that the President Puigdemont, or Artur Masi, or the Parliament of Catalonia, can be told on the return of so many years? I hope they didn't ask for the interview. How many times have they asked for an interview? How many times have they asked for an interview in that plune? And we're going to need a conversation, but you can't ask both sides for an interview, Mr. Urkullu, no! Kataluniako Parlamentuak Erreferendumarien Law onartu zuen egunean, irailaren 6year, Eusko Jaurlaritzak ez zuen hitzik esan horri buruz, edo ez zitzaizuen inportantea irudituko edo deskolokatuta zeundeten, edo ez dakit ba. Gero etorri zen zure txio famatua eta gero, "Well, yes, but no, but we'll see...". And finally, you again choose a date of maximum symbolism, September 11, National Day of Catalonia, to take off with that of respect for legality. That while a million people were demonstrating in Barcelona, with all their institutions at the forefront. Making friends, Mr Urkullu, but of course making them in Madrid. He was applauded for his intervention on the 11th. And see that it seemed difficult to overcome, but on the 14th, with President Puigdemont complained, the president of the contested Parliament, more than seven hundred mayors threatened to be arrested, printers and media registered and closed, on the 14th of September, and you come to explain to us that the Catalan referendum has no guarantees. And, of course, all unionism makes him the wave. And it happens again with the day, because it's the same day that the election campaign begins, the same day that the Prosecutor's Office fights against the president of the Association of Catalan Municipalities and against the president of the Association of Municipalities for Independence, and they also close their seats. This attitude is very serious, Mr Urkullu. It is so even from a material point of view, because the referendum in Catalonia has all the guarantees of this kind of process in a Western democracy, and also a commission of international observers, led by Daan Everts (Ambassador of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, NATO's highest civilian representative in Afghanistan, a collaborator of the European Union and the United Nations, a very high-ranking diplomat whose opinion – I will be allowed, Mr Urkullu – will be at least as qualified as yours), and they will ensure that the referendum is held with all guarantees. Look, the only thing left for the Catalan referendum is the arrests, threats, fines, disqualifications and terror generated by the Spanish State. That's all that's left of the Catalan referendum. I find your conduct especially uneasy; You're the president of the Eukullus, Mr. Urkullulu, you're the president of all of us, and Spanish Socialism has reused your attitude against Catalunia. You mentioned Mr. Junker often today when you met him. Well, Mr. Junker, the President of the European Committee, the US diplomat has gone far beyond you in this sense. The Scottish government has made a formal statement about Catalonia, even though it was 2,000 miles away. "Let's be honest," you said, Mr. Urkullu. Well, let's be honest. Giving oxygen to the People's Party is incompatible with defending democracy. And you said yesterday you didn't have to throw more gasoline into the fire. Well, look, there's no fire without oxygen, Mr. Urkullu. Without oxygen, there's no fire. And let us be honest and acknowledge once and for all that you do not want independence for Catalonia, which bothers you that you have come so far, because this leaves in evidence, Mr Urkullu, this shows that everything you have tried to explain to us during all these years, that a pact here, that a settlement there, that this was the best... Well, maybe there are other ways, there may be other ways. If Catalonia is independent and sits in the United Nations and we continue to represent Mr Rajoy, his policy remains in evidence. You are afraid of the independence of Catalonia, Mr. Urkullulululululullus, because you are afraid of Catalonia, because it is the only way you have said it for so many years. And it's gonna be okay. It'll be all right sooner or later. Tell us where you are, where is the Jestric Party of the Euric, where are you at this moment, in a democracy or incorrigation? It's important. And it's important that we have to talk about a new state, Mr. Urkullululululululululu, and that the gates closed to Catalonia have been closed to the Basque People. I told you before, tell us where we are. In the legislature or in the eternal, which we shall proclaim a state? In the legislation or in another, we will defend the right of self-determination? Do we have to continue to be a autonomy of the Spanish State, or do we start to become a state? And don't forget, there's no political project here. It's not just independence at stake. What is here in play is democracy, and the state facing us has a commercial problem in this sense, as it has shown by centuries. The question is whether democracy is or is not, and whether democracy is possible with the Party or not. The women and men of this country, ladies and gentlemen of the government, deserve a more ambitious government, and not this sadness and greyness in which they have involved this country. I have mentioned Rosa Parks before now, and in these few days I have found an assertion which he made: The more we obeyed, the worse we were treated. I think it's enough to think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u16	Good afternoon, everyone. It is clear that he must be of all sorts in the Euscal politics, but some of you have the most marked role in the care-givers. Observators, interrogators... Proposals? None. No proposal. Now, the questions, the conscience of others, are many. Well, we'll talk about that later. I'd like to begin with the three basics the president showed early today. They were: I believe that it is proper for us to act in politics or in the community; political stability is not to be at ease, but only to send clear messages from institutions to society, to get an explanation in this process of sharing, i.e. instead of counting them, to be a multiplication of society, and the agreement of institutions. He mentioned four pillars: but this economic activity must be encouraged, it must be aroused, it must be strengthened, it must be organized, the life and the human rights, and the thoughts about the new self-gorganization and state. The other day, before summer, I asked the President myself how he saw his project at the first semester, and then I said: It's a good thing to see a joke on the bill about having it written, to admit it, to have 15 plans on it, of course (and some of those projects in this Chamber will be discussed in order to contribute), to explain even the legal calendar, and to have the first presussion accepted, and 18. even the foundations of the presupuest are supported for years. It was a government of both political parties. It is clear, therefore, that we have no absolute majority, that we must speak and agree with other parliamentary groups. He's explained the challenges as well. That's why I think it's the right diagnosis, but somebody who's working at home can bring up these targets, and this government has done jobs from home, because it has a government program, a 14 plans... And then I'm not going in, because it's too much of a clue, but I'm also watching what kind of opposition there is here. And in my opinion, this government has a natural advantage over what opposition it is being opposed to. But, well, everyone will see how they design their strategy. He mentioned education. As the first care of education, and from the hands of the department, and from the government, he wishes to encourage a share of conversation, in order to find these necessary and indispensable conquests; I see others: The first of September, for instance, the unions, what plans they have, what strike they're going to strike, whether in kitchens or in schools or transportations... Well, that's another plan. But he wants to share with me, and a better educationing system, to get the results he needs, he sees the interview inevitable. Demonstration has been mentioned, youth, family, and Immigrations, and digitalizations, industry plan, as well here as Lander Martíne, mentioned companies, and as I, and as I see EH gathered in these reflections, is not welcome to say... If we really believe in industry, we have to be clear that if we don't get involved in a nationalization process, it's clear that fun can't represent industry, it can't represent small or medium companies. Substructures, help, internationalization, I+D+i, offer the necessary protection. But, what are we asking? That's crazy. And what I see is that you want to imagine, every time, by the hand of media, a company or a shop has the problem, and by the hand of the media you get a little sound, bad news or worries. Well, the interview is absolutely required, but I'm just saying, institutions can't replace the company. Everyone has to do their job. It's a different thing to do when you're gone: to provide help, to create a context, to transmit or start infrastructure... That's what you're gonna do. And the president has mentioned how Europe is also a brexite and the rest of it. Junker says a lot of things, but Junker mentions a few times in that particular Europe, this Europe is out of order, it's going backwards, and the states, in a way, are trying to provide a little bit of a la carta. How do you want to be: in this, in this? It does not appear to be the courage and speed of a political Europe, at least, because states have their own problems. And here Europe can leave Europe behind, which alone is the "estado de bienestar" created after the Second War. A lot of rights can be questioned. And in that perspective we must know how to manage that column, that social column, that social protection. And, Mr. Lander Martínez... I think the phrase is from Pope Francis; he says that "there is no better antidote for populism than social policies." And when in a parliament and in a country we have – not since yesterday, not for five years, but for three decades – a system that has been dressing, that has been improving and that is becoming more and more just, there is no room for populism. There may be room for initiatives or modifications, but tell me on what political latitude your parties or co-religionaries govern look like even a social protection system such as that of the Basque Autonomous Community, or the one we have achieved by mutual agreement also, in Navarre, Bildu, Podemos, Izquierda-Ezkerra and Geroa Bai. Tell me. Let's not demagogue about that stuff. Hori beats. Fiskalitatea aipatu da ere, bi estatan shenera: in R+D+i and in what is the tax pressure. I am asking many times to those of the government, to those of the deputies: "Hey, can you explain to me how the different fiscal pressure that is said with data can be sustained, when the indices later, the S80/S20 and the Gini indices, whether of measurement of inequality or of disposable income, result in us being placed in all the leading positions? Egia yes, hor gertatzen dena, éta nik uste due hor erratuta zaudela, Iriarte andrea, exacten duzunean, huta ére R+D+i aipatu duzunean. Jakina, gu baldin bagoaz match konkretuetara, Arantza Tapiaren frompartamenduan dagoen match horretara, izango da hainbesta. Zenbatuta dauzkazu, adibidez, kenkarietan, elkarte-zerga tarteko, kobratzen ez say diruak? Because it is obvious that what is deduction, what is deduction, does not appear in the expenditure item. As in the tax pressure of the IRPF, if we eliminate deductions from housing or family support, obviously the tax pressure rises four or five points. That is why, when measured in indices of inequality, we are among the countries with the lowest inequality in Europe and the world, and among the leading countries also in disposable income. So with the prosecutors, I could at least be more careful. And I've asked to hire the data. It's true I've had a hard time, why, if there's no comparison between them, each of them can do the same thing here as he likes. Therefore, as far as social politics and the state of justice are concerned, I think in common, as far as I can, because there is a reflection open in the prosecution. It is true that the jurisdiction is the most historical country, but we are making an essay on the two political parts of the government, if there is to be any reform or adjustment, whence? We all know that these changes of pressure from the prosecutor or the prosecution are very limited, and that our choices at this moment are not terrible, but this must be agreed on in different historical countries, and the origin or acquirement of the majority requires the agreement of different political parties. Peace and fellowship. And human rights too. We think this area really needs a push. For the last few years, during the last five or five years, we've got a few challenges from which a push is needed, except that the atmosphere is quieter. And I already know that at this time..., and in others too, but I will also be persevering and I will address the People's Party, because we sincerely believe that on the subject of the presentation of memory and human rights the PP has to be an asset and not a liability. It has to be an asset. Because I don't know what kind of reasons they decided not to participate in the paper, and I think they should participate, even because of institutional responsibility. I say institutional responsibility because they have things to say and to contribute, and they also have to help us convince the Central People's Party to make another prison policy possible. Look, there's a fact: the very survey the Victims of Terrorism Memorial Center has done is telling you how the electorate of the People's Party here thinks, and I think it's a long way from the political positions you're managing. That's what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying. I do not formulate it as an imperative necessity. I am making a political reflection, and I believe that the People's Party, instead of being a passive party, should be an asset. And I don't want to have any trouble with the name EH Gonzánnik, but I don't want to have any trouble looking at the patriotic left, just as the prisoners took steps, at least some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, and they're not armed, and I still don't think that the disappearance would do us any good to all, but especially if it was a politically patriotic left hand, I think it would be just as if we were going to take a few steps in it, and the thoughts would be a little easier, because I didn't take photographs with Timochen, but after he had taken the photographs of Timochen, and would have used them with his own thoughts in the square. I'd like to leave them with those two tips. I say this with absolute clarity, because that is called the critical review of the past, we say it and we formulate it as a request to be able to build a shared future in what is democratic political action, and we believe that we can and must move forward there too. Let's pass to the new political state section that has been so quoted. Man, the field of play is the Spanish State; the scope of decisions, interferences, resources or not resources, impediments or the need for agreements... One wonders: has the Spanish State developed democratically so that we can tackle from the democratic principle, combining it with the principle of legality, a reform of scope? Has it matured democratically? has it modernised? has it adapted to the new times? Is it approved? Well, as seen in Catalonia, it doesn't seem. I believe that neither advanced nor democratised nor modernised. Salmond himself said this week: "The idea that the Spanish Government and Mr. Rajoy seem to have, that they can suppress a feeling by not letting vote, is of the pre-democratic era, something of the past in Spain. We thought he had made progress." Surprise hartzen dute, baina Parlamentu Honek esperientzia badauka of the statutory reform of December 30, 2004, rejected without even admitting to process the proposal of reform of the Statute, restoring or rescuing again the People's Party and the Socialist Party the previous recourse of unconstitutionality, so that there is another superior cedade so that nothing escapes. It is clear that when the margins are narrowed, the democratic channel disappears. So, what we're proposing is we know it's a difficult, complicated company, but we don't like the role of observers, saying, "Do it yourself, and if you come and fail, we'll see, you'll have to give me the right. You do it, try it"... No, let's share. Share what do we have to share? When we are talking about democratic principle, we are talking about a pillar, the decision of Basque citizenship; we are talking about the obligation to negotiate, to agree on the precise, necessary legal adjustments – including, if necessary, the constitutional ones – in response to the desire expressed by Basque citizenship. Because that is the core of the democratic principle applied in Quebec, Canada. There is a prevailing legitimacy that feeds and obliges the modification of the always negotiated legality. Negotiating... And this is important, given Catalonia, because in Catalonia, too, the compressed account leads you to think that, well, these have gone crazy and there they are trying to carry on the impossible. No, no! Negotiating under the premise of the democratic principle excludes and avoids unilaterality. If the democratic principle is applied, unilaterality is excluded. Unilaterality is a consequence of a failed path of bilaterality, because denial, or denying or banning or anathematizing what may be an agreement, or such application of democratic principle, opens the door to unilaterality. And that is what has happened in Catalonia: there has been no possibility of negotiation! It is not that the democratic principle has been trampled on. Secondly, respect for plurality. Respect for plurality. That is, dialogue, negotiation, agreements with maximum consensus if possible, but, in the absence of these (there can therefore be no right of veto), in the absence of these, the principle of democratic majority prevails. Another thing is that the spirit has to be to seek agreements and consensus, but without the right to veto. And obviously in the proposal that the Basque Nationalist Party also deposited... almost two years ago I was going to say, but in January 2016, we talked about a power fund and we talked about rights (individual, social and economic rights) that have to have their projection in the new status. And we are also talking about an enabling consultation, because we understand that it can be the first exercise of definition and right to decide on Basque citizenship, that it can participate even in the formation of that project, and that it can then sanction, through an enabling consultation, the text that will be negotiated. And the Spanish State or the powers of the Spanish State should be asked whether they are prepared to accept that democratic principle combined with the principle of legality. Hori da guk introduced duguna. Now, who have we proposed to change the current status? It was basically the Basque Nationalist Party. We, we, we put forward the proposal. EH Bildu joined the debate because there was also an opportunity in 2004 but no amendments were tabled. Then there was another strategic combination and it didn't touch. But, well, that's the past. Now it is supposed that there will even be an update of the proposal registered in January 2016 also by Bildu. So, we'll see exactly, black on white, what each one proposes. The People's Party already knows what it has proposed, and Idoia Mendia has referred to the position of the Socialist Party. And Lander Martínez has announced that this Saturday there is a public presentation that we will meet later. Well, there we go. That's where we're going to see each other. And we do believe in a number of principles that I have cited (democratic principle, principle of legality, obvious), but we are talking about a nation... Because, Lander, looking at us you said, "I'm willing to recognize that Euskadi is a nation." Man, I don't know what it is! Either it's a demonstration, or it's a drop, or it's a tolerance exercise, right? But, well, we're going to have to talk about this, about political subject, legal subject (okay), right to decide, we agree on the exercise, how, what we present to citizens, how they can participate, and where all those rights are embodied. We make a determined bet, because we are – we understand – an older people, who want to be responsible for their decisions, for those that affect their citizens; we need to manage that responsibility, in all matters that affect citizens on a day-to-day basis and, of course, also in decisions that affect the political development of the Basque people. We're talking about the Basque people. Also of Basque society, but who has that right to decide is not society, it is the Basque people through their citizens. The political subjects are those, unless there's something new. Eta hori da guk proposedzen duguna, laburki esanda. Eta denbora aurrera doa, and as the lehendakari has also made a contribution that has given to speak... Some have opted for the simple disqualification; others..., Mrs. Iriarte, therefore, has asked her whether fifteen or eighteen questions regarding the confederal state. He said – I have gathered here – "The exit of the territorial political labyrinth lies on the horizon of the confederal state". Well, we understand the right to decide as the obligation to propose to your citizens, to your fellow citizens, the political proposal that, taking into account the conditions of the present, serves to overcome the obstacles presented to us. Proposals with viable routes, which exist political will, are feasible. For we make that proposal from that democratic principle and also on the basis of sovereignty and social justice. What's he proposing? In short, when we are talking about a confederation we are talking about states that retain their sovereignty, states that retain their sovereignty and are governed by certain common laws. Hori yes. Eta esan dute "Ez dago adibiderik". Well, Europe bera da adibide garbienne. Europe's drunk. Ez dut esan zuk esan duzunik; batzuek beasts. Of course, the confederal approach is that membership has to be voluntary; what cannot be is that membership is compulsory. So, this is a change... I don't know, it's also very strong for the People's Party, but it's a paradigm shift. It's going from "I'm going to agree in Spain" to "I'm going to agree with Spain", and having a good neighborhood agreement, with common laws. Well, that's the confederal bond that basically also underlies the economic concert and the convention. Even the detractors of the confederal formula at least recognize that confederal bond exists. Although they are remnants of sovereignty (the concert and the convention), they exist. And the anchor where is it? In historical rights. The anchor is in the historical rights, the additional first... Then he read us a sentence. Man, I, in addition to the sentence, have the text that used Agirre (Agirre, the lehendakari, so many times alluded to recently by EH Bildu), which makes use of a reflection by Alcíbar, which is the pseudonym of Rafael Picavea (a nationalist who loves the furos, obviously, oiartzuarra), who said, and Agirre makes his own: "Outside means freedom, faculty, sovereignty. Everything that the people put in place by their will, without being forced to submit to what was the will of the people of yesterday, will be out of the question. (...) The essence of fury is not in the history of its existence, but in which it implies freedom, self-determination at all times; whatever the people want, and what they want today. (...) Foral is not a certain law, but all those that the people vote subject to their democratic mode." This is the interpretation that we have, that obviously the Constitutional, if we ask you if it is constitutional, will tell us no. The thing is, there's a will. There's anchoring, there's anchoring! Political will is needed. Therefore, change of paradigm: to agree in Spain we have to move on to agree with Spain. And, we must also say, we need state structures. But this is not a whim, it is a necessity, because we are an older political community, and if citizenship mostly needs state structures to govern itself, where is the problem? Where's the problem? That's not a whim! I also believe that this formulation serves to emerge from that judicial and political maze in which the State of Self-Government has become. Because the thirty-six earrings there are in some cove, in that maze, in some gloomy corner, or go find out where, but they have been lost in the judicial and political maze. Revitalization, rearrangement, transcending Title VIII of the Constitution, is necessary. That is the proposal that can be negotiated, or at least discussed prior to the negotiation. Hori da esan nahi nuena horri buruz. And then Catalonia. What I would say about Catalonia: A tremendous respect for the proceedings, and at the same time admiration, for Catalonia is a multiple people, and they've worked like no one else in the past decades. And even tried to present political proposals. So, today... It is not the whole Catalonia, it is true, and I don't want any threat to anyone, even if it's a public or a citizen, but it's clear at this moment that a great violence and democratic rights have been violated. And that has its explanation. Baina Kataluniako hiritargoa nola werentzuten ari den, hori benetan da eskerrak emateko, demokrata bezala, ez jada abertzale bezala, demokrata bezala. Zergatik beraien borrokak eta iraunkortasunak, perseverance, zergatik hori bertute bat da (it is not foolishness, it is perseverance not to leave things to half, try to advance that shared goal), that deserves all respect. And, of course, thanks to that majority that for the past five or six years has been positioned for the right to decide in Catalonia. Horregatik mouth wrong. Because here we have a problem. And I say "we have" because the People's Party, which we join, is not known why... [[Barres]] No, it's just... Good. See, you're building a story that you don't believe; a story that says, "Well, these have an agreement, and agreements for life." No: we have an agreement, the budgetary agreement of 17, by the way, not yet completed. That's the only deal. You see the last sessions of the Congress of Deputies or the Senate, what positions the Basque Nationalist Party has held in times or states of need of the People's Party. By the way, Lander Martínez, you come here and look at the Basque Nationalist Party... The PNV voted against Rajoy's investiture. And you from Podemos had the chance that Rajoy wasn't president voting for Sanchez, and they didn't. (Berbotsa) They didn't! Don't give me that chance, don't hand me the responsibility. And in all the votes in which you and we have recently participated, whether it be protests or whatever, we have participated by conviction and coincidence. Point. By the way, if that's the case, don't come asking us every week to see how we're doing in prison politics with the PP. If we break up, we break up, even for those relationships. Because this "let's see if we loosen up, let's see if we do"... And, txukun éta koherente izanda, utzi beharreko guztiak utziko ditugu utzi behar denean! The gauza bath beats institutional harreman and beasts beats political harreman. Eta harreman politicokoek akordio beat their duets, éta besterik ez dago. Eta lehen esan dut, éta bakarren batek gaizki ulertu dit, and I said (they asked me about the 2018 budget) "That's a futurable." And for the future the dictionary says it's something that's not going to happen, unless the present conditions are changed. And if there is no change in the conditions of the present the budgets do not know if they will be a chimera, they will be a futurable. Bai? Ulertzen yes? Eta bitartean bakoitzak, ardurak beer. And all that we have to say about Catalonia, but we believe in the way they have done it, and we have already said that if we had our champion in hand it would be a vote for an independent state which will have the form of a republic. And I'd like to finish it with: You should be ashamed to accuse PNV so many times of questioning and insulting the history of Catalonia. Just take a look at yourself and answer this question: Why no one wants to take pictures of you when you went there. Everyone here has his own history, and when we go there, either by the government or by the parlamentary group, we are well taken. I won't say you won't be welcome, but ask, and if you don't look why you're not there in this campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. I'm done talking about the legal teams, Mr. President of AKY has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u18	Congressmen, chief of staff, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. As always, I've listened to the speech of the spokesman of all groups with great attention. First of all, I want to emphasize, even if it seems a lie, that we agree on many subjects. I have also seen the differences, logical, within the circle of diagnostics and prioritys, and the measures to be taken. And since I have followed it carefully, I have, as I think, the voters of each legislative party well taken, and shall then endeavour to answer to each class of the legislature in some measure. Baina, nolanahi era, laburabilduz, cuckoo. I have heard from the People's Party first a reflection on what representative democracy is, and an appeal to which I have to choose. And tell me what to do, Mr. Alonso. The same has also been said to me by other speakers; do not leave yourself with the exclusive. With regard to Catalonia it has made a division between the lehendakari, the position that the lehendakari has maintained, and the position that the Basque Nationalist Party maintains, which it has criticized even for taking the side of the most intransigent. He has made a reflection on what dialogue, negotiation, what the rule of law is, whether it is possible to speak in democracy in compliance with the law... Well, he has expressed the will for dialogue, but he has also contrasted it with the thesis of conflict, and we return to the thesis of conflict. And he has also handled two concepts, such as that of reason and that of law. As for the new status, he has told us that we are confused, or I can at least be confused; he has remixed it with the right of self-determination, and has remixed or linked the right of self-determination with secession. And that led to a conclusion, and what we want is for Spain to commit suicide. Well, you have also made a reflection as to whether or not you are opposed to independence and confederacy, which has united you. You have returned to the Statute saying that the legal-political framework is outdated. And then he has already entered another field, such as that of terrorist violence, the authoritarian model, and the reference to the memorial presentation with the rapprochement of prisoners, amnesia and story as central elements in his exposition regarding what seems to be the work of the memorial presentation. As far as the social model is concerned, you have claimed that it should be a more liberal social model that we should engage, with less interventionism, curiously in contrast with other groups in the House. And then we have already entered the field of gross domestic product, employment, taxation, comparative growth (you have offered a series of data), to move later to education, PISA, plurilingualism, equity, employment as well, Lanbide (has called it failure)... It has come within the framework of social assistance with an appeal also to the model of the Bizkaia Provincial Council, to link it also with the ageing population and the policies of support to families. Finally, you, Mr Alonso, have raised the question of budgets, making a statement that I mentioned this very morning, and that is that we do not have a majority. And in this sense it has also linked it with the tax reform, with the conditions supposed for the approval of the budgets of this year 2017... I have the background document of what was the agreement between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party on the 2017 budgets. And he has advocated a rationalization of spending in a scenario of moderation and stability. Mr Hernández, from Elkarrekin Podemos, began by criticizing the Spanish Government and its unusual abuse. It does not share the policies of the Basque Government, and accuses the Basque Government of living under the influence of the People's Party. It has entered the field of firms in crisis, and it has said that the situation of firms in crisis is a consequence of the industrial policy of this Government. It has continued with precariousness, gender inequality, working conditions, strikes... Lastly, it had addressed the issue of education, particularly on the basis of public education and the outsourcing of services in general, both in education and also in the field of health. El Senor Lander Martínez. He said, or you said, Mr. Lander, that these are serious problems, that we live in self-internity. You've planned that we're not going to be able to solve the problem like a Eusk0, and you've used a lot of headlines, titles, headlines, and headlines that make it a mess of reality. Then you have passed into another sphere, and you have said that a great part of the eupscal society does not bear the good effects of economic growth. It has proposed a comparison of areas with problems; we return to a list of firms in crisis, in addition to the reference of the thirty-six firms in crisis to which I referred at the end of August. He mentioned Fagor-Edesa, CEL and La Naval, and in the specific case of La Naval he called it disaster, with a story of part, and also putting the example of shipyards, but without saying that it is public shipyards that affect Galicia or Andalusia. It has also mixed it with the RIS3 and the message that we have from RIS3 of intelligent specialization, and then it has already entered into what is the macho violence and in the reference on equality, the lack of my intervention in this field; public education, and public education and health, and also in relation to the support of the Basque Nationalist Party to the budgets of the Spanish Government and the relations between the parties, confusing them with what is the relationship of the Basque Government with the Spanish Government in the field of institutional representation that belongs to us. RGI, poverty, and finally, on self-government again the marketing with the People's Party and the deterioration of the pact. He has shown himself, yes, willing to reach agreements, and has made a reference to what was the government of the lehendakari Agirre, the first government in 1936, with a plural government. And finally, again Catalonia on stage. Gather the Basque Country, Mrs. Irrez. The notes I took: They're starting to tell you about Catalonia and you've declared a defense for democracy. And all the questions you've asked this day and again published, you proclaimed a clear answer to an independent state, which would almost have made me ready, or be my bet. You said we lived in a parallel reality, you said, and you said we lived in a parallel world. You've taken a picture of people who are in trouble for a decent life, and from there you've come back to Catalonia. Then, after your final involvement, you've spoken about diplomacy. You accused me of various things in the field of diplomacy. You then went on to compare us with both Europe and Spain, and you said that we look less like Europe and we look like Spain. And you've talked about investing in research, in culture, in the environment, applying Lomce this government, PISA, education... You've made a ten-year-old comparison corresponding to the raw internal product, you've mentioned investment and development, investigation and funding. You've also mentioned our agreement between the Jelt Party and the Basque Socialist Party. In economics, employments, jurisdictions, social justice, you've connected us with Confebask, and you've attached us to the reality of business terms and conditions, together with the Confebask, prefect, public employments, pay, payments, poverty, petitions... You have proclaimed solidarity and solidarity in rights. And then you asked where the money is in the county of the prosecutor, and you yourself answered who the money is in. In the field of peace, prisoners and human rights, victims and civil society... And about the future: the dignity, self-determination, and my judgment, whether I want a Basque or a free State, and you asked me where we are. You have mentioned the autonomy constitution or excess of sovereignty, and then you have mentioned, as you have already remembered, a resolution of the Constitutional Court, but at the same time, or of what is reflected in this resolution, I believe it is manifest in your reference to a system of guarantee. You've even spoken of independence and independent State. and you have mentioned several things which I have done to Catalonia, or which I have done to you, and which you have opposed with indifference. And you said about Catalonia that he did or did "revenian Las Costuras." Then you say that dependence and independence are a serious and disturbing position. And finally, you're done saying we should "Gobierno más ambiciso." So I'll examine the themes that are to be proposed, and always focusing on the discussion. This is a dispute on the general policy of Euskakia, and it is my desire to make use of this opportunity to discuss the matters which directly affect the Basques. In my speech, I have mentioned the question of the state's state and the model of Catalonia in the morning. They are important parts of the context, and they affect us, that's why I'm talking about them and I'll mention them again. Then I'll focus on the themes we've discussed in the Eukadin. But let me tell you about the state of Catalonia, the state of Catalonia, is still the same as it has never returned. It's extremely troubling, but it's still more troubling (to me) what happened at Congress the day before yesterday in Congress. It was not there that they agreed to take the route to the political conversation in order to agree to a response to the most important problem of the organization we've known since the transition. This is the only way to interview, negotiation, and agreement. We make a public appeal from Euskadi, and, considering the general situation, the offer to our cooperation remains on the table, both of them and others. The situation in Catalonia. In this House we have heard different views about the reality of Catalonia, from the unilateral rupture – without being mentioned this way – to what, by contrast, would be the sacred unity. And there's something that should unite us, and it's the word dialogue. We are political and institutional representatives, and our job is to offer political and institutional solutions. The situation in Catalonia continues to move towards a point of no return, and everything is getting out of hand. Everything's getting out of hand. It is extremely worrying, but it is more worrying, as I said in Basque, that the Congress of Deputies did not admit the path of political dialogue to solve the main institutional problem since the transition. From this concern, which I believe is shared by the majority of citizens, I call for the urgent restoration of the channels of dialogue, negotiation and agreement, for which, to the extent of the general situation, we continue to show our willingness. I argue that this political conflict with high social roots requires a negotiated political solution. The fundamental challenge is to avoid any form of social or political fracture, any risk and any form of social or political fracture, whether internal or between different territorial or institutional areas, and I have always argued that consultation with citizens must, after a process of dialogue and negotiation, be a meeting point. Catalonia. We are facing a long-distance and uncertain institutional crisis. Bridges have been dynamized, and it's time to rebuild bridges, it's time for politics. Time to seek political solutions through a process of dialogue that leads to a legal and agreed consultation, which combines in principle democratic and the principle of legality. I have provided a reference to the Quebec Clarity Act, for example, not to mention it, and the example of the legal and agreed referendum in Scotland, United Kingdom. The complexity of the current scenario affects us all. The responsibility is also shared by all. The solution to the political loop, in an area as sensitive as sovereignty within the European Union, requires the cooperation and cooperation of all, requires a genuine will to reach political agreements. And so, in addition to putting forward the dialogue forum that I have proposed, I am going to reactivate the efforts and reflections that I have been moving from the first day, and also from the previous parliamentary term, to the areas with which I have held working meetings, whether it be the head of State, whether it be the president of the Spanish Government, or the president of the European Commission, or the diplomatic corps. My aim is to share a reflection based on institutional responsibility, which allows us to open up a space for political dialogue in order to find new answers to the need to recognise national realities in Europe and to give expression to their legitimate aspirations. We have enough examples and models to show that it is possible to combine the democratic principle and the principle of legality, so that on this basis the nations without a state are recognized and have, in a scenario of clarity, the capacity to define their own future. In short, there has been another allusion to the government's work and the two realities of the government. Yes, we're a government between the two parties. And we are the government which acts among the two different parties to the political contractors. Stable government, efficient government and strict government. We've agreed to the specific program, we're a majorless government, and I've already admitted it this morning's rehearsal. And we're fully convinced that we're working for the deal over and over again. We've made the spirit of the neighborhood. It's the identity of this town and we want it back. I'd like to thank the Social Party and the Jeltist Party and the Euccan Party for their efforts and protection, and then I'll do it again. Look, it's been 10 months and the basics of the government program are already approved and operational. And I want to emphasise an idea: That more than 80% of commitments and initiatives are running. We're doing it with a strategy and we're doing it with determination and we face it to the future mills of Euskadia. Having accepted problems, I have spoken of problems in the train train train, without self-collecting, and I shall now mention them also, with confidence and assurance in the management. The Government endeavors to answer the demands and the exigencies of the people, where we are acquainted with the realism and the spirit of cooperation. I reiterate that, after ten months of government (and I remember, we have been in government for ten months), we realize the degree of compliance with our program, and we work with a strategy and a course, and – I sincerely say – without complacency and rigour. This is a stable government, it's an active government, and it's a demanding government. We govern in minority, yes, I have recognized it this morning, and we know that it is necessary to dialogue, it is necessary to agree, it is also necessary to collaborate, and I appreciate the commitment to this way of governing. Faced with the criticisms that have been expressed by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups, giving a negative or catastrophic view also in some case of the reality of Euskadi, I believe that Euskadi faces his future in a positive way. We have lived very hard years; until yesterday, and I want to remind you, until March 2013, Euskadi was in recession (in recession: companies were shut down and jobs were destroyed), and the trend has changed. But – I said this morning – I did not hide the problems, because it is not enough, even though the trend has changed. Family problems, business problems, persist, but we are emerging from the crisis because of everyone's effort, and we are facing the future with greater illusion. And I want to claim the effort that this country has made in the hardest moments of the crisis, which is not precisely the hardest crisis that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (Euskadi) has experienced in the past thirty-eight years. Thanks to this effort, one, essential social services are guaranteed. They're guaranteed! We have not been able to do everything we want to do, but we must guarantee the essentials: 76% of the budget's operating expenditure is for social policies (76%!))). This year we allocated 170 million more to health and education than the previous year; we allocated 45 million more to employment and social policies than the previous year. Every year we have allocated more resources, there have been no cuts. As much as they want to keep extending that mantra, there have been no cuts. Two, the economy grows and jobs are created. We've been close to companies with difficulties. True, we still have problems, there are industries that have been dragging problems for decades (for decades, Mr Hernández, Mr Martínez, for decades). Let's not forget, until the first quarter of 2013 Euskadi was in recession; today it grows to 3%. And, let's not forget, in March 2013 unemployment broke records; today jobs are created, and there are 46,000 people stopped less than then. And, I admit, it is not enough and we have to go on, and – I said this morning – I will not say that we have emerged from the crisis until we can definitely say that we have recovered all the jobs lost during the crisis. Today we have an industrial policy, we are driving new sectors of activity. Our bet is smart specialization, training, innovation, digitisation, internationalisation, and that is what our industrial policy reflects. Today we have a stronger, more attractive, more competitive Basque economic ecosystem. Three, in the area of coexistence we have a scenario of better coexistence since the disarmament of ETA. And, Mr Alonso, I recognize the shortcomings, and I have also underlined the progress made. The disarmament of 8 April has been a further step towards the unilateral, effective and definitive dissolution of ETA that I continue to demand. The consensus on the role of the victims of terrorism has been strengthened, we have made progress in memory policies, and I have also spoken against the removal of prisoners. Four, we have a self-government paper with the participation of all. For the first time, we all share an open multilateral dialogue in the self-government presentation, and we have an agreed script and timetable. And it is up to us here in Parliament to move forward on a new legal-political framework for the future for Euskadi. The first step is to present an agreed institutional proposal. And I have no problem in making the contribution of my thoughts participated this morning. This is a moment of momentum for a new political future for Euskadi, a future that is all the more exciting the more agreement-making capacity we have here in Parliament. On the budget chapter, as one of the areas also addressed by the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups, I have pointed out the 2018 budget as a possible meeting point, and I reiterate it. But first a finding. The government negotiated the 2017 Budget present with all groups, and we will do it again. And the agreement was not possible with all, it was not possible with all, but I want to remember, for example, a clear radical position, as was a radical position of Elkarrekin Podemos in the first conversation we had for the governance of Euskadi, saying that the economic-social model of the Basque Nationalist Party at the time was radically opposed to that of Elkarrekin Podemos and it was not possible even an area of encounter, of dialogue. And that was so, Mr. Lander Martínez. And I would like to recall, in relation to what was the negotiation of the 2017 budget, that EH Bildu, in the course of the debate on the amendments and the vote on the partial amendments, EH Bildu voted in favour of 75% of the amendments tabled by the People's Party to the budget. Now the situation is better: more stability, more growth, more resources. Tax reform has also been cited. We have made the assessment of these three years, we have put it to the two parties that support the Government, and now it is up to us to open a political negotiation and reach the maximum possible consensus. Look, Mr Alonso, the government's position is clear, and I literally read to you what the government's program and the coalition government's position says: "A deal that does not bring to middle and low incomes a decline in their income and favours the competitiveness of Basque companies." This is what our program says. Additional resources have been cited for the quota agreement. Well, then I'll get into that. I was asked, and the question is, what's a EukoMunk doing in front of problems. Now, look, if we talk about economic problems, and if we look at the industry, this country has been an industrial policy, it's even today, and it's going to be in the future. In July we accepted the news of the Industrial Plan Extra, with the consent of economic agents. In any case, there is no industrial policy, no Eucharin anywhere else, which prevents the existence of corporations with difficulty. Together, representatives of Podemus are nowhere. Our network has 580,000 companies and today the economy is growing, investment is growing, exports are growing, and jobs are growing. With this there are companies with difficulty, and we know them directly, and I will mention them more than you have mentioned: CNA Fagor, La Naval, CEL, and General Electric or BSH, the former Ufesa, Sheey, Ingemar, Ofita... We're working with all of them. It is the goal to maintain activity and keep as many jobs as possible. Companies in difficulty. We act realistically to the extent of our possibilities. Look, I'll give you a graphic example of the same week. The Basque Government can and does invest in technological parks: we invest 70 million, offering favourable conditions for companies. Now, Mr Hernández, Mr Martínez, and in relation to La Naval in particular, the Basque Government has received, and you have also been able to see it today in the media, the Basque Government has received a warning from the European Union, recalling the limitations on aid to companies in a competitive position with creditors, as is the case with La Naval. And here we have had experiences of tax holidays, and we have had experiences of tax lease in the shipping sector. Industry in Enkarterri, has also been proposed industry in Enkarterri. Look, the Government is committed to the most disadvantaged regions, which also the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and spokesman in today's session mentioned in terms of the most disadvantaged areas or regions. The stake for the expansion of the technology park in the Left Margen is an example, and I mentioned it this morning. And we will continue to work side by side with all public institutions. Not everything we do through the media, or not everything is reflected in the media. And this very week, Mr Martínez, Mr Hernández, this week there was a meeting with mayors of the area in which the Government has also participated, the Government has also been. We will assess all options: Indartu programme, improvements in infrastructure and equipment, support for viable business initiatives through funding and guarantees, actions aimed at training and training people to meet the industrial or advanced services needs that can be established in the area. The problem of unemployment has been mentioned. More and better, that's our priority, and that's how I showed up in the morning. As far as unemployment is concerned, we have the least part of the state. We're in the headlines for active business policies: We spend 1,860 euros per unemployed, 650 euros in the state. The effort is constant and the tendency is positive. There's less 10,000 people in the profession than last day, 10,000 people. Twenty-two years ago, less than 22 grand. Forty-six thousand less than three years ago. And in Social Security, Mrs. Irart, there are over 170,000 people involved. Anyway, we won't think the crisis is over, as we said, until we've finished all the jobs we've lost. It's been mentioned from a spokesman's hand, the Society Table. Look, we started the table in July. The purpose is to prevent solutions from reducing the workprefeet and reducing the labor stripers. That's the point, and that's what we're doing. ELA and LA and LAB unions have decided not to participate in the Social Dialog at the table. And they don't even take part in the Work Relations Council. Not even in the Economics and Society Council. These are the organizations for our meeting in the autonomical framework. And what we've always said, the doors are open. Adaptation to the social and new commercial interviews is an engagement that all of us are engaged, but especially between corporations and workers. On the 17th of January, Confebask and the four unions agreed to place the contract of the member over the state. That's the best way to improve the collective negotiation. Youth employment, which has also been mentioned. Youth employment is a priority. Our commitment is already reiterated that 20,000 young people have a first job experience, and all the programmes for this are under way: youth entrepreneurship, transition from education to work, local employment programmes, internationalization and global training grants, dual training in both vocational and university training. Thanks to the employment plans, 4,000 young people have already been given the first job experience. Reference has also been made to public employment, interinity in certain departments. Well, we have made a huge, unprecedented effort in the consolidation of staffing, with public offers of employment with 4,375 new places in Health, Education and Safety. Of course, job insecurity has been mentioned. It's a reality. It's a reality. Today's new hirings are temporary. However, three out of four contracts in Euskadi are fixed: 75% of contracts are fixed, and 25% are temporary. The work inspections of the Department of Labour and Justice are reviewing part-time contracts, and the aim is to detect possible fraud and improve working conditions. We have increased the number of inspectors to improve this work. In the field of essential services, whether social protection or education, what I have already answered, cuts in income guarantee income, has been raised again. The Basque Government has not cut back on income guarantee income; on the contrary, and despite the fact that a sible mention has been made to the López Government and then it has wanted to stage or it has also wanted to identify what may be the responsibility of this Government, neither in the previous legislature nor in this legislature has the Basque Government cut back on income guarantee income. On the contrary, every year we have allocated more resources, from the 415 million of 2012 until we can exceed the 500 million of this year for the first time, as Mr Alonso himself has acknowledged. And I remember that this is a subjective right, which forces us to reach the end. Until the end. Therefore, no talking about cuts, when we are talking about a subjective right that forces us to care for all people in need. In Euskadi we allocate 3,200 euros to each beneficiary of income guarantee income (3,200 euros); the average in Spain is 1,500 euros. The proportion of people in households who do not have resources for extraordinary expenses is 22% in Euskadi; in Europe, that Europe which we do not seem so much like, if in Euskadi is 22% the proportion of people in households who do not have resources for extraordinary expenses, Mrs Iriarte, in Europe is 38%. And in Spain 42%. The poverty rate in Euskadi is 12.5%, and our commitment is to place it below 10%; in Spain it is 18%. There are improvement actions, yes, of course there are improvement actions in the management of income guarantee income. Yes, I also mentioned them this morning in the sitting, in my first speech. We have proposed 20 improvement measures to prevent social aid fraud and to ensure that those who really need it receive it. I ask for prudence and responsibility when talking about fraud, because the cases, Mr Alonso, are a minority, and the undue charges are in most cases due, Mr Alonso, to changes in the conditions of the applicants. Control is permanent. From 2012 to this year, 470,000 files have been reviewed. Today, fraud has been reduced to 0.46% of investment, and inappropriate use has been reduced to 0.36%. The aim is, in any case, to encourage the employment of the beneficiaries, in addition to the response to those who really need it the most. The objective must also be, from Lanbide, and also the income guarantee income objective, to encourage the integration of beneficiaries with the capacity to do so. It is a question of preventing situations of marginalization from being chronicled. The future of education has been mentioned, the mention of the state of the university or of the university, and the university's help. Look, our university has one of the largest rates in state as far as the students' funding, one of the highest ratios. We're gonna increase 5% of our college research funding and our goal is not just to improve funding. We're trying to evaluate and improve the science and results as well. And as far as education is concerned, it's an educational priority and I've talked about it. I've already said it's one of the roots of our country. First, I want to give you an objective data about education: It's been a year since the year when the amount of money that I'm talking about has gone to school. There hasn't been any reduction in public funds. It hasn't been. This year, 2,1% has gone up education investment. "EstMork 8.976 converts for each student, 8.976 for each student. It's the highest in the state, like the investment in the country at the end of Europe. Number of students. The ratios in the room are smaller than those agreed on, smaller than those which are agreed on, and the smaller part of the state. The substitutions are being made according to our decision with the unions. And even if it's spoken of interinity, we've been engaged in education for 3,000 new jobs in public offers. With regard to education, therefore, a first observation: we have increased the resources allocated to education every year, there have been no cuts, and the working conditions are good. Secondly, a recognition (we have to make self-criticism, yes, and this morning I have raised it), we have to make self-criticism: we have guaranteed equity, but we must recognize room for improvement in excellence. The Government has launched a process to reach an agreement for education, a process open to participation on five key issues: autonomy, modernization, coexistence, languages, evaluation. The aim is to structure and strengthen the stability and quality of education through its modernisation. Some spokesmen have also mentioned PISA, or that I have made no mention of PISA at this morning's session. Look, we have recognised, and I was the first, together with the Education Adviser, as early as January, the first to recognise insufficient results, and that is why we have launched the global training initiative for all the centres, with these priority areas: skills work, reading plan, competence in language communication, scientific competence, and mathematical competence. The Government will promote the culture of evaluation (yes, evaluation), with the aim of helping to improve the education system. If I have spoken of pretty societies, there has been another sphere of partnership and human rights. And a general principle in co-existence: Don't forget what's still missing and we don't forget and don't underestimate what we've done. Don't underestimate what we've accomplished. We shall not forget what we still lack: The self-critic thought of terrorism and of the past of violence (and I repeat it over and over) will include the watering of human rights, and will not forget and forget. And, on the other hand, a new prison policy, adapted to the present state. Let's not underestimate what we've accomplished. So, what did we get? The end. We've managed to end terrorism and we're on the brink of disappearing forever. Memory. With high-school memory, there's become more and more memory, and less and less a reason for quarrel. Victims. We have gained more and more extensive agreements, even with the associations of the victims, and the difficulty increases the attention of the victims without confession. Partnership. Society lives in a normal state, and it favors normalization. And it's time for us to reflect on the fundamental consensus, the Memories, the Memories, and the Business team. And I cling to Monsieur Eggar's invitation to the Popular Party. With regard to what may be the dispensation of the will to defend the national reality of Euskadi and its right to decide, and also with regard to what I have mentioned with regard to Catalonia, this must not be and must not continue to be so. And I suggest that we focus on the important, and that we recognize that Spain is experiencing the greatest institutional crisis since the transition; that the state model of coffee for all no longer serves, that it needs an in-depth review. To the Head of State and to the President of the Government, as I said before, I transmitted from the first day on the need to open a calm and profound reflection on the plurinational reality of the State and its future. Mr Alonso, as long as the imposed unity decreed in the Constitution of Cádiz of 1812 (and of those dusts these muds) is maintained, it will be difficult to advance in a political solution. I believe that it is urgent to recognize the existence of a political issue that must be resolved with political will in agreement and through dialogue. To maintain this situation is to deepen the social fracture and the questioning of political and institutional capacity, and this is what seems to me to be really serious: the social fracture and the questioning of political and institutional capacity. That is why I have proposed to promote a process of political and institutional dialogue that will enable the majority aspirations of Spanish, Catalan and Basque societies to be reconciled democratically. And this is where I stand on the side of the Basque Road. I defend the Basque way, and I think we all have to be on his side. I have spoken of it: The example we have in Scotland or the United Kingdom, or in European Union itself, and from this legislature. We need to get an internal agreement so that we can get a political pact together. The interview, negotiation, agreement, and confirmation is the model. The Euskal road is to fill the state; it is the euscal road to the auto-beration; it is the euscal road to secure the difference; it is the euscal road to accept the national equality of the state, and to decide a lawful and settled method for the consultation, by combining the principle of democracy and the principle of legality. The Basque way, therefore, is to comply with the Statute, it is to update self-government, it is to guarantee bilaterality, it is to assume the plurinational reality of the State, it is to arbitrate a legal and agreed way of consultation that combines the democratic principle and legality. I believe that I have addressed the areas both in relation to the situation in Catalonia and to the challenges that Euskadi faces in the future, linked also to the budget of next year 2018, economic problems, industry, social policies, social protection, education, PISA, coexistence, human rights, employment, youth employment, job insecurity, public employment. Faced with the interventions of the parliamentary groups, of the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups representing the opposition, both the People's Party and Elkarrekin Podemos and also EH Bildu, look, in relation to the social model, it seems to me key that we from the Basque Government itself say neither neoliberalism nor interventionist populism. No neoliberalism, no interventionist populism. Mr Alonso, in the speech again you have drawn me back to speeches in which I identify that reality needs to be denied in order to defend a position. Denying reality to defend a position. You deny the reality of the existence of a territorial problem and a political problem in the State. He denies the reality of a problem in Catalonia, he denies it! They say not to complete the Statute, and they say not to update the self-government. It denies the reality of a society that is building a coexistence with a critical memory and committed to all victims, also in the field of coexistence and human rights. He denies that in the socio-economic field, Euskadi grows and has more positive indicators in income, health, employment, education, innovation, social protection... It denies reality, and denies reality prevents finding solutions. Euskadi is the community with the greatest knowledge of English in the whole State, Mr Alonso, in relation to what he has said about multilingualism. Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz, you can use the hemeroteca to know that Euskadi is the community with the greatest knowledge of English in the whole State. So bad I don't think we're gonna be doing it. As far as the social model is concerned, I have already expressed myself. The collection to which you have alluded, Mr Alonso, yes, the collection goes well, but be careful, beware of this assertion that the collection goes well and, therefore, is broad Castile. The collection goes well, but the explanations can be largely exogenous. For example, it can be the payment on behalf of large companies under the rules of common territory and for the effect on the adjustment of VAT resulting from the agreement with the Spanish Government. It will be necessary to analyse in the Basque Finance Council next 11 October what is own management VAT and the IRPF, and it must be analysed very carefully. In relation to Elkarrekin Podemos, I will give more concrete answers than I have offered so far. I think you have not heard enough of this morning's speech, I think you have not heard enough. I mentioned public education in this morning's speech, and I recognized the problems. I have cited equality programmes. And, in any case, Mr Martínez, you participate in the Board of Directors of Emakunde, the Basque Women's Institute, and you know everything that is being done at the Basque Women's Institute, which is the Basque Government. Do not come to me here, therefore, with which we forget a field, when you yourselves participate in a board of directors in which you can contrast everything that is being done. I have also talked about aid to victims of gender-based violence, Mr Martínez. I have cited the priority of combating violence against women, and I have also cited the Fourth Equality Plan. That is why I say that I do not think you have heard enough of my speech this morning. I said that this is a shared commitment, and I have assumed that we have a lot of work to do. I assumed it this morning, Mrs. Arana, yes. Do not demagogue, because I want to remind you that Euskadi ranks fifth, fifth in Europe's gender equality index. What do we have to improve? Yeah. That we have challenges to address? Yeah. But the reality is that Euskadi ranks fifth in the gender equality index in Europe. On the other hand, Mr Hernández, look, I am pleased with Elkarrekin Podemos's new interest, as Mr Martínez also pointed out, in the Basque business and industrial system, when they used to call it. I have mentioned companies in difficulty, and I said this morning that I know them; that I know them, and that I also recognize the problems they are experiencing. And I would like this new entrepreneurial sensitivity that you are expressing to extend it to the 58,000 companies that we have in the country, which deserve recognition and respect, in addition to the recognition and respect that the thirty-six companies that may be in difficulty deserve. With regard to industrial policy, I think it is appropriate to say in this plenary that when a company approaches the Basque Government as a public administration, when a company approaches the Basque Government, we as the Basque Government first examine whether it is local, whether it comes with an intention to invest, or whether it comes with an approach to problems and difficulties. If they come with an intention to invest, we'll go to Invest in the Basque Country. The situation is analysed, and whether it has an interest in either short-term implementation or long-term implementation. And if you have an interest in establishing yourself in the short or long term, you are in all cases in contact with outlaws and municipalities. For what? For the search of soil, for the tools and programs that we can put at your disposal, among them also that of the formation... If it turns out that companies approaching the Basque Government come with problems, or come to us with problems and come to plant the need for investment projects, or do not come to plant new problems and investment projects, what we do is see if they need aid programmes. And if aid programmes are needed, an analysis is made and collaboration is envisaged and such aid programmes are prepared. And now, finally, if we talk about the companies that come to raise problems, we have the programs that I mentioned before: Bideratu, Gauzatu, Luzaro. And we analyze the situation to define the needs. And this leads to timely follow-up. There are many more meetings that we have with managers, with entrepreneurs, with shareholders, with works councils, than those that are reflected in the means of communication when we have held a meeting that we both understand is worth advertising. And when we do the punctual follow-up we do the punctual follow-up on the company, on the contacts, on the jobs, on the situation, on the refinancing, on whether it is a new investor or needs a new investor, on the circulation of which it has, on the guarantees, on whether it is in a pre-competitive situation or if it is in a competitive situation, on whether it is going to pose a transfer and, therefore, on the need for relocation of workers, if that means a conversion, if there is a sale of the activity... And we also have participation in the funds, which can be Ekarpen, Lanpar and Luzaro, as I said before. For what? To analyze the postponements as well. All this in order to seek solutions. And this is the work in order of what is an industrial policy and in the relationship with companies. Mrs. Irrie. She's looking at Europe. She's looking at Europe. If you take a look at Europe, and I hope it'll be easier for you to get to the agreement. It's easier for you to focus on Europe, on social protection, in training, in innovation, in future industry, and in subjugates... You mentioned Mr. Junker several times in the morning. And you mentioned what Junker proclaims or plans. Well, I just wanted to remind you that I got your reviews when I joined Mr. Junker. We'll keep looking at Europe and we'll always be willing to negotiate. That's right, and I'm trying to make it clear to the Basque Country, without a red line, we don't make lines on the negotiations. We start a negotiation or a negotiation festival without leaving anyone outside. And I want to tell EH Bilther, at the beginning of this legislation, in the process of conversation, where the representatives of the creation are, and you who are members of the other legislatures, when you made an offer from the Julian Party, you denied it, and why did you deny it? Then, because you had a red line at the time of negotiating pre-17s, because you were watching Podemos and also watching ELA. And I want you to know if you have any personality, ask anybody else if you have any personality. In Euskadi, Mrs Iriarte, we must not return to the times of me or against me. We have the opportunity, for the first time, to work together in the Office of Self-Government. It is good for you to place me on all the questions you have put to me, but, as you have acknowledged, I do answer you as often as you ask me. I'll get back to you. The questions are very well, I am prepared to make the contributions of the reflections, as Mrs Mendia has said, to the Self-Government Paper, and I will respect what the Self-Government Paper says. But it is in that self-government office where you have to, in addition to presenting your initiative... That I don't know if it's Abian's or Zohardia's, I don't know if it's Bagoaz's, or Goazen's, I don't know what it is... I do not know if it is that of gradual bilaterality, I do not know if it is that of bilaterality by parties, I do not know if it is that of the search for a confederal state or a Basque confederal republic, which in each of the legal-administrative areas has to be followed at this time... I do not know if there is a tactical approach to what bilaterality can be to claim with the Spanish State, in order to be able to say later that, if the Spanish Government says no, there is nothing to do with the Spanish Government, and what they really pose is confrontation... And, in any case, I, who this morning I have advocated for representative democracy, representative democracy and built it so far, and the institutional process that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (Euskadi) has been following since 1936, for the first time, and since 1979, I insist that we have the opportunity, for the first time, to work together on the Self-Government Paper. And our shared responsibility will be to find the consensual basis for articulating a new legal-political framework. Policy means improving concretely. So, Mrs. Irorre, as Mr. Egibar did to you, I ask you the same question: What's your specific alternative? Exactly. Exactly. Our proposal is realistic, viable and open. In relation to what has also been that black Euskadi X-ray on the basis of media headlines, or certain media headlines, so, look, let me play the game and I counter negative headlines to headlines that indicate a positive view. No self-congratulation, but not a catastrophic vision. Euskadi is moving forward, and all of you, and you know it, because these months have been able to read, in the same way as I, even if you do not want to quote it in this plenary, have been able to read in the media – and I quote textually – "The Basque economy accelerates in its second quarter and confirms its growth of 2.9 % per year"; "The Basque companies record exports in the first half"; "The Fitch agency improves the international rating of Euskadi"; "Euskadi is the community that invests the most in education"; "The Basque industry in July is in annual growth rates of 2.2 %"; "Euskadi remains a pole of innovation in Europe"; "The Basque public health at the head of the state"; "Euskadi, new record of tourist visits"; "The Basque model of social protection, reference in Europe"... And these are some of the many headlines who also radiograph Euskadi in positive and have a reflection in the media, those who pass most unnoticed, logically, to the parliamentary opposition groups. These are some of the positive news we've been able to read. So, yes, no complacency, but neither catastrophe. And I reiterate that Euskadi is moving forward with realism, stability and consensus. It improves the economic and social situation. We will maintain our social sensitivity, because there are still needs in society, in families and in businesses. We will maintain closeness and support for the real productive economy. I defend institutional stability and agreement. We have signed agreements, starting with the Basque Government itself, between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and a culture of collaboration has spread. And in this regard, Mrs Mendia, Mr Egibar, allow me to thank the support of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, also their contributions today, as regards both the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence and also the Presentation of Self-Government. We are ruling with agreement, we are ruling with an agreement, with a program and with a shared responsibility. We have set up a government in just ten months, and we are ready to fulfil our commitments to Basque society. Beraz, Mendia anderea age Egibar jauna, eskerrik asko auzolanarekin bat egiteagatik. Eta bukatzeko esango dut that, defending institutional stability and agreement, on this basis we must demonstrate capacity to respond to the country's challenges; repeat: education, demographic challenge and youth; innovation and digitisation; internationalization of Euskadi. It is time for a political impetus to move forward in a new legal-political framework for Euskadi that starts from the recognition also of the bankruptcy of the state model. We're going to facilitate the work of the Self-Government Office. I share my thoughts in order to move forward in the five areas of reflection, as I mentioned this morning: we must place Basque self-government in the political sphere of the European Union; we must recognise Euskadi as a nation and consider historical rights as constituent power; update self-government and move towards a new status; establish the relationship of equal to equal, bilateral, with guarantees, and have a precise decision-making capacity in the State, in Europe and in international action. I demand a new attitude of the state, and, I repeat, as I said this morning, the exit of the political-territorial maze is on the horizon of the confederal state since free accession. And I could speak from the Constitution of Cadiz, which I mentioned earlier, to what are historical rights. In any case, I claim politics, another way of doing politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Passing the answer round is Mr. Alonso, the representative of the American Basque Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, the truth is, I confess that I'm going to leave plenary again... In this case it is the full importance that is done each year, where it realizes what has been done, in its case how well we are going, and then it is also proposed to us what will happen in the future and what is the project for the next day. But I don't think it's going to happen to me alone, because I'm leaving without knowing exactly where you want to go. I don't know where you want to go. Your morning speech and your afternoon speech are not even consistent, and I don't know where you want to go! He has told us that he is willing to agree, after listing all the objectives of the common good that we can share: that he will support industries, happiness, innovation... In short, it is impossible to oppose or oppose all of this. Another thing is reality and facts. But after making those statements, which are very good, he tells us that he is indifferent to carry them forward with the People's Party, with EH Bildu or with Podemos, and it is truly unusual. And that, therefore, will initiate a dialogue with everyone, and see what happens. But I say to you, whenever I go up to the rostrum, that it is not the same thing, that we must choose; that we do not represent equal or similar political projects, but the exact opposite, the opposite, and that therefore the Government must clearly lean towards one way or another. And if you want our collaboration, the logical thing is to get closer to the positions we have put before you and look at what points we have in common. That's the logical thing and the normal thing, what happens everywhere. But, man, don't play with us! Don't play with us, because I say this to you in a nice way, but I take it very seriously. Of course, you can't say "Look, so, I thought, the tax reform is going to be agreed in the parliaments with those of Bildu, who have more juntas, and then these of the PP as such, we do...". Well, that doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way. So where are we going? If you say a course I can share, I make efforts. I'm not a nationalist, and it's impossible, I can't be a nationalist. I don't know, it's very simple for you, it doesn't work out for me. I'm not. [[Barres]] I represent another sensitivity and another ideology. I'm not and I'm not going to become this, we're different, but I'm willing to look for what unites us and share goals to make Euskadi stronger. I'm willing. But, man, I'm asking you to, if you're going to talk to us, or after you've rehearsed with the people of Bildu, who already know what you're asking for (let you be a little more brave, let you launch yourself, let it not be so loose, let you go down the Catalan road with enthusiasm and declare the independence of Euskadi this legislature)... I don't ask you for any madness or anything weird, but I do ask you to act clearly. Because, if not, then, you reach the dead ends. Sure, in Catalonia there's a dead end, but who went there? Who threw himself into that nonsense? Who has liquidated their own political party, their entire democratic trajectory...? They've liquidated it! They are going to lose the Government, and the Catalan institutions are going to be left in the hands of groups that are not distinguished by their democratic acquis, from my point of view. Parliament's spectacle was terrible, terrible, through the imposition of a majority that prevents the exercise of minorities, which are then no longer protected by any law, by any jurisdictional guardianship that can be respected. It's terrible! Thank God I hope, and to the wisdom of all, that we do not have to live up to such issues in this Parliament, and that at least what you say about the Basque way..., that is, we will act in an orderly manner, as you say, in accordance with the law and in an agreed manner. And that way in the morning he told us that we are going to be a confederation, in the afternoon he has not insisted too much on that matter. And then he told me that I was anchored in the Constitution of Cadiz. And he is right that it was in fact the Constitution of Cadiz that established that national sovereignty resided in the Spanish people; in the Spaniards of both hemispheres, there resided national sovereignty, and no longer resided in the monarch. And then I mix it with the situation in the United Kingdom and Scotland, which has a completely different situation than here, because there is Parliament's sovereignty there. Parliament has sovereignty, Parliament can decide; not in Spain. So, so that your proposal that we make a confederation of free membership, which almost, in the words of Mr Egibar (it has not come to say), would become (as you have compared it to the European Union...) a kind of Hispanic union of free entry and, I suppose, of which you can each make your own Brexit at the moment you consider, right? This is the project, but in order for that project to be a reality – I do not want to make it absurd – the Constitution would have to be amended: reform process, hard reform of the Constitution. This is approved by a qualified majority, the Courts are dissolved, elections are called again, the new Courts have to be re-approved, and a referendum is called for their approval. The legal and agreed path, it's very easy! But let's see. So, that everything looks great to me! I have not understood very well the debate or the direction we are going to take, nor what is going to happen, but I remain with his statement: "Now we are going to take him back to Self-Government, and we are going to help you." Leave it at the self-government office, which is young, only five years old. I'm in no hurry, I'm in no hurry; if it has to be another three years this thing evolving in the Self-Government Ponence, we leave it there. But let's not get into a mess now! If we now have a fantastic position to give new impetus to Euskadi! Because it's true that he has a chance to grow up. I, because I criticize you, or my colleagues in the opposition, therefore, am neither catastrophic nor negationist (they had never called me a negationist, which I deny reality). Man, I'm not, but my obligation is to point out to you also the things that don't work well and for which you are not responding. I've tried to do it in this matter... I haven't been too tight, but I've tried to do it in those subjects that seemed to me to be most fundamental. Some crucial social issues, the GIR, where they do not recognise that they have more than 7% of undue charges. It's just that that's the reality! Or in education, where you now claim evaluations, and that I like, because that's what we were advocating in education when we promoted the Quality Improvement of Education Act, and against what everyone was talking about. Evaluations, of course, need, of course, assessments, and qualify teachers well, because that is what will improve education. And there we can work together. In support also of the educational reality of the country. In Euskadi, half of the young people study in the concerted network. We have a 50% distribution. The distribution of resources is 70% of the public network, 30% of the concerted network. Families are therefore making a great effort to support the public network, which receives the bulk of funding, and I also ask you to strengthen and take care of that reality in the country. He says that, as we all speak in English here, there is no need for teachers who know English. I told him that we have 13% of teachers, and that he has now called... he has not called English places, but I understand that from his point of view English is learned at home. But there are a lot of people who can't learn English at home because they don't have the money to pay for it. I want to work with you guys, really, and I'd like to be able to make agreements, but, of course, for that, when you're okay and if you take a little while, I'd like to see it one day, and see exactly what you think about... Because maybe in privacy we can talk in Basque [[Barres]] And then you can see exactly what you want. Because here there is an exercise in balance: Mr Egibar has endeavoured to say that Catalans love PNV more than Bildu's; that Bildu's do not want to take pictures with them, and that he is in the background much more nationalist than you. Because that's what...! And then there's a competition there that I can't participate in in any way, of course. How they'll look at me! And, finally, when it comes to the position of the groups for the reform of self-government... "Don't be a chicken, throw yourself into independence," that's what Bildu tells you. Those of Podemos are studying it, but really the proposal of Paul Iglesias is to erect him as constituent power throughout Spain and make his constitution [[Barres]] Which I don't think would make it better for you in self-government, or any of us. The Socialist Party wants to make a status of classic autonomy, classic, where it puts, as in Andalusia or Galicia, that we are a nationality and such (it can be put, right?), but a classic thing, to use, by the normal way, isn't it? And it's okay; I find the approach naive, given the atmosphere that reigns in the House, but it's okay. And I don't think it's worth getting into that truth when things, as you say, "go really well." They're doing great! And if they're going very well, why are we going to ruin it? But look what's going on in Catalonia! Let's take a note. We're going to stick to the wisdom, we're going to turn that thing around a lot, and maybe in our generation we'll see how that works out, or maybe we won't. And I'm gonna say one last thing. Every time I say things go wrong, it tells me I don't understand reality. And when I tell him that one thing is going well, that is the collection, he denies it to me, he tells me that it is not going so well! [[Barres]] Which is the only thing I've said to him that goes well: "The collection goes well, not cold to taxes to the Basques." Well, no, the collection isn't going well. Man, I think it's reasonable that we take some action to support society, which is the one that creates jobs, which is the one that creates businesses, which is the one that creates wealth. I don't know if that's neoliberal, but you said it this morning, and the Health Advisor knows it: that if there is no killing there is no potato; that if there is no growth, economic activity and wealth, there is no money to pay the health bills, which are very expensive and will be more expensive every day, with how old we are doing. I hope that I will ever be clear about its direction, and above all I hope that it will not change substantially what we were able to do last year, because I think that has been good, that people have appreciated it well, that there is a good climate of coexistence and tranquility now in Euskadi, and that things can go better. I, that's the offer I make: let's lean on what's going well, let's try to build a future where things can be just as good, and let's not get into trouble that we don't need. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u22	Well, it's okay, Mr. Alonso, to have a little bit of the Comedy Club too, to relax the mood. Well, in any case, the Socialists have wanted this plenary to be out of certainties and compromises, and that all the issues that are going to require everyone's effort are on the table, and we reiterate our conviction that major reforms should primarily seek to ensure that no one is excluded from them. And that means admitting the other, who thinks differently, and not requiring anyone to fully implement each other's programmes, which is a temptation that still flies over this country's policy. Because that should not be the case, also because the citizens a year ago did not grant anyone the capacity to make decisions in Euskadi without counting the others. No one, none of the parties that we are in this House. That is why in our decisions we will seek to ensure that there are no economic, social or, of course, identity or feelings of belonging. We have found, I think, a paused and measured way of doing so, which also commits itself to respecting the existing legal order even to change it, but, yes, without unilaterally skipping it, as unfortunately has been done in Catalonia. And here there has been an attempt, it is true, to turn this debate into a sort of monograph about Catalonia, which we already anticipated, given how events were going. And it is true that what is happening there is very serious, it is true that the abandonment of the Spanish Government, the inaction, has led to a very rotten situation, but it is also very serious that the Catalan institutions skip their own laws, whether it be the Catalan Parliament itself that blows up the Catalan Statute by air. It is extremely serious that we should seek to nullify the different, and that we should seek to annihilate the basics of democracy, which is dialogue, agreement and respect for standards. And it is very serious that the debate on what Euskadi needs to defend not democracy in Catalonia, as has been wanted to sell here, but to the Catalan independenceists, that is to say, to a part of Catalan society. That was also intended here today. For it seems to us that, seeing what is happening in Catalonia, we confirm that the bet we have made in Euskadi for the agreement between different and respect for the rules is one of the best investments we can make in our coexistence. I know that some, like the lords of Bildu, are more in favour of seeking agreements between equals, which is quite easy, and then segregating the different. That's not our model, nor will it ever be. And here too, we have talked about the right to decide. I am not going to discover anything when I say to you that the Socialists are not in favour of what is to be called the right to decide and that in reality what is meant is the right to secession, because it seems to us that it is not recognized, even if you try to say it sometimes, by international law in any way. However, it is our duty to decide. The duty to decide what we have to do in this country: to decide what we want to do with GIR; what we want to do with health, which guarantees the right to health of all people, adapted to a new demographic reality of ageing. We have the right to decide on education, to guarantee to each and every one of our young people that they will really have a real opportunity to live decently in a world that will touch them to lead them; how we reorient the qualification of our workers to adapt to the technological reality in progress, with guarantee of labor rights; how we get our public broadcasting to feel like something of all (that is a duty, to decide those things), and also how we strengthen self-government so that it will really be useful to citizens, how we build a society on the ground that cannot be renounced, for us – and I hope for most of us – that we all belong here and that no one should ever be killed for thinking differently. We have many duties, many responsibilities ahead of us and many decisions to make to guarantee many rights that affect everyone, as well as to paralyse ourselves only by the right to decide which part of the citizens pose. Well, by mentioning some of the things that have been said here, I want to acknowledge the PP, Mr Alonso, that the tables have been noticed and that they have been able to be politically situated in this House. It is true, I have to admit that with their contributions certain policies that have been designed have been improved, and in many cases they have been voted and agreed with these gentlemen whom the PP demonizes on many occasions, with Podemos and with Bildu. They have had their support, and probably thanks to them, for example, they have been able to consolidate compensation for pharmaceutical replenishment, aid for energy poverty, the right to housing... Finally, these little things that try, among other things, to heal the wounds that the Rajoy government has been causing and which you so strongly opposed at the time. They seem to want to be constructive opposition, and that's fine with us. They are the opposition, but they are not the only opposition of this Parliament. We are a government, and we will seek to open the agreements to everyone, you and the rest of the House's parties. And we also set out, from the pact with the PNV, what is the guide for defining our fiscal policy – the lehendakari explained this morning – and our model of social protection. And we also set out how the law should be enforced and how the Statute should be enforced. That is why I suggest that, in addition to putting a pin in the flap with the Gernika tree, which is very well, the text be read, because I think you should be glad that the Government of all wants to abide by what it has already committed forty years ago. And do not be afraid, please, of the issue of social security and pensions, because what is requested in that report that the Government has made on transfers is a literal copy of what the Statute of Gernika says. There is no rare invention or anything that is not written in that covenant that gave rise to the Statute. A We can just some little reference. Mr Martínez referred to the Socialist Party's refusal to vote on Mr Iglesias' motion of censure. I just want to say that we did not have to have arrived at that motion of censure, if you had made it possible for a socialist president to take office and not to vote against it. Just like the lords of Bildu, by the way, who did, too. If that had happened, and you did not want to do so, there would have been no motion of censure, because Mr Rajoy would no longer have been president. But everyone has their original sin, and you're going to keep paying while I'm in this rostrum, because I'm not going to be forgotten. You then refer to the contributions that you make to the Self-Government Paper, and which I recognise, from the point of view of wanting to give a social dimension to self-government, something that is a literal copy of what the Socialist Party's proposal, presented, like that of the PNV, said twenty months ago in this Parliament. Let's read it for you. I think they've already read it, because some of the expressions are literal copies of what we collected, but welcome are. And welcome is the news that we agree on this subject. But I want to think that this is not just a garment for you to end up buying the speech of some nationalists, and we can reach great agreements in which you too are present. Good. With regard to what Bildu was taking to the rostrum, we have seen one thing that seems very obvious to us: Bildu's firm intention to mark not so much the government but the Basque Nationalist Party. It is like a kind of tension between the two nationalist parties in this House, which is reproduced in full after full. Especially when we talk about these things about the right to decide and the Catalans, it is a kind of competition to see who is more nationalistic than anyone else. But, look, let's make a positive reading of this: we can count, I understand, on the abertzale left to agree on policies that progressives are interested in and that have to reinforce the proposals made by the government in economic and social matters, of course. And we're going to stay with you that you're not going to have any new doubts about whether or not you're getting involved in the real important things, and getting out of your comfort zone and contributing to everyone's benefit. Because we don't want to think about whether this temptation that they already point out, to go every Thursday and every two Friday to the Catalan wild, just thinking probably about the next elections and how they are placed in that space better than the PNV, is going to be the one that they claim to mark this course that we now start. You have already shown your full solidarity with the Catalan independenceists, and we would also have liked them to have shown it to those Catalans who are not independenceists and who, believe me, are also having a bad time right now. Or for example the mayors pointed out by some for not following the instructions of the Catalan Independence Government and thinking otherwise. Even, if I may say so, we would have liked you to have shown your solidarity with the Basque Socialists too when you paint the houses of the people, and even the Txosnas on festive premises, with targets and with gores to ETA, or when calling someone Spanish is still considered an insult in this country. Yes, Mrs. Iriarte, they continue to insult Basques who feel legitimately different from other Basques. It seems that the day of your solidarity has not yet arrived, but believe me that we are still waiting for that to happen. We are waiting, and we are also convinced that this will be the case. Well, although some have intended to make a monograph about Catalonia today, we have wanted to make a monograph about Euskadi. But it is true that we share the concern about what happens to Catalans, and that serves us to ratify ourselves on the path we started a year ago: to bet on dialogue, on the agreement to solve everyday problems, and to face the challenges of the future. In the face of the ageing of Euskadi, to which reference has been made, the digital revolution, immigration or globalization are not worth simple answers or single answers. Those are already Trump's or Brexit's, and that is also the referendum that is now intended to be held in Catalonia. We think we need more work, more reflection, and above all more agreements. We started this course with a solid foundation. We have on our agenda the agenda of the whole Basque citizenship, the nationalist and the non-nationalist as well. And this has been possible because the socialists made a strategic bet, the PNV shared that decision, and together we have brought to the citizens a stability that allows us to face the reforms that allow us to solve things today and lay the foundations for the future. And I end up showing again our extended hand to all the political groups in this House, without exception, to reach agreements in all matters, without vetoes or exclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u24	Well, I'll tell you what I'm yelling at. Well, there's very little argument for the Jelt Party of Eube, if Mr Joseba Egibar introduces populism and Papa Francisco in the same sentence, he's making these phrases. And also you must not say the name of President Aguirre so often, that I do not know how many documentarys he had with our public money about President Aguirre; There's a problem with the Jelt Party in the end. he is angry when he is told of the truths, and then he says things that he repulses in the replication. Today, Mr. Egibar, that's what happened to you. Your alternative, as you have rightly said, will never be to democratise the State or to reform it in terms of plurinationality, because you would lose your role. Their deputies would not have that key in Madrid that they so presume to have. You need bipartisanship, you need the Socialist Party and the People's Party. You, curiously, are nothing without those centralist parties that are so critical. It was seen in Sánchez's investiture and it was seen in Rajoy's motion of censure. In July they gathered their votes to the People's Party, Citizens, the Canary Coalition, the Asturias Forum and UPN to approve the state spending ceiling in 2018. The best of every house, speaking of futurables, as you have said before. But, well, in any case, thank you for dedicating the pre-replication, that I thought the reply to the opposition was made by the lehendakari. But we accept that your four minutes will be deducted from the time of the lehendakari, which I realize has no limited time. I would also swear that the lehendakari this morning came to us with the question of Europe, with the question of the European model, and I say this because I would have bet that the PNV would compare our social protection system with Europe and not the rest of the state. I suggest that we compare what we invest in health or education, in relation to GDP in Euskadi, and what the average in Europe or what is recommended in the OECD. I know that they do not want to compare with Europe rather than the state, or to compare the measures they take with Europe, but with the measures they take with the state, because they already know that we do not get off well. I know this is going down, but this is a reality. You weren't the ones who devised the income guarantee in this country. They weren't. They didn't, no matter how much they want to give it to them, they don't miss the truth. It was citizenship. It was citizenship that promoted a popular legislative initiative calling for basic income. And it was that initiative that was approved and that created the basis of this revenue guarantee system that has been developed for thirty years and that is actually now being cut, because it has taken off the equivalence with the CPI and because at the moment we are faced with that 7 % cut that continues to exist and that has not been reversed, despite the fact that it was cut with the excuse of the crisis. But let's get into more questions. Mr Urkullu has referred to the question of equality. What we have proposed is that you, speaking for an hour and a half, have devoted thirty-five seconds to this issue. And we are indeed on the Emakunde Council and we know what is being done and we know what is not being done, but do you know what percentage of the budget of the Basque Government is dedicated to Emakunde? 0,05 %: 5,012,500. True, 5,012,500, that is the percentage devoted to Emakunde, 0.05% of the budget. And then let's move on to industrial policy. You talk about increasing the weight of industry to 25% of GDP, when before the crisis it was 29%. What kind of industrial plans do they present, which do not contemplate recovering what was lost by the crisis? And on top of that why do you pose that you speak...? With what economic agents do they talk about such industrial plans, when all trade unions without exception (ELA, LAB, Workers' Commissions, UGT and ESK) criticize their industrial policy? Something's going to be wrong, isn't it? You have also spoken about the digital transformation of companies. Okay, but Industry 4.0 isn't just that. As important as technological renewal, it is, without a doubt, the renewal of industrial relations in the company. A change in management structures is needed to incorporate all talent and knowledge. The company of the future also demands a change in the attitude of the Basque entrepreneurship. Put yourself to it for real, invest something in content, and less in marketing. And with regard to La Naval, which again we find with little response, we actually think it was a disaster. We see no concrete measures. But don't worry, because we do have measures, we do have alternatives and we do propose solutions. That, far from making empty statements, as the Government has done, and in the antipodes of the abandonment of the Socialist Party of the Left Margin and of the Naval, we have presented very concrete measures, three to be exact, which serve for the Naval but which can also serve for other cases. The first, a rescue plan for the auxiliary industry. There are forty-fifty Left Margin SMEs that employ 500 people. Soft loans so that they do not go into suspension of payments, and above all advice and accompaniment to reduce their dependence on La Naval. The second, which is to prevent, through the municipality of Sestao itself, any real estate speculation operation on the land occupied by the shipyard. To bet on the maintenance of industrial activity and quality employment. And the third, a concerted action between the Basque Government and the central Government in the share capital of La Naval, ensuring public control of the investment; making a real viability plan; ensuring the payment of salaries to the contracted (215 persons) and subcontracted personnel (which are other 1,840); handing over the compromised ships, and of course demanding responsibilities to the current owners for their mismanagement. And you know why there's no problem in investing public money in La Naval? Because I know that you have referred earlier to those money-back problems that you may have, or to the warning that you have come from Europe. Because France has already done it in the shipyards of Saint Nazaire this August, and because Italy does it with its shipyards. But there is also the possibility of granting aid to promote the economic development of regions where the standard of living is abnormally low, or where there is a serious situation of underemployment, such as the Left Margin. But there's also another question, which is that in Europe they don't look... They measure whether public aid is being provided or whether public aid is not being provided. If the money publicly invested enters the company under the same risk conditions as that of private capital, nothing happens. And this was said by Almunia himself in 2011, when he intended to do this with La Naval. I do not want to let go, Mr Lehendakari, of the question of taxation, which we have not discussed before, and now it would be up to us. You have spoken, Mr Urkullu, about the need for an agreement between the parties for fiscal reform; however, perhaps you should start by making Mr Rementeria's point of view, and making it clear once and for all that, as Mr Azpiazu said, there is room to raise more and there is a need to raise more. So, we'd like to know what model you're left with, whether with the Rementeria approach or with Urkullu's; whether there's room to raise corporate tax to large profit companies or whether there isn't. This is not only in the field of industry and employment; it is also extendable to other government policies. And now we're going to self-government. I do want to start with a car that has been mentioned to me by a colleague, which is that I am convinced that the Socialist Party does not sign everything that the Lehendakari said today, and that the Lehendakari does not sign the literality of everything that Mr Egibar said today. But, well, like everyone else, we can agree. You're also in advance of a headline. There are things in which our status proposals are close (we are also going to talk about proposing a federal, asymmetric, confederal solution..., talking about free membership, and we are going to talk about the Canadian model that we have so much defended and that has so much defended this coalition since the last elections), but, although we agree on that, it is also true that there are other things in which we are far, far away. For us, that status is not the most important thing. The key is to make self-government a tool at the service of the social. Our proposal goes through the shielding of social rights with concrete commitments; it goes through changing the institutional architecture of Euskadi, in particular the Historical Territories Act. Our proposal is to have more transparent, close and participatory institutions; it is to advance the right to decide and to put effective instruments on the table, in the Basque Country and in the State. This summer we had an article-cross with the Socialist Party in relation to self-government. I say to him, Mr. Pastor, what Mr. Andueza replied to his partner: "Tell me what you presume, and I will tell you what you lack". They have been an example of everything, less respect for the plurinationality of the State, respect for its plurilingualism, good treatment of the current autonomous state, or how to address the demands of a large part of Catalan society. His words lose credibility. I hope that you will defend the social dimension of self-government, that you will defend the Statute and that you will not support LOAPA, that you will defend dialogue as you have done here today. But today we have found that his comrades of the Socialist Party of Aragon, with Mr Lambán at the head, are maneuvering to prevent us from making a meeting in Zaragoza between public offices to see the situation in Catalonia. That is his example of dialogue, that is his form of dialogue. And we didn't actually vote for Pedro Sánchez the first time because we didn't want a government that was tied up by Citizens, the most centralist party in this country. Mr Urkullu, are you aware that, while you were holding the hand of the Rajoy government, the Rajoy government was holding the neck of the Catalan institutions with the other hand? We do not agree with how the process is taking place in Catalonia, we do not share unilateral paths, they are not our option, but that cannot be an obstacle to being against any limitation of fundamental rights such as assembly, freedom of the press or freedom of expression. The train crash never brings anything good, it is not a good way forward, but it must be clear that the problem is not the citizenship of the rest of the State, and the problem is not the rest of the peoples, communities and nations of the State. The problem is the People's Party and the PSOE's complicit silence. And a postdate. Indeed, Mr Urkullu, our groups are the most opposed in the socio-economic model. A few months ago it was published that the Nationalist Party and Elkarrekin We are the groups that we least agree in the sense of voting in Parliament on socio-economic matters, and that we basically do so close on issues of peace and coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u25	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Protect the EH team, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u26	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Urkullu, you've told me a lot of things and my turn is short. You didn't like the diagnosis I made in economic areas. But this is not a question of taste, that is, that you have given some facts and I have not denied those facts, and that there are other facts which make up that photograph. And you have agreed that you have to improve, that you still have to accept that you still have to step. And all I've ever said is, what we're going to do is give us the steps and the facts that make me care. I find the facts in the Eustats, Eurostats, and INE, which I bring here. It would be another thing, perhaps, as Mr. Eggar has said, that we ought to establish rules of what we take, because we sometimes take some, because we take some, some of the 28th European, some of the Euronets, or whatever. Those are the facts I use. And I want to tell you something else, and this is a data of the Deustobameter: The three-quarters of the American Autonomical rent, they believe, do not yet leave the crisis, do not see that its condition of life has improved. So there's a perception that comes to that photograph also with other data I've added to. I don't want this town to get worse and worse. For this people, I assure you, I want the best, the best for this country. I don't think it'll be worse and worse for you or your government. On the contrary, Mr. Urkullu, I want you to do the best for this country, and the best, I think, we must complete that photograph too, and give it whole. You have told me that education is one of your care, and that education has not gone back. Well, we'd need 167 million dollars to compare the educational version of 2009 in 2017. So he hasn't moved on, we still need to move on. I'm not telling you this to destroy you, because this town has to go on, and you always make me a face like that. You laugh more at Mr. Alonso, Mr. Urkullu, you never smile at me. I asked you a question, Mr. Urkullu: Are you proclaiming a state when you proclaim a free state? I asked you that and you didn't answer me. For if this be so, thou proclaimest a State, and thou proclaimest a State, and thou proclaimest a State, and ye seem to proclaim a State. Not you guys. But, well, there's a lot of people here who claim a state. I claim an independent state... Well, I'll have freedom, Mr. Egibar, to claim what I want. How? The president asked me if you don't know what our proposal is. Well, I'll tell you why you don't know our proposal, Mr. Urkullu. And one thing I want to make clear to you before I say anything else: I don't lie, I don't lie. And in our meetings to complete the government (not in negotiations) and in our meetings to agree with the budget (not in negotiations), there was no opportunity to put any patterns on the table, there was no possibility. You had a pretty clear idea who you wanted to do the government with: With the Social Party. Yes, sir, Mr. Urkullu, because it was very easy, because it was very comfortable. It's a thing I can do without, but clearly, we didn't put any models on the table, there was no negotiation. And it's not a lie. I repeat to you, Mr. Urkullu, and I say to you: I don't lie, I don't lie, Mr. Urkullu, really. And when we negotiated the budget, it happened the same thing, you brought us a page and that's the only page that was for the negotiation. And the ones we put on the table weren't even taken into account. Yes, sir, Mr. Urkullu, and you weren't in those meetings. And then I don't... Yeah, yeah, you weren't there, so don't come out... Mr. Iturate, he didn't. And we didn't negotiate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u28	And I'll tell you one thing, if you go out into the hemerka, I'll tell you when Mr. Rajoy declared that he would protect them and that these budgets were already approved, and we still didn't have a few to talk to you. I don't lie to you, I'm serious. And maybe if we had the chance to put our patterns on the table you knew exactly what it would be. In any case, I'll put it right in power, and you've got a chance of coming all the time and all you want, or I'll come here whenever you like. And also know that, along with the social majority, along with the majority of this people, along with the majority of this people, together with the EH Collector, if you want to make the progress of developing this town, the Basque Country will always be ready to assemble. Keep it clear. You have said again about Catalan that dialogue, legality, is a political dialogue. Mr. Alonso has answered what you propose to him and to the Esquimic Esquimia in Esquillia, and what you propose for Catalonia. I don't think we're going to go to Catalonia in nothing, not in the least. The road to Euscal is, of course, the road to euscal, which we shall have to build here. All I say is, that the Common-wealth before us is not Scotland; that the Common-wealth before us is not Canada, or Canada, or the Common-wealth of Spain, which has imprisoned several and several offices of Catalonia, which has been exploited by the High Exhibition, by which the media is severely alerted. That's what we're dealing with. We have a state, which shows an extreme want of democracy, and it is also shown by history, and it is difficult for me to perceive that we have a state which shows difficulty in democraticizing. That's what I'm saying. And therefore there are other ways of showing Catalonia, and showing himself with great dignity that there are other ways. By the way, Mr. Pastor, I'm never glad they're threatening anyone, not Catalonia, not here or anywhere else in the world. I swear it is so. Never. And from its beginning, the Basque People has always said that our paths are merely political and democratic. I don't paint and I charge them. I'm telling you to find out. The joker in the coffin, from another point of view... It's not a catalan, it's not: It's Catalan. It is today that they speak of democracy, or that they are opposed to democracy. And that's what I said to you. That's what I asked you. That's another question I asked you. Are you talking about democracy? Are you against democracy? And I'm asking you, because I have no doubt about it, but, yes, because you have to break your relationships to the Party Popular. Don't tell me it's a relationship and a point-pointal relationship because this is giving oxygen to the Popular Party. And without oxygen, I told you, Mr. Urkullu, there is no fire. There's no fire. Mr. Egibar, it's your popular sport, when you see the water overflowing, when it reaches your nose, to shake up the Basque Country, or, as you say, to shake the patriotic left. Yes, sir! And, look, I didn't like one thing. We won't agree or agree in some things, but I don't like to extract prisoners and transfer transfers from the peace process we're still constructing, because we're building a process of this kind that you know as well as I do, that we must be very careful not to face all the elements in it. There's so much left on my tongue that I put in my stomach, because my belly sometimes asks for things, but I don't let them get out of my mouth. I've studied this subject before, though not in this Parliament, and I think it's important. And then the agreement with the Party Popular, Mr. Egibar, is an agreement that gives oxygen to the Popular Party. And there's no way for a bell and a procession, Mr. Urkullu. He can't ride the bell and procession. And you can't say, "Today nothing happens and democracy's not in danger." And you can't claim independence and independence. Independence! "Say it on Party Day or New Year's or on election nights. Do you have any independence or not? What are we left for? That's what we need to figure out. No, don't make such a grimace, Mr. Egibar. Nomination. Let me tell you something. Three weeks ago, you said that if Catalunia won in the referendum, you were agreed to make the first claim to honor this republic. I'd like to sit next to your badge, too, if you haven't gone back. And meanwhile I tell you that we have all the week following, before October 1st, to show you our position in this Parliament for this referreendum, for instance, as Mr. Salmond has shown today. Ladies and gentlemen, we're a country and we won't give up. And we'll say that because we're not going to give up, we'll say, "Noosaltres també votarem." We don't know when, but we'll make it. We'll vote too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u30	Can't you shake the accounting man's paper somewhere? I don't know. I also want to say it respectfully: Don't worry about the Jest Party. Tell me what you're going to do, what you're gonna do, how he's noticed your push in Catalonia... Sell all that. But if we are to be traveling in the future, do you think that's the way to treat PNV? No, no, yours... Hey, what'd I say to you, insultingly? What did I tell you? What did I say? If you're going to break with PP (and we don't have a relationship, we have a deal), don't come here every week asking for other things. That's what I said. A minimum coherence! And I keep a lot of things! Mr. Lander, the deputies of the PNV in Madrid are decisive... The day will come when there will be no presence of the Basque Nationalist Party in Congress and in the Senate, not for lack of popular representation, but because there will be a parliament of the Basque nation, and we will be in the European elections. The day will come, we'll see what happens to other political formations. And you've had it again..., I'm going to say the defachability, because you're insistential too, contemplating, don't you?, come to persist in the error, come to pose again the debate that has arisen in this House with regard to the general budgets of the State. Then, that was a shared act, but of political cowardice. In politics we have to deal with the issues, and you, if you had the courage to do so, should have brought the contents of the agreement and put them to the vote here. The contents, not the General Budgets of the State. Bring the agreement signed by the Basque Nationalist Party, and we vote for the contents! If at some of the ends and contents of that agreement you are going to vote in favour of the Congress of Deputies! Or are you going to vote against the liquidations and update of the concert? Say it, let the Basques know. That was an act of political cowardice. [[Berber]] Well, admit the term politics, lovingly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u31	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u32	Hirugarrena. On the issue of self-government, it's clear, because you have a friend who has told you that Idoia Mendia would not take over Iñigo, but that Iñigo, such, such, such... Solution: I want to talk to your friend. [[Barres]] I want to talk to your friend, see if we can clear up. Mr. Alfonso Alonso, you were talking about nationalist, not nationalist... and I'm fine with the Catalan Statute. Because you say, "I'm not a nationalist." I believe that a Spanish nationalist, for example Herrero de Minón, who defines himself as a furious nationalist, Spanish, understands the Basque nationalist, understands the nationalist, because he is a good Spanish nationalist. The problem of those who say they are not nationalists is that, in the background (and you can see, you have spoken of the two hemispheres of the Constitution of Cadiz), in the background they are imperialists. (Barreak) That's the problem, that's the problem. For everyone has a nation, and if he defends his nation he must also defend the neighboring nation or other nations. In the background beats the imperialist touch. Why? In Catalonia there was also a previous statute before the Republic, which already said ours, and some Catalans also, that there is nothing more like a right-wing Spanish than a left-wing Spanish, isn't there? For, newly constituted the Republic, there was a draft statute, endorsed by Catalan citizenship, which was the Statute of Nuria, with a number of contents, and also had its corresponding brushing (then it was called "adequate"). But there is an interesting debate between Manuel Azaña and Ortega and Gasset, and Manuel Azaña says that it has failed in the attempt to assimilate Catalonia, and Ortega and Gasset still has a message of another wavelength, and comes to say that the Catalan problem cannot be solved, cannot be solved, because it comes from before the existence of the peninsular unit and will persist as long as Spain remains. And, without claiming that Spain commits suicide, what I do believe is that there can be or can be coexisting, coexisting, different nations, and that's what Ortega and Gasset say. That's the end of the date. [[Berber]] Yeah, what he says...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u33	Please, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u34	... What it says is that it is a perpetual problem that must be carried. The key word is "take." Hence the theory of behavior, that is, not solving problems, to see if they rot. I think Catalonia is putting its finger in the sore, in the democratic sore. It scares democratic accounting, it seems, to the People's Party! So what Catalans decide must have a value, from a democratic position, a value relevant to a state that has not made either an offer or a political offer for seven years, not even – how would I say? – to stimulate or test a political offer. None for seven years! With that theory that, well, problems exist, but they rot and another time will come. Well, no. The problem has become a conflict, and the political-institutional conflict already has a democratic overflow, which if they fail to see is that..., I am not going to say that they are worthy or not to be in politics, but at least to see at least what is happening in Catalonia. That there is a democratic overflow, and that must be followed! We need to talk, we need to talk. That cohabitation cannot be imposed! We've got to make a deal! Then, if one closes everything, closes the door to dialogue, closes... as Catalonia will, in fact, contribute to the democratization of the State. Because I am convinced that it will open an impressive blow in that wall of intransigence and authoritarianism of the People's Party. They're gonna open it, we're gonna see it. It'll be one, two... but it'll come. Things are going to be very different, very different, and of course positive for Catalonia, and for us too, for those of us who think that since the democratic deepening, agreements can be reached and that we can have political coexistence schemes. And the last one. It's my own state. Yeah. It's just how? How? And I applaud this boldness, but I often think, if you look at it, you are in independent form in a group, and now, until seven years, some of them thought that independence could be obtained in another way (I will not mention it), and the consequences of that strategy are still (there is no need to tell us what strategy it is, and what consequences are). Then only if we have to use political and democratic ways, that's a good novice, and EH Collect has made the part of it. It must be admitted that this has been obtained from politics. But don't give lessons to the others and take care of them. For what we have done is to say on what grounds we are going to establish this new political state. And the proper state is, in fact, a matter of how, and among us all (at least, most of us are able to unite). And I'm done with this. We finally had this debate, and I think we've got two years ahead of us (three, cheers), but politically, the Autogotun Committee... I wouldn't be in such a hurry, I'd rather do it right, but I mean to do it right, and I want everyone to explain their positions and see if the agreements are possible. But to define the country project, I think we should put ground on it, and I think that we should encourage party processes. Why? Because there's a lot of young people who say, "I didn't vote for the State," "when the Confederation was voted, I wasn't born." And why, not from this parliament, set up these principles and principles, and especially with regard to the young, to direct the proceedings, let him come to this legislature, and at least be a part of the trial. And I think that would be extremely important, and only good would give the trial the same. Therefore, looking at the youth of euphora (I am already past age, I am grandfather), but I think there are certain concepts, such as the people'snority, identity, euscality, as the Gridian Gudiga calls, that resists us. We can learn to be young, French, English, German, but only the euphoria of the eucharist, the population, the economy (for we have areas), social justice, solidity and solidarity; equality as a value; decision, which is shown by cataults, that resolution, and continuity. I think, from these values, our parlamentary group, our party, is clearly convinced that we must advance. We have to move forward. First, listen, share (hear, share), commit, encourage, and go on day. We're ready. Anyone who wants to work with us, let him tell us. We're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-09-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
