ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Motion, Eukene Arana Varas, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the Administration of Justice, and the Machiistic violence. Discipline and final resolution. It's the proposer's turn, it's Mrs. Arana's turn. He'll do it from there, because he can't come here... and your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u1	Bai, eskerrik asko. And excuse me for making my speech from here, but there is no other way to do it. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We said last June 19th, we reiterated it last week and today we insist again, because in Elkarrekin We want the equality of women and men and the gender-based violence to be placed in their place of priority on the political and parliamentary agenda, and we will continue to work to do so. Inequality and violence are directly related: investing in equality policies is investing in the eradication of sexist violence, and investing in the eradication of sexist violence is investing in equality. Inequality is the breeding ground for violence, and it, in turn, supports inequality and discrimination. For when they touch one they touch all of us; each aggression operates as an alert for all, it is a clear message: "Woman, if you get out of the commands you can be assaulted." Having clarified this – and wanted to do so because last week I felt that it was not understood why it is important to abolish inequality in order to abolish sexist violence – we said in the question that gives rise to this motion that we have been aware of the situation of the Administration of Justice in relation to sexist violence. Complaints are on the rise. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, in Euskadi in the first quarter of the year there was an 8.1% increase in complaints of male-to-female violence by the couple or ex-partner. In data published this week, the judiciary claims that they are still on the rise. During the same period of the previous year, for every 10,000 women, 11.4 reported being victims of partner or ex-partner violence, while at present it is 11.58 per cent. These serious, very serious data are only a small part of the phenomenon of sexist violence, since the judiciary considers only gender-based violence that is exercised by a partner or ex-partner, and remain outside this statistic, as we all know, invisible, all the other violence that we women suffer every day. According to the Ertzaintza data, complaints of crimes against sexual freedom have increased by 43.14 per cent. In addition to the increase in complaints, according to the Office of the Prosecutor, with the entry into force of Organic Law 1/2015 and Organic Law 7/2015, there has been an increase in prior proceedings and abbreviated procedures. The workload to be absorbed by the Justice Administration is increasing, and the workload exceeds the available resources. There is a general agreement between social agents and defenders, and also expressed by judicial agents, that the courts, the means and the specialization are insufficient to give adequate response to the victims, an insufficiency that is aggravated by this progressive increase in the number of complaints. Mugarik Gabe, also in his appearance at the Commission on Labour and Justice for the Feminicide report in Euskadi and Navarra 2010-2015, told us about these shortcomings, which they considered to be very serious. And yet we have not seen any clear gesture by the Basque Government that would make us believe that more efforts will be made through more resources and new measures. This overload generates work dynamics that have as their main consequence that situations cannot be attended to with due dedication and time. This increases the risk of revictimization and of inadequate procedures. The overload also has consequences for the building conditions and infrastructure allocated: there is saturation, and the spaces are scarce and overused, leading to inappropriate situations, according to international standards and recommendations, such as having to share the waiting area between the victim and the reported victim, or between the victim and the victim's family, or crossing the corridors, accesses and places of passage. In addition, in the many cases in which women have to come accompanied by girls and boys, the spaces end up being totally inadequate for waiting or to preserve children from tense moments and from listening to testimonies that have a marked violent content and a great emotional burden. The Ararteko report 2016 already noted as worrying the attention that children who appear in our courts, whether as victims or witnesses, receive in our courts. And, if that were not enough, the need to improve specialization has been identified in order to address the procedures of macho violence, both in specialized courts and throughout the administration of justice. I said the other day, and I repeat it today: justice, when it is blind to gender, is not justice. Stereotypes and prejudices pass through all spheres of society, including justice, and are an obstacle to women's access to it. The application of prejudice affects the credibility of women's statements, arguments and testimonies, both as parties and as witnesses to the proceedings. This situation of the Administration of Justice should be of concern and concern to all of us, and, of course, especially to the Department of Labour and Justice. Measures must be put in place to ensure the right of access to justice for women and girls and boys and adolescents who were victims of sexist violence, and it was currently not being done well. With this initiative Elkarrekin We want to promote measures to help ensure that access to justice for victims of machist violence is real, effective, with guarantees of non-repetition, and without risk of revictimization. We have reached an agreement, and we celebrate it. We consider this to be a minimal, urgent and necessary gesture. Through this agreement, we urge the Basque Government to implement effectively and effectively the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as well as the gender perspective, in the policies of the Deputy Justice Adviser of the Department of Labour and Justice. Also to carry out, as provided for in Law 4/2005 of 18 February, for the Equality of Women and Men, in its article 51.2, periodically the evaluation of the effectiveness and scope of existing resources and programmes in the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of violence against women, with their own means or in collaboration with other entities. To develop a plan for the implementation of the recommendations arising from the evaluations carried out. And to have in these processes the participation of social agents, experts and social organizations with recognized experience in the work with machista violence and in the administration of justice, as well as the professional colleges of lawyers and prosecutors. We repeat, we have reached an agreement and we really celebrate it. However, we want to make some notes at the foot of this agreement that we have reached on the reports. Article 51.2 of Act 4/2005 of 18 February 2005 on the Equality of Women and Men stipulates that the evaluation of the effectiveness and scope of existing resources and programmes in the Basque Autonomous Community on violence against women shall be carried out on a regular basis. In order to fulfil this mandate, a first report was prepared in 2007, and we know that 10 years later we have finally had to update this evaluation. However, it has not been made public, which we do not understand, and we do not know the reason and it seems to us to be an absolute lack of transparency. We would like to know when that report will be made public, because we are aware that it exists. On the plan to implement the recommendations, we will be vigilant in ensuring that this plan is actually presented to address this problem. In order to reach this agreement, which we consider to be so important, we have had to give up setting a deadline for the submission of the plan. We do not understand the refusal to set these deadlines, when the Councillor for Labour and Justice herself on 3 March responded in writing to a question in which she stated that measures were being taken to improve the care of "women victims of violence against women". And we understand that if measures are taken, they will have time to implement them. In our questioning of 10 June, rather dubious and diffuse, he also mentioned some measures. Why the refusal to set deadlines, if there is already a plan? It is as simple as referring what has been thought and what measures are being taken. Do we have any doubts: Is there really a plan? Is there really a policy to improve the Justice Administration's response to sexist violence? Are they specific and isolated measures? We would like to know what measures and what plan is in place to be able to address all of this, and yet we will continue to monitor that work plan to the full. And we will also work and insist that the plan has a budgetary allocation, because if it is not supported by a budget allocation, then no plan can be carried out. And, speaking of plans, they understand that we follow up and monitor the Department of Labour and Justice thoroughly, as we have made a request to all departments for information with the aim of knowing each other's equality plans, and the Department of Labour and Justice has responded in a couple of sheets to explain that for this reason, for that, for the other, and for the beyond, a year to assume, today they are without an equality plan. We don't think it's a receipt. And finally, and as I imagine we will be able to get this issue out, on the state pact of gender-based violence, we have included it at the request of the PP, but we must say that it is a lame pact. And I'm going to say four points for which we think it's lame. It is lame because the measures do not have economic, temporary or legislative guarantees to be implemented. The subcommission agreed to request a minimum financial commitment of $1 billion to be allocated among all State administrations to five financial years, but at the moment there is nothing on the part of the Government, not even the commitment to the specificity or purpose of the budget lines. That's why we abstained. There are no policies of equality that guarantee prevention to change the macho society in which we live. If we do not guarantee prevention, we will hardly address this issue from the root, which is where it needs to be addressed. Women and feminist groups are not allowed to participate, as they do in other bodies such as the UN or the Council of Europe. Without the main thrusts of this defence and of this claim, I believe that we can hardly reach agreements that are completely realistic. Nor is there a feminist approach that goes beyond the conceptual and legislative framework of the Organic Law 1/2004 on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. We need a framework of machist violence that does not generate victims of first and second. We want a useful pact, a feminist pact. And this isn't. I repeat, thank you all very much for the effort to reach this agreement. We will continue to work, and from Elkarrekin We can put the magnifying glass in the courts and we will follow very closely what is done and what is stopped. And if we see that there is no clear answer, we will bring this debate back to this House. We'll keep working and we'll keep insisting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u3	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Arana, indeed, with the existence of a single victim of any kind of violence for these crimes would be sufficient to activate all the mechanisms that have been under way for years to change the system and for the whole of society to set its objectives so that macho violence disappears from our press, from our judicial activity and from our daily life in society. But the problem is that, in fact, there is not only that victim, but there are many more, and that the problem we are carrying is a big problem and a problem that affects us all. And it affects not only the Department of Justice, but all departments of the Basque Government and all State institutions. And that is precisely why I am in favour, and that is why my group approved in July the state pact against gender-based violence. I think it is very important, in this context, that all political groups have been able to make their contributions and have been able to move forward, because I understand that it will be a fundamental tool for eradicating this problem that society has. We share all of this. What I do not share is his extremely critical view of the current situation in the Department of Justice. I do not share it at all, because, although everything is improveable in this life and indeed there are failures, there are shortcomings, there are inefficiencies and there are things that can be improved, the visit to the places where these performances take place, interviewing the professionals who work there, would give you a completely different view of what you have wanted to move us here today. That, on the other hand, seems to me to be a lack of respect for both the existing reality and all the hundreds of professions in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country working on this very important challenge, from judges, lawyers, prosecutors, all the judicial officials, police officers, social workers, psychologists, members of the psychosocial teams of the courts and courts, and many other administrations working in parallel with the Administration of Justice to eradicate these violence. They are people who have been working with great effort for a long time, with sufficient but perfectly expandable means, and achieving great goals. The problem may not be eradicated, but the victims do feel accompanied. That is why I say to you that we must set in motion initiatives of this kind, which are so alarming, that we must start, that we must start, that it does not seem to me to be appropriate to the reality, because this work has been done for many years. In the same way that we cannot say that the State Pact against Gender Violence has been launched in a few months and has been adopted from December to July without any previous support. Because it was actually building on the work and evaluation of all the plans that have been put in place for many years by different governments of different administrations, both the Government of the State and the governments of the autonomous communities and local governments. The evolution of all these plans allows this pact of State to come forward, which you say has no concrete measures and I say yes to you. Read it, please. He proposed amending specific articles of the 2004 Act. It proposes to amend specific articles, precisely in what paragraph of the Criminal Procedure Act, of the current Criminal Code. Yes, it does have budget items amounting to EUR 1 billion for the next four years. And it has the commitment of many administrations and all political groups – less its own – to get started. Mrs Arana, you come up to the rostrum (or from the seat in this case), you put us in a very alarming situation, and you propose great measures. And it is true that when we come to an agreement in those agreements, then we all have to lose some of our interests in order to agree on a common idea, but that voracious criticism that you make of the current situation is contradictory to the agreement that we have reached. Absolutely contradictory. If things are very bad because nothing has been done, and you read the agreement that you have proposed and that we have all signed, you tell us about continuing to implement (then it applies), continuing to implement (then it is done), continuing to count (then it is counted), and putting into effect the conclusions of the evaluation plans (which have already been made), conclusions that are in progress and that the plans themselves order that they should be implemented. Therefore, Mrs Arana, nothing new has contributed to us, as nothing new has you wanted to contribute to the plan that was adopted in July in Madrid, to the state plan, to the state agreement of all political groups but your own. Perhaps because what they want is an initiative that makes a lot of noise, but they really don't have great ideas to contribute to this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u5	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. I'll start with a contingencies: The debate we've brought here today about a proposal has a very direct connection with my work and the work I've often done. Then I'm quite clear, and maybe my reading will be much worse because I see it directly, when women go to such places, young and other people go to it, and what answers they get when they get into that situation. And it's true, it's often very difficult, it's very bad, it's very bad to take a step, go to court and tell you about what's happened in your house in the street, work, or other places. But it's a lot harder to tell where it's very inappropriate, in front of people and other people who don't have the right connection with you when they're near. And that's what I'm saying. I'm saying that it's true to emphasize the truth of what's going on with what I don't agree with what he's been talking about... and I will give some facts to explain the panoma, and what I say to understand correctly, I will explain the facts. In many places there is a court-martial and only one. And when there's one and only court, it's mixed. What does that mean? That his work is not only focused on the subject of the genus's violence, no. With that he has criminal trials, civil judgments... With all the consequences of that. In many other places, when necessary medical resistance, the forensics are not there, because they are in Bilbo and must be moved. Often, even the prosecutor isn't in that place. The D.A.'s Bilbon, and his interference is made through a video conference. There is no interval; he must hear and, moreover, does not hear what is happening directly. But it's the hardest thing for me to do when a woman, a child, comes to such places. And I will explain this with a clear example: "A little while ago I was to go to Bilbo's court with a woman, and there we waited from nine o'clock in the morning with a little boy. Twelve hours to wait for resistance, and to be able to talk to a judge. And that can't be consented to. It cannot be said that we are about to help people, women, children, girls, young people and young women who are subjected to sexist violence or other forms of violence, and to have them wait 12 hours in the hallway of a court of violence. And that happens. That happens, and it happens many times. But that's not all that happens. It's just that the people who report and the people who report go through the same door, they sit in the same place. The lawyers do not have a physical space to be able to interview our clients. He listens to us next door, they can't tell us things in peace. And this is what we have today in our courts. It's true that a lot of things have progressed. It is true that the measures and resources are placed, but it is true that what is going on is not right at the moment, and that is what must be cultivated and that is to be changed. That's why we asked for a visit to a place like this, and in our humble opinion today's debate would have made a lot more sense after that visit. For when we make that visit, we shall probably see from our eyes what is going on in those courts, and then we should have more elements to plan or to say to the chief physician. But today we have this, and we have to talk about it. It doesn't mean that after we've visited, we won't have a chance to correct, improve, and add something to it. And I think that, when they're planning the measures, they must go together with the money, and it's true that we'll do better to study it after this visit has been done, and after all the people have been there. This debate that we are facing today is based on two realities that have to be addressed by the measures. One is that macho violence is a serious, important and structural problem, we could say, because it exists today. And that requires from the whole world, but above all in this case, in what we are dealing with, the institutions that are in the administration of justice and the whole apparatus that is there, therefore, that there is indeed a human commitment, a commitment of material and economic means that enable the effective exercise of rights to be carried out with total and absolute clarity and without any problems. Eta beast gauza bat lotu behar dugu horrekin, what is the Administration of Justice? Well, the administration of justice has to do that service. To provide this service, to provide it well, and to provide it on the basis of the interests and rights of the victims, not the other way around. Based on this, not on the needs of the premises, not on the needs of the staff, not on the judicial needs. Based on the interest of the victims, because it is to satisfy that interest, to make their rights move forward, for what it is. That's why I think this proposition has its value. Yes, it's true that this proposition is said to be Françoise, that we're going to continue the Obaba evaluation, I don't know how much we're going to do... It is true that there is such a thing, but it is true also that there is a point where we say that it is not enough and that we will do something, and that is to say what has been forgotten by the person who has spoken before me-that is to say, we will do something." There are plans, there are evaluations. What I don't understand is, when we've got the evaluations, we're going to have to discuss this with the chief of the department. We know there are evaluations and there's no reason why he didn't correct them. We know that there is an evaluation from January, and Eukee Arana has set it up. That's right, there's consequences. How many months if we see that's in there to make it work? Is that why we insist on continuing? No. Let's go on, but let's do it, and then that's the proposition that's also planned on it. And Euskal Herria Bildu thinks that the experience of what we are living advises us to do things like this. We have to correct what is there; we have to make sure that when victims of sexist violence have to pass, because they have no other remedy or because they have decided, by the Palace of Justice, they are accompanied, they feel safe, they feel protected, they understand their rights, they can exercise them, they can propose measures... And this task is what we impose ourselves with this proposal, this is the task that Euskal Herria Bildu places itself with this proposal, and this is the task that Euskal Herria Bildu undertakes to carry out. And, to finish, I mean something. When we talk about justice, wrong comes to my mind, and I want to take advantage of this opportunity to say something: In the first place, for those famous Jordi, who are in prison to express our solidarity, and also to say that things don't get along with the supposed superficial measures, things are solved when they are political, they go to politics, go to the root and find the solution. And this is our union with the people of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u6	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u7	Good morning, everyone. The Socialists' unequivocal commitment to the fight against gender-based violence was clearly expressed by the Councilwoman of Labour and Justice in the full control of the question from which this motion derives. A commitment that goes back a long way in time, which we maintain today, and in which we will find ourselves in the future until the eradication of any kind of macho violence against women is achieved. A commitment which, as it cannot be otherwise, is inextricably linked to the active promotion of equality policies. An active commitment by the Socialists, and also by the Basque Government as a whole, as Lehendakari himself reminded Mrs Arana from this rostrum in the last full session of control. Prevention, detection, care, protection and social awareness, all of which have a cross-cutting presence in policies developed in the departments of the Basque Government. They are not concrete departures, they are not concrete departures under the name of "equality", but measures that cross-cutting all the work of the Government. The debate in strictly economic terms is, in our view, reductionist and demagogic. But today the motion is directed towards the concrete action of the Vice-Council of Justice, and I could say without a grudge that "I am glad that you ask me this question", because it has certainly been gratifying to arrive at a compromise amendment with all the groups in this House to ask this department, led by a socialist councilwoman, to continue doing things as it is doing. And it is that socialists do not conceive of any other way of developing justice policies, or any other policy, except on the basis of the actual and effective application of principles as fundamental as the principle of equality and non-discrimination. The Deputy Councillor of Justice and the entire Department of Labour and Justice, and the entire Basque Government, apply, as cannot otherwise be the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as well as the gender perspective, as already reflected in the axes of intervention of the Sixth Plan for Equality of Men and Women. So how can we not agree, how will we not agree on this point of the amendment! Because we do and we're going to keep doing it. We are also strong advocates of the need to evaluate public policies in order to check their effectiveness and efficiency, to maintain what works and to improve on what dysfunctions or deficiencies are detected. And that even if there was not an express mandate by law to do so, as is this particular case, because it is in our conception of politics, and under this prism is how socialists implement policies, in this case of justice, in the fight against macho violence and in any other policy that we have to develop. We do, you know, and we'll keep doing it. We are therefore pleased to agree on this approach with the rest of the political forces in the parliamentary arc. And, as it cannot be otherwise, we do not conceive this without the participation of the people involved in the services we provide or in the measures we put in place, both in their design and in their evaluation. And one fact that can corroborate what I am commenting on is that in the evaluation carried out this year, for example, of judicial remedies in the area of violence against women, prosecutors, judges, Department of Justice services, such as the Coordinating Centre for Violence against Women, the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine, the judicial psychosocial team, or the victim care service. But they have also taken part in women's associations, bar associations and prosecutors, victims of gender-based violence who have come or who have had to be in court proceedings, and Ararteko himself. It will not be surprising in this House, therefore, that we share in urging us to continue doing things as we are doing them, to do them in this way. However, all this commitment to how to do policy must be accompanied by the actions needed to adapt services to the new needs identified or to correct aspects for better care and protection, and that is where we wanted to focus on the compromise amendment. The Department of Labour and Justice already takes into account the recommendations made in the management of services and the implementation of policies, and I say this to you because, as you will already know, the 2016 OPE has been approved by the Ministry of Justice, with 108 places for the Administration of Justice. It is now time to finalize the 2017 OPE agreement, with a clear objective, and to reach the 400 places in 2018. As for the training of legal operators, something we have also talked about a lot here, in 2017 300 places have been offered in specific courses on gender violence, having been trained in the concrete course of violence against women 115 officials. We must not forget that there is also the formative complement that we have under the name of "the system of tutoring", in which, in a theoretical and practical way, and taught by experienced officials in this field, officials of the courts of violence are also tutored. In this case, 48 staff members have been trained under this procedure. Not only officials, but also judges and magistrates, who have eight training courses throughout 2017, and eight others who were also able to access last year. And, as you all know and will know, next week you will also have the opportunity to discuss in the days to be held in tribute to José María Lidon, in particular on 9 and 10, the challenges posed by the criminal process at this time after the adoption of the Victims' Statute. That is, if a person-oriented justice is possible, with presentations about the protection of the child and the pre-constituted evidence of the victims of the crime and how to avoid their revictimization. It is true that all these issues and concepts have emerged these days in the debate that we have brought to this Parliament on these matters. I will not forget, logically, the works of adequacy at the Vitoria Gender Violence Court, which have been committed during this year, to seek, and it is true, the necessary privacy to the victims or the non-concurrence with the victim, in spaces that guarantee their safety, confidentiality and comfort. Or those already held at Bilbao's Palace of Justice. And it is true that the physical structures have their limitations; therefore, with this objective also to guarantee this safety, confidentiality or comfort, the Victim Care Service will strengthen the program of integral support to victims, especially those of gender violence, so that the victim who has to go to the court will do so in the best conditions to avoid secondary victimization, so that the person is equipped with tools to face the process with guarantees, with detailed information, with constant assistance, with fluid communication, with socialization of the waiting, with management of protocols of access to the court and use of spaces, with a possibility of being in the resolution of unforeseen situations, thus approaching the service to the concept of what is therapeutic accompaniment. I will not forget either, because you know him and he was also appointed in the appearance made by the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, who described him as the jewel of the crown, of the service provided by the Basque Penis Management Service with the Gakoa program, for the change of attitudes of men condemned for crimes of gender violence, after the normalization that has occurred in group therapy groups and its implementation in the three Basque capitals. So what are we asking of the government? It includes in a plan all the measures it is taking and those that it is going to take to address the recommendations arising from the evaluations carried out. Our intention was that this compromise amendment could capture those measures, because it was true that new issues were being put in place, but no innovation has been made with regard to what the department is already doing and what it is going to do. The goal I believe we all share: to improve and ensure access to justice for women, girls, boys and adolescents who are victims of sexist violence, and to ensure their non-revictimization at the secondary level. The last point that has been incorporated has been said by the proposer who comes at the request of the People's Party. I understand that, because in the Congress of Deputies, neither Podemos nor the Confederal Group of Podemos, nor EH Bildu supported the state pact against gender-based violence, a pact they consider lame. But – I think you have said this here, those who have come out to intervene before me – it is that when you have to reach an agreement you have to give up certain positions. An agreement cannot be reached unless it is sufficiently high-minded to know that the State pact against gender-based violence is a positive step. And it is not just the groups that have given him support in the Congress of Deputies; it is also said by these women's associations, those feminist associations that have been able to participate in the work that has been carried out over a whole year. It is a useful pact, which has an economic commitment, and in which it will certainly have to be followed up. And I am glad that they have incorporated it, because, of course, it is true that we must urge the Basque Government to cooperate with the other institutions involved in this pact in order to implement the measures that have been adopted there. Of course, it would be good, it is good, or I think that is good, and I too am pleased that this agreement will come out unanimously. And it is a shame that we do not have decision-making capacity, right?, in other areas for taking an important step and also marking the unanimity that means defending those measures necessary to combat gender-based violence. In any case, it is a matter for all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u9	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislative class, all good days. Today we are discussing the cause of the election, which Polydemos brought together, about the Administration of Justice, and the Machiisticity of violence, and, strictly speaking, about the possible measures in which Eukadin court-martials can improve. We are facing a serious issue: for this is the most violent expression of violence, of inequality between men and women. For this reason, it is clear that we all share that violence against women is the most brutal expression of inequality, and that it is necessary to continue to take measures to try and eradicate it. And it is true, as Mrs Arana mentioned, that the data corroborate an increase in the number of complaints of violence against women, not only in recent months, but it is a phenomenon that has been taking place in recent years. And it is due to a greater social awareness, the result of the efforts of the women themselves and their organizations, and also of the institutions, which makes a greater visibility and collective rejection of this violence in all its versions in our society. The current legal framework is the Organic Law 1/2004, on Measures for Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, which establishes, among other things, the creation of courts specialized in violence against women, their territorial organization, their competence, jurisdiction, their headquarters and their plant, which is what we are talking about today, and which should have clear areas of competence in judicial matters: in the case of our Autonomous Community, with competence in this field, the obligation is to provide the courts and tribunals with the personal and material means necessary for the proper development of the judicial function. In addition to this responsibility of the Basque Government to provide material and personal resources to the Administration of Justice, we also have competences that are served with our own services. Some have been mentioned here, such as the Victim Care Service, the Legal Guidance and Free Legal Assistance Service, the family referral points, the Gender Violence Coordination Centre, the Basque Penis Management Service, with the Gaukoa programme – referred to by Mrs. Castelo right now – the psychosocial teams or the comprehensive forensic assessment units of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. We all understand that they are doing important work with victims of violence against women. And we also have the tools of the Basque Institute for Women-Emakunde, created in 1988, and the Basque Equality Act of 2005, which is a pioneer, as it consists of a specific chapter regulating the prevention and eradication of violence against women, and the Sixth Positive Action Plan for Equality of Women and Men, all interpreted in accordance with international human rights law and the Council of Europe Istanbul Convention of 2011. As Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, from Elkarrekin's initial proposal, it could be inferred that we in Euskadi are starting from scratch in this matter, that nothing has been done so far and that everything is to be done, and that it was going to be precisely following his initiative as the Basque Government was going to have to put the batteries – let me say it – and start working decisively on this matter. Nothing further from reality, as reflected in the amendment finally laid down. Your proposal we understand was a little late and at the same time in a hurry, Mrs Arana. I share what Mrs Goirizelaia said about the timing of the motion. Next Monday we have a visit to the gender-based violence courts in Bilbao to see the current situation, and even we raise the possibility of visiting other smaller courts of mixed judicial parties, to see the different typologies and to have a direct knowledge of the real situation, to see if the real situation is the chaotic situation you pose or, as the President of the High Court of Justice said, it is an important but not particularly worrying problem. I believe that between one thing and another there is a path, a very wide stretch. Mrs Arana, last 31 January, the Commissioner for Labour and Justice, Mrs San José, appeared in this Parliament in committee to explain to all the parliamentary groups the broad lines of action of these two departments. In particular, with regard to the area of justice, he expressed the need for a process of public audit and evaluation of the judicial system in Euskadi with criteria and parameters based on its efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability and ensuring effective judicial protection. In addition to affirming that attention to victims of violence against women deserves special attention, and expressly undertaking clear commitments in this area, such as ensuring material and economic support to the courts, particularly the specialized ones; strengthening the quality of training, strengthening the awareness of all actors in gender-based violence, guaranteeing victims safety, comfort and privacy in compliance with the Istanbul Convention, avoiding contact between victims and victims, and further strengthening specialized legal aid services that avoid delays and delays in statements. As I said, this appearance, the first before all the parliamentary groups, was on 31 January 2017, barely nine months ago, and you know that, although you were not in that committee, you were representatives of all the parliamentary groups, also yours, Elkarrekin Podemos. And I am no longer going to ask you whether you know how much time of your speech you have devoted to the topic that you bring us to the full today in this important appearance; I will sum it up by saying that you did not devote a single word to this topic, neither in the first speaking shift nor in the second. Arana andrea, Elkarrekin Podemosek ez zion hitz-erdirik ere eskaini emakumeen kontrako indarkeriaren biktimentzako arrested judicial, age hori duela bederatzi hilabete eskas izan zen. Elkarrekin Podemos did not devote a single word to the judicial care of victims of violence against women, and that was barely nine months ago. Yes to the problem of forensic doctors, yes to the free justice, yes to the specialization of the Office of the Prosecutor for new crimes, and yes to the transfer of prisons, but not to the situation of the Administration of Justice in relation to Machist violence. Just nine months ago. And this doesn't make us think about Elkarrekin's lack of commitment We can in this matter, much less. That is why, in the same way, we demand the same respect and recognition as the other way around on many occasions. And on the other hand we wonder whether there has been at this time, in these nine few months, so much change in the administration of justice to pass, not to be interested in this first appearance in general terms, to the introduction of a motion, as they also said, with an excessively critical tone, from our point of view. And yes, there have been some changes in this time, some facts. In addition to having to regret since then several murders of women in our autonomous community and serious episodes of violence against women that we will not tire of condemning and that must motivate us to continue working to build a society free of violence against women, the executive report of Emakunde on judicial remedies and legal aid in the area of violence against women was finalized at the end of January. A report that, in fulfilment of the mandate of article 51.2 of the Basque Equality Act, makes a second assessment nine years after the one already carried out in 2007, with the objectives of knowing the reality of victims of violence in relation to their passage through the judicial system, to identify the necessary improvements taking into account added vulnerabilities (such as minor, functional diversity, major, immigrant, etc.), and to know and value the coverage of the legal framework according to the degree of normative and strategic compliance, the strengths and weaknesses of the system and the quality of structures, processes, scope and coordination. That is, what you and your group today in the second point called for to be carried out by the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government, but months after that. The evaluation has been carried out by contrasting with the different legal operators, professionals and professionals providing legal aid, with women who have had contact with the system and with associations carrying out counselling and support activities for survivors. In total, sixty-six people interviewed and thirty respondents. That is, what you and your group demanded at the fourth point of your motion, but months after it was made. The above-mentioned report provides a comprehensive review of the activities of all relevant bodies and presents a number of conclusions and recommendations that must enable us to draw up a plan for the improvement of the judicial system and legal aid in this area and to ensure the secondary non-victimization of these women. What you and your group requested in the third point of your proposal. With regard to the first point of his proposal, in which he said that the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as well as the gender perspective, should be introduced into the policies of the vice-counsel, we therefore believe that it has been collected and recognised, as the final amendment remains, that the planning of equality policies is part of the usual activity of the departments of the Basque Government, which has administrative units of equality in all departments. And, in addition to the above-mentioned report, other milestones on the subject that need to be mentioned. On 21 February, the Governing Council approved the government programme of this legislature, where on the axis "Quality Public Services, Quality Justice", commitment 157 refers to improving judicial care for victims of gender-based violence with three specific initiatives to be developed. And on 28 February, the Governing Council approved the legislative calendar for this legislature, which contains a legislative project for the eradication of violence against women, in order to strengthen and complete the prevention and response we are offering to this type of violence. Therefore, and as I said earlier, it seems that your proposal was a little late and in a hurry, Mrs Arana. And finally, in the face of the clumsy evidence of the facts, an agreement has been reached with you and your group, which has then been extended to other parliamentary groups, which we welcome, with the inclusion also of the reference to the state pact against gender-based violence recently adopted at the Congress of Deputies. Agreement that, as I said, we value positively, because, in addition to recognizing the work done, it looks resolutely towards the search for real measures and solutions to further advance the common goal of having an equal society free of violence against women. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing over to the answers, Arana is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u11	Eskerrik asko. I wasn't going to intervene, but, in view of the comments, then, yes, I will. Mrs Alexia, we have accepted "pulpo" as "an animal of company", with "to continue doing", because we give them an opportunity, do not mistake, since it is evident, in view of the data and the cases and the facts and testimonies, that not much is being done, not to say little, and I hope it is nothing. Like I said, we think they want to do, we give them a chance to do it. That's what they're coming to tell us. Please do it. We're giving a vote of confidence. Take it. Because testimonies like those mentioned by Mrs. Jone exist, and there are many. In my question to the Councilwoman of Labour and Justice, I told her one, and I repeat it, and I will say it again here: they share the room in which the complainants have to wait, which is quite small, in which the windows cannot be opened, and there is neither water nor food nor free access to the bathroom. There they all wait together for hours, each with his or her mood, and many times with his or her daughters and children. Since there is no space in which you can be with your lawyer to tell you what has happened, receive legal aid and make decisions, you have to count it right there, with the other women in front. Sometimes many cry, and the others, who are going through the same thing, become infected with emotions and come down. And the creatures in front of it. It's an old-fashioned situation. This is told by a person who works in the courts. If it seems to you, Mrs Alexia and Mr Javier, that I am critical of these situations, I must be. Another thing. So, Mrs. Alexia, let the government do what it has to do, and don't come to us selling flowers, because the courts of violence are full of nettles. I love that the lord of the PNV says – forgive me for not remembering his last name – that Machist violence is the most brutal expression of inequality. I invite you to comment on this assessment to the Government, so that it can be made clear, because the other day I was told that if I thought it was the Government's responsibility to eradicate sexist violence. Of course, because sexist violence is based on inequality, and it is the responsibility of the Government to eradicate inequality. So they have an opportunity for all the political forces that have approved this today, especially those that can change budgets. Instead of continuing to have 0.02 in the budgets for equality issues, please increase it to at least 0.05, or 0.1%, which would be very good and would be very good at eradicating violence. They have commented that we have not been concerned about the issue of sexist violence and those tried in this legislature, which has not been our concern. Look, in the budget debates we asked a question, which, I say, "we would like to ask you about the gender impact report with the budgets, where it is indicated that newly created departments – such as in this case Labour and Justice – have to incorporate an administrative unit of equality in its structure to comply with Decree 213/2007". And we asked him if they had planned the creation of the above-mentioned unit for 2017. As of today, we have not yet had an answer. We're worried. We're going little by little, and we'll keep working. Don't worry, we're going to give this a lot of war. For Labour and Justice in Budgets, we made an amendment to create a budget for a study on access to justice for children and adolescents. You didn't approve of it. Here we can see who is, or is not, working or evaluating or taking steps to address this. It's in his hand. We are opposition. We will continue to emphasize this kind of thing, we will continue to put the magnifying glass on those things that you are not doing. And, Mrs. Alexia, really, show us that the government you're with can and will do things to improve the courts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, just two notes: Official Gazette of the General Courts, Senate Bulletin number 131 of 2017, of 28 July. It collects the state pact signed in July this year against gender-based violence, which you, Mrs Arana, did not want to sign, as you have told us today, among other issues, because you did not collect any funding. It contains 265 proposals and measures; read 263: concrete funding for the next five years, EUR 1 billion. If that's not having funding, you'll tell me! I understand that in such general agreements sometimes there are political formations that they want to have a unique photo and give a speech alone, without worrying about the real background. You didn't want to be in the photo, but please don't criticize that pact and not tell us that we have to leave it out or that we don't have to pay attention to it because you have no funding and other shortcomings that you have commented, that if you read it slowly you would actually pick up the phone and call your Madrid colleagues and embarrass them for not having been in that photograph. And, Mrs Goirizelaia, I'm surprised you didn't get your attention for getting off the subject. You go up to the rostrum, and take the time to show solidarity with alleged criminals, but instead you lose the opportunity to show solidarity and congratulate all the local police officers of the different municipalities of the Basque Country, all the agents of the Ertzaintza, who have done a multitude of specialization and training courses in gender-based violence, who follow and accompany spectacular and immediate response 24 hours a day to all the people who go through this process so hard to be forced to go to the police stations and the courts. It is true, of course, that there is a lack of infrastructure in the courts, and that they are very improveable, but you devote time to what you dedicate it to and you have also lost the opportunity in this case to put in value, to exalt and to thank the work of hundreds of specialized officials of the courts of violence, or of those judges who perform the functions of violence in the smaller courthouses, who diverge to give rooms, to give spaces, to avoid unpleasant encounters, to make statements or appearances by video conferencing even within a courthouse, who take people through the corridors dedicated to the officials, and who do not leave them lying in the corridors, Mrs Goirizelaia. It seems to me very good that you make your political speech and your support for all kinds of prisoners and criminals, but please do true justice! You are an intelligent woman, and thank the people who fill those gaps, which is what we urge with this motion, with this agreement today, to improve within the palaces of justice. Because they exist, they exist. Very improveable, it is true, but, of course, the work of all the professionals who are dedicated to it cannot be overlooked. And I don't think it's too much to go up to the rostrum and thank, especially all those Ertzaintza and local police officers who dissuade in the care and care of the victims. And if you have known victims who have not had that support from these special agents and Department of Justice officials working in specialized courts and common investigative courts, it will be because these victims have not been well advised. Because you know that with a single phone call you automatically have legal aid, which is going to be the one that will open all the doors and all the cast of possibilities, that the personal work of all these people helps the victims in those hard drinks they have to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Will the Representative of the EH Group, Lady of the High Court, take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the truth is that I had no intention of intervening in this second part, but in the face of your direct inquiries, I think I have to go out and answer him. Look, what we've come here to explain is what's wrong, what's wrong and what we think needs to be corrected. That is the approach of Euskal Herria Bildu. Obviously, if there are things that are good, it's about improving them, but they're already good, so we don't have to explain what's good, but what doesn't work. And what doesn't work from the point of view of putting the mechanisms in place for that to work. We've talked about a lot of things here, and I've explained a lot of things. There are issues that are in the hands of the councillor, the councillor, but there are issues that are not. But in our global approach we understand that we have to talk about everything, and then I don't have to congratulate anyone. Because, look, to make congratulations you are already alone; you have already come here, you have congratulated, and you have also congratulated yourself for how good you do things. Well, then, that's it. You are very complacent and you do everything perfectly well, but the palpable demonstration that that is not what is happening and what is going to happen today: that you do not do things right, that you want to impose your thesis on all places, also here. And that's a problem, too, here. Your amendment also came in those terms: as we are doing everything superbly in Madrid, let's put this here. No, that doesn't work that way. And I sympathize with who I think I have to sympathize with. Obviously, with criminals like those who have been tried these days in Madrid at the National Court, I do not sympathize with those. You sympathize with them, you cover them, you support them, you cover them, and you continue to take no responsibility. With the corrupt, with whom they steal the money, the People's Party stands in solidarity, not Euskal Herria Bildu. Euskal Herria Bildu is in solidarity with rights, with freedom and with Catalonia, which is what we understand we have to do. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u16	Thank you, madam. Castelo, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u17	We were not going to use the second round, but sometimes when unanimity is reached, it is when the debate starts the most. And Mrs. Arana (or Eukene) tells me that she accepts octopus as companion animal. For he accepts "pulpo" as "an animal of company" because reality is very clumsy, isn't it?And when reality is put before him, then there is nothing left to do but turn to where things have to be recognized. Because it's a long time ago, things are done. It is not true that vision so extremely tearing that it shows us. You do things and you do them right. But it is also true, and I acknowledge it, that there is an important room for improvement, because, if not, we would not be all of us at this time trying to reach an agreement on further progress. So, what I would like would be concrete proposals, and I told you when I was negotiating the transactional with you. But I lack these concrete measures both in their original proposal and in the compromise proposal. Because, beyond making an evaluation, beyond making a plan to implement those evaluation recommendations, there is nothing else. And you say, "I propose, I'm going to give war with proposals," and you tell me to make a report. But if there are reports, from all areas and from all legal operators! What is needed are concrete measures, and that is where the care and support programmes are, the training, awareness-raising and participation programmes; the very commitment that exists of all legal operators, which does not arise from nothing, arises from the measures that have been put in place for many years, and from that social awareness and from that commitment that is made by all institutions to achieve or at least try to eradicate gender-based violence against women. So, between that, when we're asked a question... And it is true, there are certain flaws in the courts, something that is well known from the Department of Labour and Justice, because we were told that he had visited all the courts. Some adaptations have been put in place, but we also know the limitation that determines a specific physical space. But that can also be solved in another way. That's why I came up with the concept of what therapeutic accompaniment is. And there we also have the commitment of many legal operators to make the tours of the court... Because you cannot build a wall, so that there is no physical contact, nor can you have separate rooms with biombos, which is not the right thing either. It is carried out with access protocols for different itineraries, and there is a permanent accompaniment of a reference person, who takes confidence with the person and gives him tools to overcome a process that will be traumatic. Access to justice or the passing of justice, in this or in other cases, always means a traumatic issue for those who have to go to it. More in this case. That's why I recognize you..., I mean, I'm critical, I recognize that we do things (and how am I not going to say that we do them!), and I also recognize that there is room for improvement. What I'm saying is that you should also be able to recognize that, here and in the Congress of Deputies, because both your group and EH Bildu, but for different reasons, have not been able to see that 263 measures something positive have to have, some step forward have to be. And it is not said by political groups, it is said by those feminist associations to which you so much like to refer, which means continuing to advance. The total advance? No, of course not. But logically there are a lot of measures – and they have been commented on – in legislative amendments that are necessary and have to be made. And it's important sometimes not to have so much rash for getting together in an agreement with certain acronyms and not having to always look for the unique photo. Sometimes being in a group photo and in the overall photo brings more to society than other issues. That's why we were questioning the issue of the state pact. But, in any case, what I am glad about is that Elkarrekin We can here want you to work together so that those measures that need to be put in place, those that compete with us as an autonomous community, can also be developed here from the interinstitutional collaboration. In that sense, I believe that what we had to do here today was to show solidarity with what it was up to us to show solidarity, which is nothing more than to show solidarity with all the victims of gender-based violence. There will be other points and other issues to be addressed, but this point touched on what it touched on. Solidarize ourselves with who? With those who suffer the scourge of macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Arana, I didn't say Elkarrekin We may not be interested in this matter. I don't think if you've understood it like that, you haven't paid any attention to me. I have told you, I believe, in Castilian, and in Basque, part of it, that it is that at the appearance on 31 January, in which the councillor explained the general lines of action for this legislature in the field of justice, Elkarrekin Podemos (his group) did not devote a word to the situation that you claim today, from the attention to gender victims in justice. Perhaps it is that you were not in that committee, and now it is when you put forward, in a hurry and, as I told you, late, these kinds of initiatives. I also believe that I have specified that this – and I am going to read it literally – should not devote a single word to this subject in the most important appearance of the councilwoman in this legislature, where she explained the general lines, this "does not make us think of the lack of commitment of Elkarrekin We can in this matter, much less". So let me make it clear to you. He also spoke of approaches in which the Nationalist Party, the parliamentary group Euzko Abertzaleak, voted against. Man, look, tell me that Elkarrekin We can, when your positions – and we've seen it right now, talking about the state pact – are maximalists one hundred percent (or everything, or nothing)... So, I believe that they have also been required here to be more pragmatic and to go down to earth, and that little by little and step by step they can get things. Trying to get everything probably leads us to get nothing. Finally, there is no doubt that the issue of violence against women is an issue that is of great concern to the Basque Government and to the parliamentary groups that support it, which is on our political agenda. And that the actions you put forward in your motion on the administration of justice and violence against women, Mrs Arana, as we have shown you, are already being carried out on the Government's own initiative and commitment. We are aware that there is a long way to go, a lot to go to improve (there is a need to work on prevention and support for victims), and that to do so we need the support of all. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars, EH Collect, Eukal Sozialists, and Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u21	It has therefore been unanimously admitted to the correction of the medium. Second point on the subject list: "Mary, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munininka, member of the Populative Groups, in the quality of water-mass in this summer of Eukadin, in flora and fauna, have suffered severe effects in the public jabaria hydraulic javaria. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the proposor, the representative of the Basque Potula, Carmen lópez de ocarari, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u22	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion as a result of the inquiry that we presented to the Councillor on 6 October and which was backed up in this House, which referred to the uncontrolled discharges of pollutants that are being produced into the public hydraulic domain of Euskadi, with serious consequences for the quality of the water masses, the flora and aquatic fauna affected. Uncontrolled contaminants which focus, as the Councillor told us, on two main points. The Zadorra basin, in the areas of Zadorra-Salvatierra, Zadorra-Trespuentes, Zadorra-Mendibil and Durana, in the area of Treviño Zadorra-La Puebla; also the Englares in Peñacerrada, Alegría, in Matauco, and the Omecillo in Salinas. These points do not meet the minimum water quality values required by the Water Framework Directive. Also the first stretch of the Nervion, in the valley of Ayala, told us the counselor that it is another conflict point that also became evident in the interpellation. Two conflicting points which urgently need purification infrastructure, but which are currently in the pipeline. The reality is that this non-execution, this non-action in infrastructures essential for the treatment and sanitation of the waters that pour into the rivers, has harmful consequences for the quality of the waters of these rivers, with effects also for sediments, flora and fauna. The advisor told us that the percentage of surface water masses in the Basque Country in good ecological condition has improved in recent years. Yes, the average has improved, the average percentage has improved, but the reality is that in the critical points, such as the case of Zadorra and its four control points, the ecological state, according to the different last indicators we have, is worse than in previous controls. It is clear that one of the most significant pressures affecting surface water bodies is the unpurified or insufficiently purified direct discharge alterations of both urban and industrial origin, and is one of the main causes that in our autonomous community condition the achievement of the environmental objectives of hydrological planning, which are mainly to prevent the deterioration of the water bodies' condition, to achieve the optimum level of good water bodies' condition, and to eliminate or reduce pollution by dangerous and priority substances. These are the objectives of hydrological planning that are in line with the Water Framework Directive. In the case of Zadorra, the situation is serious. Here direct discharges and insufficiently purified discharges coincide; discharges that are repeated systematically, with data and percentages of contamination on priority chemicals that far exceed the limit of contamination. And they are repeated with negative indicators in the analyses that are made periodically, that the last ones, as I said before, are more negative than the previous ones, which can have chronic effects, which the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation says in its analysis documents. Also in the analyses of the preferred substances, non-compliances are detected in the analyses, as I said, exceeding the limits of contamination and detecting higher concretions than in previous years. And sediments, with very high concentrations above the pollution limit, but in mercury, cadmium, copper, chromium, nickel, lead... at last. This is what the results of the analysis made by the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation give. If we continue to look at the basin, at the reservoirs of the Zadorra, we must bear in mind that they supply Vitoria-Gasteiz, to consumption of population, and also to a large part of the population of Bizkaia, to which 30,842 cubic metres per year are allocated, and a similar amount (30,602 cubic metres per year, according to the data I have consulted) to the irrigation. In other words, 92 % of the total demand for the Zadorra reservoir basin is destined for human consumption and irrigation of products intended for consumption. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth working hard to improve the quality of these waters, because we are playing a lot. The most important river in Euskadi, by population it supplies, suffers from continuous pollutant discharges, which causes its effluent to contaminate the river due to malfunctioning of the EDAR. I think it is worth having the best measures to improve the quality of this water, which, as we say, has bad levels. We have hydrological planning of basins, as set out in the Water Framework Directive, and this planning aims, among other things, to achieve the good condition of water bodies, surface bodies and underground bodies. The strategic environmental statement of the hydrological plans already sets out the programmes of measures on the state of the water bodies, and also marks milestones, objectives, for the years 2015, 2021 and 2027. These programmes of measures to improve the state of the water bodies have their plans for monitoring the implementation of the measures, and for this it is essential to have control points of the network of monitoring the chemical state of the Basque rivers, which, according to the data that I have, currently in Euskadi are 144; of them, 36 are in Álava, and four are in the section of the Zadorra-Salvatierra-Ullibarri. Our motion focused mainly on achieving the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, which, as we have said, were to prevent the deterioration of water bodies, to achieve the good condition of those bodies of water, and to eliminate and reduce pollution by hazardous substances or pollutants, which are priorities at least. And, as I said, our motion focused on deepening control of the chemical and biological state of the Zadorra River, increasing control points, getting control of the effluents of the Salvatierra EDAR and those of the rest of Euskadi. Because, as we have already said, and a study that has done the UPV says, these effluents are the main cause of pollution, and we need to have comprehensive controls. I therefore believe that we are focusing on achieving that objective set by the Water Framework Directive, and also, in those areas such as the Zadorra basin, trying to eliminate pollution. Because, as the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation says, it can become chronic, and that would be much more complicated. The House groups have made amendments to this initiative, and a compromise amendment has been reached which has also been supported and consulted with the Government. And it has to be said that the original initiative has been substantially improved, because it has been concrete in those aspects that are already reflected in the hydrological plans, but really that the hydrological plans are documents too broad and with a lot of literature, that do not get to clearly appreciate the points of action. And, therefore, I believe that these amendments have greatly improved, because it makes for us very clear and concise those aspects and those studies and actions that need to be carried out in order to achieve the objective of improving the quality of water bodies. If I may, I will read the compromise amendment, because it seems to me that the agreement that has been reached is very important and very effective for a complicated objective. And the amendment says, the first point says: "The Basque Parliament considers that the quality of river waters is a good indicator of the ecological state of the Basque river channels, and therefore urges the Basque Government and the other competent administrations in this area to increase the technical, economic and administrative efforts being made in this area". This is very important, because we have plans, we have follow-up plans, we have measures, but it is very important to have resources. We said it the other day when we were talking about contaminated soils, and today we must also repeat it: we must increase technical efforts, economic and administrative efforts, because this is basic to achieving the objectives. We also say in point 2 that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to submit, within one year and in collaboration with the other institutions with competence in this field, a comprehensive plan for the improvement of the state of the surface water bodies of the Basque Country, which, inter alia, should include: a detailed study of the needs for the completion of the network of collectors and wastewater treatment infrastructures of Euskadi; the measures necessary for the implementation of a programme for the continuous monitoring and control of all Euskadi EDARs; a programme for the implementation of tertiary wastewater treatment in all Euskadi EDARs; the investments necessary for the implementation of at least one control point by each Category 1 and 2 river, in which the flow and the required chemical and ecological parameters are measured; the actions necessary for the implementation of a programme for measuring, controlling and remediing priority substances and emerging pollutants; the actions to be carried out for the purposes of the analysis of the state of our rivers, with a view to a complete analysis of the physical state; the measurements and the measurements of the results of the results; the results of the results; the results of the results; the results of the results; the results; the results; the results of the results of the results. This is also very important, to know the time frames within which each measure can be met in order to achieve the objectives. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in view of the urgency of the situation, to urgently increase the number of checkpoints of the chemical and biological state of the Zadorra River, implementing continuous control techniques, especially in the effluents of the Agurain EDAR. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to publish, in the annual publications on the state of the rivers, information relating to the quality of the effluents of the EDARs and information on the management of the bypasses of them (including frequencies and minimum flows issued in this way); information relating to the control of the discharges carried out, the investigation procedures investigated, the open files, the percentage of them that has ended in sanction, the type of sanction, including the financial amount they have received, and finally, it reports on those cases that could have been dealt with through criminal procedure". And as the last point of the compromise amendment "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the other concerned administrations to work in a coordinated manner with the Ertzaintza and the Prosecutor's Office to investigate the origin of the illegal discharges suffered by the river channels, to put in place the necessary means to process the sanctioning files diligently, and to establish the administrative and criminal responsibilities corresponding to each case". Ladies and gentlemen, I am the one who presented this initiative, but this compromise amendment has been achieved with the cooperation of all groups and the essential cooperation of the Government and the Department of the Environment. And Mr. Counsellor is here, but I have to quote Mrs. Deputy Counsellor, because I think she has been very sensitive to the reality that we have in our rivers, and especially in the Zadorra basin. And I want to say that it seems to us to be a very important agreement, because it brings together all the measures necessary to achieve the objectives, to have a good quality of water. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The turn of the teams who have advanced the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u24	Yes, good morning. I must confess that, after listening to the intervention of Mari Carmen López de Ocaris, she has left me almost without speech, because among other things, she has read the whole middle correction, and that, after she's been working for the last few days, was the document we've taken out of, and finally showed the consequences of our discussion. So I think I'll be short. But, well, I'd like to say a couple of things, wouldn't I? We must note that there is a tremendous amount of pressure around the water, and that the state of our waters is not at all good, is it? It must also be observed that the jurisdictions around the water are widely divided between institutions or institutions, in which the Government of the State participates, the joys, theputies, the townships, the conjuices, the divergings, the irrigations, the irrigations, the irrigations, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruptions, the irruption, the irruption, the irruption, the irruption, the irruption, the irruption... And, after all, out of practice and even from users. They therefore create a very complex situation, and it is a sign that the beginning of so many things as now occur to us is partly because of this complexity, and, for instance, now that which is taking place with the EDARra of Bio has something to do with it. For who ought to control the gifts which extend to the EDAR, and then the EDAR itself, or who shall govern it? And then, in the end, who makes control of it, that is, of its afluent. And that gives us a lot of trouble, too. So it won't be easy, though today we think we've put an interesting point to the improvement of the situation. Anyway, I'd like to go back a little, at least last week, to the discussion we had, and I want to remember, too, about Garoña and nuclear energy in some of the things I said about at least, that the use of our resources around us and the ways of our life system produce certain problems which are due to a long period, and it was very clear in the case of nuclear energy. And I believe, too, that in the case of water it is clearly seen or seen. I don't know if this is an example. I don't know if this summer you remember, some very curious photographs came out of the Esscal smoking... This was the Ambeze, dyed red, and this was the river Zador, dyed white. [[Shows a photo]] Which led me to my childhood. Because, well, I don't know if there's a lot of people here born in the Forest of the Oria, that is to say, living or bred there, but I remember how it's time 70. In the old days, Tolya went down the river I.... When we went to the pool, we went to see what color this river was that day, and we called it "el río colorines," because sometimes the green came, sometimes yellow, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And often, we say, hubba, well that in a period of time there was a certain kind of development in those great damages in the environment, and that now things are different. I think that the two photographs I have shown are a bit characteristic of both: on the one hand, that things have not been improved so much, and on the other hand, we have some inheritances which have come from a definite manner of development, and which have continued to affect an immense amount of influence, and which is only to be seen when they are examined by heavy metals in our rivers and in the sedimation of our rivers, and so on. Or the HCH linda case, for instance, where it went down in the '80s and, until the year 2013, we didn't know that it was litandon, for instance, in the Zador River. And that's because until then there hasn't been any measurements. As I am told by a scientist who works in a cornfield, it is not usually that he who is not measured. And one of our goals was to measure a number of new matters and make special programs in substances a priori, emergentes, etc., etc. So we've tried to make contributions in a construction way, and I'm really grateful, as Mrs. lópez said, for the response to the government. And it seems to me, in a way, that the two things we have accomplished today are important: On the one hand, a approval, because it will be unanimously admitted that the situation of our rivers is not good, and that acceptance appears to me to be very important. And then, on the other hand, to put a boundary through a plan, to see what are the works and measures to be done, or the years to come, and so on. Well, that's another problem, and it's necessarily the problem, and it's supposed to be the EBA techniques that make it clear if we want to control them more, or if we want to control them in a continuous manner, that's worth money. And then, of course, here comes the review I've always done to this government and to the others, and it's environmental is "poor hermaphrodite." As long as we don't actually make a real economic effort, we can make plans, and I think the plan can be arranged because of what we've got today, but if we don't have any money, we can't carry our plans forward and the situation will still be bad. And I wanted to put another note here too. It's not just that all the parliamentary groups we're here have to seize and admit that things have to be improved, but I think that there's a more and more obvious force from outside, and the European Union is giving serious warnings. Guk galdetu dugu hiriko hondakin-uren inguruan Europan éta lau leku zehatzen inguruan galdetu dugu, Goi Nerbioi, alde battik, age Busturialdea, beasts alde battik, Pasai Donibane, beasts alde battik, age Ermua-Mallabia, non uren kality bone txarra den, oraindik azpiegiturak bukatu gabe daudelako. Erantzuten digutena Europar Batasunean says "of the four urban areas referred to in the written question, the Commission can only report on the agglomerations of Alto Nervión and Busturialdea". Eta jarraitzen du, says: "While neither of the two agglomerations meets the secondary treatment requirements laid down in the directive for agglomerations of more than 15,000 inhabitants, they are, together with others, included in a broader infringement procedure which the Commission launched on 8 December 2016." In the package of sanctions procedures, which arrives on 4 October of the European Union, again warns the state... And, of course, we always have the temptation to blame the State, but it is clear here that all the administrations have responsibility, because none of them has fully fulfilled their duties. Of course, this has a result, and the result is that, regardless of whether URA, within the means it has, is doing what it can, because of course the technical knowledge and interest must be acknowledged to URA, but the lack of means must also be demonstrated... And we are also a little concerned that in the end we try to explain that a job is being done, which is obviously being done, but then also, when the results are given, the results end up making up a little bit. So, we talk about "so much of the physical state of the rivers is not good," "so much of the chemical state of the rivers is not good," but actually the Water Framework Directive told us that by 2015 the global state of each of the water bodies had to be good. But, of course, if we go to the results, it turns out that, of 888 kilometers of rivers we have in the Autonomous Community, it turns out that good state only have 90 kilometers. Because between there is a percentage that is not evaluated, and 77% that does not achieve these parameters, joining all the indicators, it turns out that we have only 10% of our rivers have a good state, when 100% would have to have that state by 2015. Then, to finish, a door opens here, and a interesting door appears to us to open. But it is true that, in the past few days, we have been revolving with the motion, that we have tried to penetrate a great many things, and that now, with the help of technicians, we have to sort out all the points that we have grafted in this motion a little, and give them some technical consistency. It seems to me, from now on, that there's still a lot of work left, but, in any case, very necessary and interesting work. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together represent the Podemos team, Mr. Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u26	Good morning, everyone. Before I turn to the subject of the motion put forward by the People's Party, I would like to make a brief introductory, perhaps pedagogical, comment on the importance of the rivers. Because there is no doubt that the rivers are the source and the livelihood of the life of a territory; they not only provide us with fresh water, but also provide refuge for living beings, and they are the place of leisure and leisure that we human beings use, especially in a territory like Euskadi, where the valleys are so narrow and demand to make a life around those rivers. In Araba this importance of the rivers is even greater, and, in fact, the Zadorra river vertebrates the territory from east to west and from north to south. And yet, Euskadi has lived for decades behind its rivers, partly because of ignorance of its importance and partly because I believe that there is a perception that we are going to have enough fresh water indefinitely. And this seems to be that, unfortunately, with climate change is not so true. However, for decades in Euskadi it has been built on the canals, dams and canals have been built that hindered the movement of fauna, we have collected water for irrigation without respecting the minimum flows, and – which is most important and what brings us here today – we have poured all our dirty waters, both urban and economic activities, into those rivers' canals. In the 1980s and 1990s this situation began to straighten out, the first scrubbers began to be built, but we find that now, in the middle of the 21st century, this situation is stalled. On par, in part because investments in hydraulic infrastructure have fallen in half in recent years, in principle because of the crisis, but I would say that also because of the lack of political momentum, because in the end it is the political momentum that makes money go to some investments or others. And then I'll talk about it. The environment has suffered these consequences from the crisis, from budget cuts, and it is the water sanitation infrastructure that has suffered the most from these cuts. It has also influenced, why not say, the competitive dispersion that we have in this country: we have the hydrographic confederations dependent on the central government, we have URA, we have the deputies, we have the municipalities, and in Araba we also have the councils. So many institutions thinking that they have budgetary difficulties, and who is going to save the money, cause "one by one the house without sweeping", and no one to face those investments. How has this setback materialized today? First, where we have unbuilt collectors and scrubbers, and here in Araba, the High Nervousness and the Ayala area are the paradigm of this situation. We also have depurators that do not work, and there we have the depurator of Salvatierra-Agurain, which during this summer has shown us that not only does not work, but that it is also one of the main causes of contamination of the river Zadorra in that area. We have insufficient control of discharge points, and, as Mr Otero has said, we have recently encountered that at the discharge point of the Crispijana treatment plant we have found that there is lindane discharge from the Gardelegi landfill, which was unknown until now, or until a few years ago. We also have dry channels for excessive catchments for irrigation, and the Inglares River has shown them to us periodically since this spring. And we also have discharges that are neither investigated nor sanctioned. And to this day in URA there is only one person for the processing of the sanctioning files. What are the consequences of all this? Well, as our predecessors have already said: poor or poor quality in many sections of our rivers, and severe point discharges that end up with the fauna that still survives. The Zadorra River is possibly the paradigmatic example of this situation. Waters above the capital we have that in the stretch between Agurain and the swamp of Ullibarri-Gamboa the quality is bad, and we must take into account that that stretch is the one that supplies the water reserves for half of the Basque population. Half of the Basque population is subjected to a river with poor chemical quality. Waters below the capital we have the section between Crispijana and Zambrana, which brings the water of irrigation from most of the agricultural farms of this territory of Araba. Poor irrigation water implies a lower quality of the crops. And it's vox populi, it's vox populi already, and ecological organizations say, that some farmers in Álava are being stopped from buying crops because of the poor quality of irrigation water. In short, we have that poor water quality is not only a problem for fish, but it is a problem for people's health and for the country's economy. And for the country's economy. And this is important enough for us to take action. What solutions are there? Well, there are several and they are obvious, and I think they have been sufficiently reflected in the compromise motion that will be approved today. On the one hand, more budgets are needed to finish the collectors and debuggers that today are unbuilt. On the other hand, it is necessary to control that the debuggers that we already have work and that work well, and we have to control them continuously, and if they do not work well we will have to invest to improve those debuggers. We will have to improve water quality control in general; we will have to be able to find those dangerous substances that were not being measured so far and whose presence in the rivers is worrying from every point of view. And finally, we will have to investigate once and for all the discharges: we will have to look for their origins, for their responsible ones, we will have to apply administrative sanctions and impose penalties when appropriate. And nothing is yet being done about it. In conclusion, our group welcomes the agreement reached. We congratulate not only the groups that have reached that agreement, but – and here I will join Mrs López de Ocariz – the role played by the Deputy Environment Adviser in this matter, as in some others, with a good predisposition and a commendable attitude so that we can reach this agreement. We encourage not only the vice-counsel and the councillor, but the entire government, to be able to perceive in the 2018 budgets that investments in the environment are not spent, they are investment. They are investment in more and better drinking water, they are investment in more and better irrigation water and, therefore, in better crops. In short, taking into account that protecting the environment is to invest, on the one hand, in quality of life, and, on the other hand, in greater social prosperity. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u28	Thank you, President. And good morning to everyone and everyone. Indeed, the subject that Mrs López de Ocariz brings to us today is a matter of concern and which I believe concerns the Basque institutions, in which the subject of competences I believe is the place in which we should all reach, to ask each institution what it has to do. We understand, of course, that URA is the one that guarantees the quality of the water bodies; the councils (in the case of Álava) and the municipalities are responsible for the supply and sanitation networks in accordance with Law 7/1985 of 2 April, regulator of the Local Regime Bases, and it is set up as a minimum service of compulsory provision, and on the other hand we have the deputies, who have much to say on this issue – as we all recognize – and do not really have direct competence, beyond aid to the councils and municipalities. We understood that, after reading and studying the initiative put forward by Mrs López de Ocariz, and having received these proposals for amendments to the whole of the opposition groups, it seemed to us that the difficulty came when it came to being able to separate the competences that each of the institutions has. The amendment that we have succeeded in signing three parliamentary groups believe that it solves this issue, and that even with the contributions made by the EH Bildu group, there are specific issues that the Government makes as commitments to be made on the basis of the approach of this initiative. This means that neither URA nor the Member of Parliament are competent to carry out any analysis of the situation of waste water treatment facilities and infrastructures, and we thought that when we put forward the amendments, even when we put forward the initiative that Mrs López de Ocariz brings us, it was a little..., well, it was not really understood, or perhaps it had to be drafted in another way in order for each of the institutions to see reflected in this text what their competences are. Therefore – I am not going to extend much more, since we share the purpose of the initiative – we understand that the quality of water has to be a concern and an occupation of the Basque institutions, since more and more concerns and demands of the primary sector come to the institutions, which in the end are sometimes the ones that draw our attention to these issues. We defend the fact that each institution assumes its responsibilities, and it is not always asked the Basque Government to assume something that it really cannot do, understanding that URA has an important role, since, once the Basque Water Agency is established, after the approval of the Water Act of the Basque Country, it is clear what it has to do. And, of course, we recognize the importance of the Euskadi Department of Environment in this matter, since in the end it is the umbrella from which everything else is solved. We recognize that this is an important agreement. It seems that the vote on this item will be unanimous. We also recognize that parliamentary groups echo those demands that sometimes come from all the institutions, and that this time, thanks to what EH Bildu provided, concrete proposals will be approved that the Government, as has already been said – although we are not used to the work of the Basque Government, in this case the Vice-Environmental Councillor – will do. And we encourage the parliamentary groups to be able, in matters that concern us all, and in which we share the concern of the general philosophy of the original initiative, to make unanimity lead us to that, unanimity, and not to seek problems where there are only agreements. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u29	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u30	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Congressmen, good morning. The truth is that today I have had the temptation to bring a small graph in DIN A3 to show the evolution of the waters in recent years, to counteract a little the somewhat catastrophic scenario that has described above all Mr Becerra today, right? As I have no graph, I will try to describe the general evolution of water quality with two data given by the same advisor in the inquiry that gives rise to this motion. And he talks about the two studies that are made about this quality, which are the study of chemical conditions and the study of the ecological state. On chemical conditions, almost 70% of the waters analysed show a good or very good state, and, as for the ecological state, in eight years they have increased from 30% to 52% those that are good. Only 16% are in a situation of serious deterioration. There will be those who turn to this data and stress that in 48 % of the waters in Euskadi its ecological state – which is where we get the worst note – is in a not so good state. And I believe that no one has denied today that there is room for improvement in the DMA's compliance, right? But it is no less true that the starting point that our rivers had was a disaster many years ago, due to the pollution of heavy industry, non-existent purification networks and an artificialization of the rivers' channels very high, among other things by our orography, and also because, well, people generally, when there is a lot of mountains, go to the channels and to the environments of the rivers' channels. And another factor is that fifty or forty years ago there was no ecological awareness. This bad starting situation has a decisive influence on one of the parameters analyzed, so I'm going to stop to analyze with some detail the data that we all have at hand on the URA website, which is, by the way, a protagonist, in the recognition that URA has had and its level of transparency in recent years through several awards, right? By grossly degreasing the data provided by the studies of the chemical and biological state of the rivers we can come to two conclusions. The first is that the biological state gets the worst rating, because of the conditions I've mentioned before. And the second would be that the chemical quality of water improves ostensibly over the last few years steadily, as a result of the improvement of sanitation and purification networks, and also as a result of greater control over illegal discharges. Mrs López de Ocariz has brought Álava's particular case to the debate, and I think it is also quite clear that the two main challenges of water policy in Euskadi today go through Álava, the depurator of Agurain and the purification of the High Nervion. This need is reflected in the fact that the low ecological potential rating section of the biological study shows that the percentage of water bodies belonging to the section is 12 % in Bizkaia, 8 % in Gipuzkoa and 25 % in Álava, and this is also a fact that is there. To this day these are the two main priorities that the Government has and that our country has, I would say that by adding, and that is why we have wanted them to be explicitly present also in the finally agreed text and that it will come out unanimously today. After this little diagnosis, what I'd like to do is put the deal we've made into value. I will not shorten it again; I will not read it, because it was already done. Put it in value because we directly break the government, although the main lines that the text refers to are already in its primary guidelines. The policy and the policy which occur in several reports and documents contribute to a plan which is favorable to the prosecution of this legislature, because the measures are placed one after the other, and the calendar is placed next to it. In the fourth place, we ask the Environmental Department, in this examination of water which has been made every year since 26 years ago, to include several additional information in it, such as the hidromophological indicators which are not examined at the present day, or to receive the exact information of the fines that are placed about them. And at the last point, we're trying to give importance to the narrow interaction between the prosecutor and the Border and the government. Last year, when you're up to 48 grand, it looks like this year, fines have shown an increasing tendency, so we're on our way to that, too. I would also like to stress that the management of the water cycle implies, as mentioned above, at all competitive levels in our country. It is possibly public policy where the greatest number of institutions coincide. I will not repeat the actors, starting with the councils and ending with the European Union. Nor do I think of a reality that better reflects the practices that our entire society has committed in the past. I would say that the only way to get rid of the pollution of the past is to offer a framework of solutions, and in this sense, what has been done today is a small step forward, to agree and to explain the measures, which were already in the mind and at the government table. I'd like to thank you for the intervention of the rest of the party I don't know how to say balanced, but at least in a good tone... Of the reflections which have been made, Mr. Otero, and Mr. Becerra, have also mentioned the litnda's case. I must mention that I've come on the alert, and you, Mr. Becerra... At the committee, two or three weeks ago, the Echologists were talking about the litany and, well, Mr. Becerra uttered a few words which were well spoken, and I translated.... I'm sorry. He said in a word... They were walking around the earth, but well, the litany's bigger politics, isn't it? He said literally: "In the sphere of abolishing the legend, I would like to praise the work which has been done outside the government, and outside the government, about the problem of the language and litnda. 25 years ago, Euchardi had been a pioneer against the contagion of the country, and there was a precise plan, a political leader who declared that he was not at present, but he was in possession of his property. So hubaba, welli, there he is... Thank you, Mr. Becerra, for speaking frankly and, well, we all signed the text today, and we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Not Carmen, Mr. Becerra... Oh, yeah. Otero... Well, then you first, Becerra, from there... The Social Party doesn't have to speak. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u32	Yes, just to answer Mr. Barrow. And, yes, I said those words and you translated them well. That's where it's been mentioned 25 years ago, 25 years ago. and now we have a pause, which I have mentioned in my speech. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Otero, yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u34	Yes, thank you. I shouldn't have participated, but, well, to make a couple points. At bottom, sir, that's what you're capable of turning a review into a flower, because 25 years ago it's not easy for you to clap your hands to-day. I wanted to give you another score, maybe I'm a little technical, but, well, I think about what you said to me, not a question of doing it. Of course, you said that the situation of the water-mass had improved or improved, and I would say about it: On the one hand, we must be careful, because, as the URA agency himself admits, the best data in the past five years had been in 2013 years, and by chance the rain had been more direct that year. Then, of course, if the best year in a series is connected with many rains, that means that the problems are not completely solved and, worse, we do the blind man's. I mean, of course, if it rains more easily, the polluter carries them more easily, but at last we send them to the sea, so that the problem, in fact, hasn't been solved. And then I said in my first Intervention, of course, that the global state of the water masses is not good, and I think we should go to Europe, O, to the right side of the water range, because that requires the state of the water to be evaluated. And, of course, to examine the global state of the water-mass here are two parameters: one is chemical, the other is ecological. But within the ecological process, the physicalkimic analysis penetrates, introduces the biological analysis, and enters the Hydromorphological analysis. Of course, we're not doing hidromophological analysis today, so we should say that we don't really know the situation of our pools, or at least we don't know the global situation. It is true, therefore, that the pretty things of our time have nothing to do with the prettyties of 40 years ago, but it is true that the absences are still very obvious and there are a great many to be done. That's why, when I go up to URA's work, I'd put a few hooks in it, not because the workers don't do their jobs well, it's obvious they're doing it well, but because they still have a lot of resources and have more to do with URA. And that's what we think is urgent... I think we could agree with that. And now I've got up and taken advantage of us all here, and to tell you, because I don't remember the first shot, but I think it's important to say that Zador's been organized by platforms such as living, because in the last few months they've made a lot of strength, and I think they've finally got something important, and it's the problems of water, the trouble of getting one of carrying and placing one of them on the books, and that's still helping to reflect on the political agenda. So I think that this volunteer's about to mention and that what they're asking is generally fair, even though afterwards there may be a collision with URA or political parties or whether there's a question. But, well, I haven't said it before, and now I mean it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Is he going to take the word? Yeah. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u36	Yeah, right away, for answer. Well, it's true that the litany was over 25 years ago, and I'd like to think, Mr. Becerra, that you or those who were in the government did a decent job, and so, in a great measure, that the whole thing was pretty neat too. And secondly, you mentioned the story of the rain. It's true that the rain has a very strict relationship in chemical investigations, but evolution is positive in years, and though 2015 was that rainy year, even before the Epilo or 2014, I don't know, I don't remember. it's an evolution that comes and maintains itself. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH Collect, the middle-term correction signed by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters, 69; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u38	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Ibaña Kortaja, the member of the EH Collectors, concerning the pitiful state of unemployment in the EAE. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Madame Kortja's, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u39	Good morning, Congressmen. We have now brought into discussion a motion which has been introduced in accordance with an interpelation made to the chief of the department of Artolally; namely, that of the deplorable degree of coverage which the labourless euscals receive from the state. It's gross selfish. Langabez datuak ez will say onak gurean. Azken datuek euskal lan-merkatuaren balaztadaz hitz egiten dute. Bi urte éta erdiko beherakadako tendentzia hautesi éta 11.5era igo da langabezia gurean, azken hiru hilabetean. More than worrying data, because in the last quarter half of the employment created in 2017 has been destroyed, and let's hope, we believe it can be data that are short-term. But we are facing a bad scenario, which worsens if we take into account that youth unemployment continues to rise, that households with all its unemployed members increase, and that those with all its busy people decrease. We have not been able to find answers to the situation of the long-term unemployed. The situation of unemployed women, more than 132,000 persons, is a matter of concern. 132,000 included bathing gehiago bizi-esperentizia gogor batan, 132,000 gizon eta emakume beren bizitza-proiektuak aurrera erasateko zailtasunekin eta honi guztiari weretzuteko zailtasun nabarmenak dituen enplegu-zerbitzu bat. Uste dut denon kezka pizteko moduko arazo beat aurrean gaudela, because this is one of these topics of eating or not being able to eat, that worry our group, and much. It is clear that things are not working as they should, that employment policies are not right, and that, in view of the current socio-economic reality, the usual recipes are no longer valid. But this reality is also cruel if we respond to the response that these people receive from the State: according to data published by Lanbide in July, about 71% of the unemployed do not receive any kind of unemployment benefit. Other data put the figure around 60%. In any case, they are, of course, scandalous data, which clearly reflect the failure of the State's public policies in this area. A figure and a situation that deteriorates – and I explained it the previous time – to forced marches. The protection of the unemployed is seriously deteriorating in the Spanish State in recent years, because the number of recipients of benefits is much lower than that of the unemployed, which leads to an unbearable increase in the number of people without employment and protection. At the same time, the quality of the benefit is reduced, because the contribution benefits in favour of the care workers are losing weight, with a significant reduction in the amount of expenditure per beneficiary, because the amount of these contributions is also reduced. And this situation particularly affects women, who are less protected and less protected. All of this is leading to an accelerated fall in unemployment expenditure in recent months, which demonstrates the harshness of the 2012 reform protection system, and this affects us significantly. "Estomos, pues, ante pollicas exigias y totalmente inadecuadas para mpulsa portentidades de acceso a empleo a persones desempleadas." If anything had been made clear in the discussion with the chief physician, it was precisely this, that the attention of the State to these men and women is very little and very inadequate. As it is essential to the development of any people, and the projects of men's lives, disorder is at this moment at hand in the midst of public employment and protection. In this social condition, the limits between active and passive politics are more and more vague. Sometimes some programs are performed, and we don't know exactly where they are located, whether they are active and passive; at this moment, when unemployment is chronic, the conditions of unemployment are hardened and skewed to a quadantity. When the phenomenon of long unemployment is greater and greater, the formulas that come to our answer are short of duration, and, moreover, as they are now placed, they may be removed. And we may say that the refugee system of Spain has more of the existence and charity than of the true protection. A total wilderness and a defeat of size, as well as employment and pretty protection, and our hands tied in this chaos, we were short of hand. Even when the bridge is updated of the report, it becomes clear that, for the development of modern jobs, there is a lack of consistency, as is reported, of want of jurisdiction, or lack of congruence. For this is disorder and defeat, which directly affects us, because passive policies for employment depend on Madrid, but many active policies which we make here depend upon, and certain decisions in Madrid are conditioned by the decisions which are contained in those passive policies. And that's an example of the tariff or whatever it is that prepara Program, management of the incentives given to corporations, or compressions, isn't it? We have had to undergo this want of hands, and the disorder of the beauties of the state over the decades, and especially in the general crisis of recent years, in Spain, the laws and restrictive policies which have been introduced into our minds to cover the social collapse of the government. Pattern is perverse: It reduces the options of work, facilitates the expressions, and also lowers the protection and bends them. Mahai haenean ditugun datuak ikusita, egoeraren fatdintasuna ikusita, norbaiek defends ditzake horrelako politicak? Milaka pertsonaren bizitza-proiektuak no you say ikusten could not behar dugu? Izan daiteke model ankerragorik? Are we really going to allow policies to set aside thousands and thousands of people? Can things be done worse in this matter? Of course it seems difficult, but it is already known that Spain never disappoints and everything is possible. And in the midst of this chaos, thousands of eucalyptuses were unemployed. Thousands. And without our jurisdiction, our hands tied, waiting for others to do, and covering holes if we can. These state policies are neglected by a great number of men and women here, and as a country, it is a great failure, as I said before. And of course we have responsibility to protect them. And fortunately, as a matter of fact, I don't have any trouble telling you that it's lucky for us to say that it's just a town that we didn't mind that responsibility. We have invented a tendency to these improper policys of state, to jurisdictions, and there are many men and women in that state, who find their poor condition in a better condition by means of the revenues of the revenues of the revenue. But we know that the band doesn't look for more. He has to cover so many holes that at the moment, 700,000 families and people are out of that coverage. And according to the data given by the head section, 25% of those unprotected jobs still run out of coverage. What do we do? Are we going to stand so blind and dumb in front of such a failure? Are we blind to the nicest that harms our unemployed? Shall we continue to put the Tiritas on? Ladies and gentlemen, this pattern has made its own. This pattern is exhausted, and it's not going anywhere. Jobic data concerns, and the results of the programs, projects, and strategics are not good either in Madrid or here. Madrid's done a lot of worse management and destroyed people's vital conditions by this management, and we can't continue to get involved in the chaos of Madrid. It's not acceptable anymore. It is therefore necessary and necessary to set up new and effective preparations before these circumstances. A class heightas, y con estos datos y statuses enim de la mesa, aqé unemplificiater unas pollicas de impendivivas, que no protementas, que no protegen a las, que no reponden as las neces de las las semémples quem adem adem, as las deción? Es inaceptable. "Stamos hablando del bienestar y de la dignd de la la la la la las personas." The usual recipes are worthless. The time has come for re-infining the margins and refining of our employment and protection; it is time to seek consistencys and balances; as to work and protection, it is time to promote proper, significant, and decisive policies; it is time for the development of persons to make politics, promotion, and support in a balanced manner. It is time for us to reply in a proper and decent manner to our romances as a people, to promote the employment of a quality which is the chief concern of our society, that we need it to have the full power to develop the congruent, coherent, and consistent influence of public affairs, our socienomical reality, our problems, and roots, in order to respond to proper answers. Because we care about these things about eating, we can't be waiting for what comes from Madrid. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you can't keep promises with a rachitic state. I'm not saying it, unfortunately; Pepe Mujica said it, but it's a great truth. How is this government going to address its commitments, how are we going to address this challenge as a country, how are we going to address the protection commitment we have with these people, if we do not have full capacity to develop coherent public policies? This is why today we have arranged a deal on this subject, a vast deal of agreement, I think, because the subject is very clear to us. By this agreement, the legislature reports that the labourers suffer from the state, and considers it necessary to increase the degree of protection and quantity of readiness and subsidies, and also that the Esucanian Autonomia of Euscadicus is acting as the agent for work, and the active business policy of the State, requires the government of the State strictly to transfer passive politicians to the government of employment. This, we believe, will allow a proper business policy, and a more consistent and consistent attention to public employments, in order to answer the affairs and hinges of the Basque society. I think, in the presence of the gravity of the situation, that we have made a good arrangement among us all, and I would thank them for having allowed each one his shades and his views on one side, for having made him a concession and enabled him to make a treaty. So, everybody, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. This is the turn of the teams who have advanced the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u41	Yes, good morning. Well, our group, our coalition, our parliamentary group, as Mrs Kortajarena has said, we have decided to sign the compromise of the motion before us, basically because we agree with the three elements that we believe it finally collects. But it is also true that we would have liked to have introduced another set of elements, because we believe that when we talked about such an important issue, about passive employment policies, and in particular about the situation of the coverage that unemployed people currently have, it seemed to us important that this Parliament should also point out a number of issues. In any case, I would like to value the agreement, and three basic elements. One, we agree, let us say, with the second point, the transfer of passive employment policies, although it is true that we want to point out that for us the transfer of passive employment policies will not in itself allow us to be able to improve that serious situation that Mrs Kortajarena has described for the unemployed, but depends on how it is done. It is not so much where, but how, but, indeed, we agree that these passive employment policies should be transferred. Of the other two elements, one would be the criticism of the situation of unemployment protection and other protections of our social system that workers have, because, in fact, we share the analysis that the situation is bad or very bad, and that especially the unemployed at this time do not have sufficient and necessary coverage as they should. And a third element, which was also to add a little bit in which direction we think, thinks this Parliament... Because we thought it was important not only to keep saying that the situation is bad, that protection is bad, but to say at least a number of things about how we want it to improve. And indeed – and we agree with the groups and so it has been signed – the rates of unemployment protection must be improved and the amounts finally received by the unemployed must be improved. All of this is reflected in the compromise, and we have therefore signed it and will logically vote in favour of it. But it is true that we thought that there were a number of elements that should be pointed out. I am not going to refer to data, because we have already explained the serious situation in which the unemployed are found throughout the State, also here in Euskadi. We're talking low, very low coverage rates. We are talking about average amounts of unemployment benefits and also unemployment benefits that are very low. The average amount has been falling in the last historical period, and in the case of unemployment benefits the truth is that the figure, the famous four hundred and twenty euros, is a figure that is laughable, and that in the case of Euskadi also produces an element that is at least curious, the fact that there are people who actually, instead of going to collect the unemployment benefit or the unemployment benefit, are going to receive another type of aid that is not intended for that purpose. And, therefore, this seems to us to be serious and critical. That is why we thought it was important to highlight these issues. But we did want to introduce... We knew that this element that I am going to describe now was the most complicated one to introduce, and therefore logically we left it in the trap, but for us it is important that when we talk about these issues we point out a number of concepts that are at the origin of why we are in this situation. And for us there is one that is in the center and in the origin, which is the ideological question. We do not think that the protection system we have is failed because things are being done wrong; we think it is failed because things are being done this way. We believe that the degradation of the system of protection for unemployment that we currently have responds to concrete policies with specific objectives, which are inflated by certain bodies of an ideological nature, of a marked neoliberal ideological character (in this case I will refer to this). Among other things, I will quote the International Monetary Fund, the banking and the employers, who usually tell us or usually throw probe balloons before the reforms, in what way they want them to be done. And, therefore, we believe that the serious situation of unemployment coverage and the serious situation in which we are in passive employment policies responds to specific objectives and specific intention. This is not just about mistakes; it is about those policies that are intended to be implemented, and it has been shown by different governments throughout the State, in particular by the governments of the People's Party. And we think this because we think that, with unemployment protection, deliberately degrading it has a specific objective, and it is the objective that, in the face of poor unemployment coverage, we workers have to accept jobs – let me put it this way – of shit, that is, precarious jobs. Because when you're on the line of a poor unemployment benefit or precarious employment, we finally choose precarious employment. And this is the goal of a system that some people actually conceive of as a caregiver, and that is not and should not be. We therefore believe that passive employment policies, wherever they are made, have to be different and have to be opposed. There must be good coverage for the unemployed and the unemployed, not from an assistance point of view, not only for them to live better, but also for this to force the market to change policies as well. A good protection for the unemployed allows us not to accept any kind of work or the first job that they offer us even if it is not the right one, and therefore this would have a direct consequence: that the entrepreneurs had to offer better jobs, better working conditions, because they would be interested in us going to the jobs. Therefore, where these passive employment policies are made (I say we agree that they are transferred), what we think is important is how they are done and what their objectives are. And, in our view, they should be contrary to what is now being done. The concrete material causes that have led us to this situation that we have described already know them: low wages; the labour reform that has impoverished the labour market, the working conditions and, therefore, the contributions that we finally make, and the direct cuts in the benefits themselves. The most notable is the last one: the drop from 60 % to 50 % of the contribution base that is charged from the seventh month is a drop of ten points that is brutal. For a worker who passes to collect half of the contribution base of what he worked, especially if it is a family where that is the only income that there is, it is a very, very serious drop. What we wanted to point out also, finally, is that we did not want our criticism of the situation of the system and the intentionality that, as I said, is behind it, with a criticism of the system itself. For us, a system of protection of interterritorial solidarity is good; for us it is good that there is a niche to which workers and companies, thanks to the work done by workers, can contribute, and fatten a niche that serves to protect the unemployment situations of workers. Our criticism is how this protection system is being carried out, not the fact that this protection system exists. And we wanted to make that clear, because it seems to us too that having protection systems of this type is very important. But we have to do it right, we have to do it justly, and we have to do it with concrete objectives, which, in our opinion, are that the workers have very good unemployment coverage, much better than the one they have now, so that, as I said, they do not see themselves in this thesis of accepting any kind of work and, therefore, help to keep the labour market precarious. We also raised in the original amendment a number of questions about complements that could be made from the Autonomous Community, especially in the sense of not covering holes in what we believe the social protection system has to do, but rather of correcting certain differences that may exist throughout the State, between communities, in terms of the need for life. In this sense, we find it interesting that these formulas can also be sought. And we find it interesting, and finally it has been included in some way in asking that the coverage rates and their amounts be improved, that this Parliament should clearly position itself on what needs to be done on this issue, beyond just transferring it. It seems important to us, because reality is concrete, as Lenin would say, and the concrete reality of the unemployed at this time, and as we resolve the question of transfer, is that their conditions and protection are very bad. And we therefore believe that it is good that this Parliament should also send messages that these policies need to be changed and that they need to be corrected. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u43	Yes, thank you, President. My group agrees that the existing system of unemployment protection is insufficient and limited and increases the vulnerability of those affected, and the amount of the benefit has also been reduced since 2012. And this situation is mainly punishing women, young people and those over the age of forty-five, for being the most punished groups today with short-term jobs, part-time contracts, which often prevent enough to be able to access even to receive the benefit. That is why our position will not be a mere denunciation, but a claim also for the instrument that allows us to strengthen social inclusion policies. And the Socialists believe that the best way is to develop the Statute. For two years now, under the mandate of Patxi López, we have had active employment policies and liabilities under the terms of the Act, which is the Statute, would allow us to improve these inclusive tools. That's what we're defending today. In an analysis carried out by Lanbide, we know that of the total number of unemployed, 28.9% of them are receiving some unemployment benefit or benefit, which means that 71% do not receive any benefit from the State. In addition, the percentage of people unemployed in the Basque Country without any coverage accounts for 24.81 % of the total number of people unemployed. But this initiative focuses only on the level of coverage of the benefit and allowance for the unemployed, and that, in our view, is to bias the situation a little bit. Benefit and subsidy which are also the competence of the Spanish State today, but which must be improved (of course, we agree, without any doubt), because the reforms that have taken place from 2012 to this date have worsened them. And it is biased because that does not mean that these people are totally unprotected within our system, because the Basque system of protection intervenes to alleviate this situation, because it manages to reach this population that is at greater risk: 96.6% of income-guarantee income expenditure, supplementary housing benefit and social emergency aid reach this group. That is why we must have public tools that can alleviate this situation, and we in Euskadi have a system of income guarantee for the best in the Spanish state. This system has made it possible to alleviate and reduce the increase in poverty generated in recent years as a result of the crisis, a labour reform that has made it possible to reduce wages, and the increase in temporaryity and partiality in contracts, among other reasons. Without that tool, the level of poverty would, of course, be much higher. It also facilitates social cohesion. This system was designed to address the shortcomings of the labour and housing market precisely, and is fulfilling its role. However, we want to modify our system to improve it. We're on it now. However, the Basque system of protection focuses on a twofold right: on the one hand, economic aid, and on the other, social inclusion through active employment policies. This must continue to be the case, in order to ensure that people do not cronify themselves in this situation and have access to the labour market as soon as possible. The Government is therefore not only implementing active employment policy programmes, but also providing income security for those who meet the requirements for it, and providing additional housing to meet the needs of Basque families, as well as social emergency assistance. That is why the level of social coverage for those seeking employment is higher in Euskadi than in other communities, but we must continue to improve, because there are still many people living in very complex and difficult situations. The Government claims in the Zubia report, recently referred to Parliament, among the outstanding transfers, the management of the economic system of unemployment benefit, and this management of the economic protection system against unemployment includes all the specific unemployment benefits, both at the contributory and the assistance level, which includes specific benefits and allowances. In Euskadi it has already been carried out since 2012, although it was implemented by the Royal Decree of 5 November 2010, the functions of labour brokering and management of active employment policies, so the transfer of the management of the system of economic protection against unemployment (i.e. what we call passive policies) would certainly improve the coordination between the functions currently performed by both the Autonomous Government and the State, and would allow for a policy of employment and attention to the public employment service with a higher dose of congruence. And this must be added to the active employment policies, which, as I said, are an essential tool to increase the employment option of people who are more difficult to access. That is why, in the compromise amendment that we signed today, we call on the Government of the State to transfer passive employment policies. And, of course, I thank the rest of the parliamentary groups (the EH Bildu group, the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the Basque Nationalist group) for having succeeded in signing this compromise amendment today, having made an important effort on the part of the different groups to reach the final agreement on the final text. We initially asked for something more in our amendment as a whole. The amendment that we tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group also included, since it is part of the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, we proposed to take over the management of the economic system of social security, because we considered it important to put it here. We have already presented this request at the plenary session on 16 March, before another initiative (a non-law proposal by the EH Bildu group on the measures to be taken by the Government to complete and dignify the lowest pensions). In that plenary it could not be adopted, neither this amendment nor any other amendment was adopted in that plenary; therefore we thought it appropriate to be able to put it here. But in order to seek consensus, which was the most important thing, we must all, in the end, leave something of what we first proposed, and we felt that the most important thing, of course, was to seek that maximum consensus, and I believe that we have achieved it. Therefore, all these measures that are taken as a whole within this compromise amendment, signed, I repeat, by the Basque Nationalist Group, Basque Socialists, the EH Bildu Group and Elkarrekin Podemos, as a whole, can be beneficial in the employment policies of our autonomous community, and therefore I believe it is a good agreement. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u44	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u45	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. The chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days, or good noon. We have a discussion of the unfortunate state of disaffection for the unemployed of the Basque Autonomia of Erria, which has been introduced by the Collectors. As the Chief Artolal Department has said on interpelation day, we are essentially agreed to what the proposed team says. We have agreed with the criticisms made in the absence of the state, as well as with those you have driven here by the representatives of other groups. We share when you say that the coverage of the state to the unemployed are very little, Mrs. Koruntha, and you, Mr. Hernandez, have mentioned it. On the other hand, we would like to see in your wall some mention of the euscal protection system, though small. I know you've often said so often, even to-day, that we have a potential diametric system here, and that you don't have a problem with it, but today, in the primary text and in the interpelation day, we thought it was a little short of references, and so at least we wanted to discuss it. Sharing that state coverage for the unemployed is very low, I think it is fair to recognize that the situation of this group in Euskadi is less bad, or better, because precisely because the law protects these people, completing and granting aid when the state is exhausted. Because in Euskadi we are clear that we cannot leave anyone behind, that to be an advanced and developed country we must make an effort, and obtain minimums that allow all people to live with dignity. Hence, the conditions of life and people, the custody of these conditions, the centre of public politics, are your huddles, the lady of Kothaen... The Government of the President of the Urkullu, which is the centre of public politics, takes place from the first day. You say that this member of the Renaissance has no opportunity of producing it, and you have done so to-day: and that it is not enough to promote, to promote, and to promote, its own, balanced, and decisive policy. You must admit, although you have no jurisdiction on passive policies, and you've made it easy for you to say that you're helping people who were out of work and people who were in possession of incomes. The Basque Nationalist Party has always defended and worked to get the skills to be transferred, and we will continue to do so, because we are absolutely convinced that when they are managed from Euskadi they exercise infinitely better. In the wire transfer, the RedMork's priority is to get the social security management transfer as soon as possible, because over and over again the chief and president of the San José departments have explained it, and so is also united in the government. This is the content of the third point of our fundamental correction, y no cejaremos en el empeño conseguirla, pero, como ha explicado la señora Sánchez, en aras de consenso mayor, la hemos omitide la en emigida transacional. Eukadin, when they're done preparing for the state, we're renting money to ensure revenues. I repeat, then, that the case is not the same: Euskadin's better, and I'd say much better, even though we still have a lot of better things to improve. Can we do more if we have the transfers? No doubt, that's why we ask, and we won't give up until we get it. The State system of unemployment protection, as explained above, has as its central focus the contributory benefit, with which it seeks to compensate for the loss of wages in unemployment situations. In addition, the State provides subsidies for unemployed persons who do not receive unemployment benefit. In order to be able to provide a more coordinated and coherent response, in order to give more effective coverage to the unemployed in the Basque Country, we call for the transfer of competence from passive employment policies. While we achieve this transfer, and given that the state protection system is limited and insufficient and increases vulnerability, in Euskadi to deal with this situation we have a public tool, such as income guarantee income, which compensates for this deficit at least in part, and which has managed to alleviate the poverty situations generated by the economic crisis and the poor coverage of the unemployed. The Basque protection system is the main social mattress for families today at risk of poverty in Euskadi. This shows the central role of these benefits to channel and target a cohesive social model. As you well know, the Basque system of protection is based on dual law: on the one hand, economic aid, and on the other, labour inclusion through active employment policies. The protection system, in our view, has been effective for what was designed, both to alleviate the shortcomings of the labour market and housing, and for the shortcomings of the pension and unemployment system. For this purpose, income guarantee income was created: to protect this group and to cover the deficiencies that the State did not adequately cover or protect. We arrived at a middle-way, with two points: On the one hand, it is accused that the State does not provide sufficient protection to the labourers, and therefore, using our jurisdictions, and in the sphere of our jurisdictions, by means of the rents, we allow the society to resist this difficult state. And, as Mr. Hernandez has said, we consider it necessary to increase the degree of protection and quantity of preparation for unemployment, and we agree with it, and therefore it was easy enough to reach a middle course. But we believe that no state of state can be confounded. And on the other hand, at the second point, as has been shown, we demand transfer from the state of passive employment policy. It is plain, that if we have a transfer of passive employmental policy, we should otherwise govern the state of the unemployed euscals, as we have hitherto done with all those powers which have been transferred. Meanwhile, in order to face the difficult situation, in the sphere of our jurisdictions, we have used a rent to ensure the income, so that no one should be left in the street. I don't think it's a good deal and I don't think Popular party will accept it, but we hope it will be accepted with great agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Arregi said the deal is good. Man, for the Basque Nationalist Party, which supports the Basque Government, of course, because here it is all about demanding the Madrid Government and demanding competences. Because, Mrs Kortajarena, Mr Hernández, really, if you read the original initiatives, and above all your amendment, and see what has been left in the agreement, the truth is that when you get here many times you don't know whether you are in the Basque Parliament or in the Congress of Deputies. Because the Madrid Government is demanded, which is the easiest, and then nothing is demanded of the Basque Government. I think we will all agree that for an employment policy its main objective must be to improve employment and quality indices in employment. Well, this is the graph of what the People's Party government has done. This is the growth chart of the number of occupied people. This is about doing employment policy. Today we knew that there are 521,700 more employees in the last twelve months in Spain, and that the unemployment rate has fallen by almost one point and has fallen by 182,600 people. However, in Euskadi it has risen by 4,000 people, 3.5 points more than the previous index. Of course, I assume that the positive responsibility for the rise of the working population is not that of the People's Party government, but that unemployment is certainly that, on the other hand, it is the responsibility of the People's Party. And with regard to records, well, the Socialist Party has records in its possession in which... well, then, if not, we will refer. It is true, as the graph said and shows, that we are living in times of economic recovery, although it is true that much remains to be done. It seems, from what has been said here, that unemployment protection in Spain does not exist. First of all, it must be said that it is a competence of the General Administration of the State, being part of the social security system and in accordance with the provisions of article 149.1.17. The basic legislation and the economic regime, as I say, is the competence of the State as a means of preserving the unity and solidarity of the system, which is symbolized in the principle of the single box. And what covers are given? Although Mrs Arregi has outlined it, I will detail them further. First of all, there is the contribution benefit, in fact, which, depending on the contributions that have been accumulated, can be claimed for unemployment benefit. If contributions have not been sufficient, the unemployment benefit may be paid, to which also those who have completed the contribution benefit are entitled. In addition to these subsidies, we can say that there is a subsidy for insufficiency of contribution, family assistance, the subsidy for returned migrants, the allowance for improvement of an invalidity, the agricultural subsidy and the agricultural income, and the subsidy for those released from prison. Finally, there are the special assistance for the unemployed, which can be received when unemployment has been exhausted, including the active income for inclusion, the Preparation Plan and the Special Activation Programme for Employment. In connection with the latter plan, the Plan prepares, on 27 July, the Constitutional Court's decision was known in relation to an appeal brought by the Basque Government, and now becomes the competence of the Autonomous Communities, although, as it is true that in this first exercise it was difficult for the Autonomous Communities to deal with them, a management order has been given to SEPE, which will be responsible for this management until 30 March. At present, unemployment benefits in Euskadi amount to almost EUR 54 million, of which 43 belong to contributory pensions, almost 10 to care-givers, and the rest to dependent children's benefits. Therefore, that insufficient and limited benefit, which could probably go further, but that obviously the economic resources are the ones that are and remained as they remained, and that is why we had to take measures against the deficit not always loved, of course not always popular, but that were necessary to carry the country forward... However, unemployed people do not remain without coverage. It is said here that if we had the skills we would do better. Of course, what the Basque Nationalist Party is silent about is, as it is silent on other competences that are state, that they demand them but that they do not say, if they did, if they developed them here, how they would do them, how much they would have the contributory benefits, how much they would have the unemployment benefits... That's not what they say, that's not what they say. Or, of course, if they say so, then we should see if they apply it. Because, speaking of competences, one of the most demanded competences, and that it was going to be the panacea and that it was going to assume that Euskadi was going to take the lead, were the active employment policies, which at the moment are developed by Lanbide. And really, having us the competition is synonymous with that it has immediately improved that? Well, we have to say no. It seemed that it was going to be immediate, and the Basque Government sets itself a target of labour intermediation rate that does not meet, that does not meet. That's why I'm telling you that you're probably coming down here and saying that unemployment benefits would be... But then we'll have to see if that really happens. Because Lanbide is fulfilling the expectations he raised at the time? Well, no. We now find Lanbide not a useful tool for job search. The Basque Economic and Social Council itself, in its opinion on the Strategic Employment Plan, pointed out that, after six years of Lanbide's creation, the system needs to be improved. And he said that the management of the programmes is very difficult, that the income guarantee income saturates the agency, that the programmes should be different, but they are always the same, despite the fact that the strategic plans are changing. The lack of evaluation of programmes, the lack of evaluation of services linked to such programmes, the lack of services aimed at enterprises, the lack of contact with them, the need to see what their needs are, because this is essential. And, despite the fact that the various employment plans contain this, this is then not being fulfilled (and this is not what I say; it is, as I say, in the Economic and Social Council opinion). He also points out that the strategic plan does not capture it, but that it is essential to improve the intermediation and recruitment of job offers. As I said, Lanbide is not a useful tool for seeking employment; citizens do not trust Lanbide to find employment, they do not believe it can be useful to them. But not the citizens anymore! It's just that the government didn't even trust it itself! We all remember the words of the vice-counselor, who pointed out that his children certainly did not think of going to Lanbide to seek employment ever, ever. And the truth is, as I was telling you, they are absolutely right not to trust Lanbide, because only three out of ten Basques find it through the organism. Therefore, to Lanbide's failure to manage income guarantee income, with news every day, one must add failure as a suitable tool for the search for employment. So, that if the competition were to be exercised here... Let me put you in real doubt. Now, I do have to recognise a competition, Mrs Arregi, and you have managed to get the rest of the opposition to look only at Madrid, and at you not even half-critically, and to free you from a responsibility that this group considers to be yours, which is to make the job search of the Basques effective. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Madame of Kottaja, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u49	Yes, ma'am and the congressman, thank you again. Well, starting at the beginning, Mr Hernández, obviously for us it is important where things are decided. Of course, we have different views in this regard, but we share your concern about how; that is why we commented that we understood that we need to rethink employment and protection policies, both. And now we consider, and I said it in the interpellation, that we have a moment, a very important opportunity in that sense, because we have very powerful discussions open in this sense. The discussion about RGI is open, Lanbide's discussion is coming, employment plans and strategies come, and, well, we think it might be time to think about how, sharing that vision of reconciling coherent policies, to seek those balances between promotion and protection, but always from a rights point of view, that I believe that is an element that you also agree with. And we and we also share that this is not about mistakes, which are intentional policies. That's what we share. And, of course, they are political models that we cannot share. I would say to Mrs Sánchez that, indeed, we have all left many things ahead of us in this agreement, in order to reach agreements, and that it is very important, because we have reached this agreement from very different points of view. For us, the Statute, as you know, is more than exhausted, liquidated, and I would say that the update of the Zubia report also puts us a little in that direction. And, sharing that idea of concrete situations with which Mr Hernández ended, we hope to move towards a new status in which we have full competence in employment and protection, and we do not have to ask anyone for it. That's what we expect. And the system – and this was also said by the counselor – was designed to correct the deficiencies that other systems may have, but I am not clear and I cannot share that it is designed to cover the holes or to cover the wounds that generate harmful policies such as those in Madrid. I don't have a problem with that lady too. I would not trouble myself with confessions from the mouth of the screening system; I have no trouble in that, and I would do it again, and I would write down. I have no problem with that. For you have no such thing in your correction, but good. And I mentioned in interpelation that I like to hear President Urkullu speaking such tune and using words like that, and I said in interpelation too: I was glad to hear a general discussion of politics in such terms. And, of course, in the comparison of the protection systems of state and member, we are champions in this, but it is not difficult. It's not difficult because the comparison between the two is very complete... It's like comparing waves and cows, because some are placed in charity and others in rights, even though we have a way to improve, don't we? Mrs. Llanos, don't worry. We are going to ask the Basque Nationalist Party and its partner, the Socialist Party, to come here and talk about active policies, to talk about Lanbide, to talk about employment strategies... And we will demand them to the fullest, as we have always done. We have also agreed on discussions in this regard which will take place in the coming months. And we will criticize them, because I have already said in my speech, I have started my speech by saying that these active policies are not working here either, and that active policies also need to be reconsidered. I started by saying and mentioning Lanbide. However, for example, in this employment strategy you signed an agreement with the Socialist Party and the PNV which proved to be quite cheap. With which, look at him. And, of course, coming here to take heart from your employment policies... I have already told you what we think of Madrid's employment policies, the neoliberal policies that are leading your project. We aspire to another kind of protection and employment policies, which will develop in the new Basque Republic that we believe is about to arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus, the word... ? Yeah? Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u51	Yes, I would like to point out only three things, because I believe that the position of our group has already been reflected in the previous speech. Man, we do criticise the government in social matters and in social protection matters, but the debate that was brought to this Parliament today was the debate on a matter whose powers at the moment lie with the government of Spain as a whole, and therefore logically we had to refer primarily to that government. And I am surprised that it is to you, and not other groups, that it bothers you that we talk about things in Spain, as part of that state of which we are in this autonomous community. And that is why we have focused our speech on criticizing the model we have. And I have already said that for us it is not a magical solution in itself to the transfer of competences! We agree, we believe it is good to transfer them, but of course no one is going to sell them growlings saying that simply the fact of transferring them will make the situation of the unemployed in Euskadi better. By the simple fact of bringing them in, we don't think so. But what we had to make clear is that the policies that are developing, and especially those that you, the People's Party, have developed, are policies that we do not share and that we are against. And every day we think more that they are not actually mistakes. Everyone's wrong, but it's not a question of mistakes. You have a specific policy that I have described before, with specific objectives, and we would like to develop the opposite policies with regard to the protection of the unemployed. And look at you, Mrs. Llanos... And yes, I am addressing you because of all the things that I've heard that would hurt me the most or pissed me the most is one that you said, which is that you, in some way, have admitted that cuts have been made on this issue, and you said that it was necessary to correct it to correct the deficit. But it is that you always correct that kind of thing at the expense of the same, the workers and the ones below. And you have put the scissors on a question that is necessary for a lot of people who really need it. And in the meantime, while we are looking at other debates, with important things going on these days, as in Catalonia, meanwhile public opinion is not knowing how in a trial it is proving that you have stolen by full hands. Therefore, there is no money for some things, but there is money to take it to our pockets, which is what you do. And, therefore, I am very upset that the argument is that there is a lack of economic resources to develop better economic policies for the protection of the unemployed. It's not a question of lack of money. It is a question of where we want the money we raise, the money of all the workers of the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u53	Andreak : Well, Mrs Llanos, I am with Mr Hernández that, obviously, the transfer of passive employment policies to whom are we going to ask? We are going to ask the Government of Spain, which has to make the transfer. Logically, you can't look anywhere else. If we are asking for a pending transfer, we must look at and ask the person who has the power and power to grant it, which is the Government of Spain according to our autonomous community. You have made reforms that have worsened from 2012 until here the whole situation of the unemployment protection system. And he says, "No, no, you can't transfer..." No, no! I don't agree. Here we have not proposed to alter the existing system of liquidating and collecting the contribution due to the contingency of unemployment developed together with the social security quotas, by the General Treasury of Social Security, referred to in article 21 of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security. We're not talking about that! We are calling for the transfer of passive employment policies, which is another different issue. On the other hand, you have referred – and I also agree with Mr Hernández – to the fact that they have been forced to make those reforms since 2012 and continue to do so until now, because they came from a deficit. Let's see, you had the freedom to take some measures or others. You have been taking a number of measures within the reform, from the 2012 reform to here, which have also meant income reduction, such as measures that allow for wage reductions as never before occurred in Spain. These wage reductions mean reductions in contributions, and therefore reductions in the collection that is ultimately achieved in income. They have also encouraged, in order to reduce unemployment rates, the use of part-time contracts, by modifying and reshaping them, also to give all the possibilities in the world for entrepreneurs to make such contracts. And that also means getting less income. So, you are also responsible for the existence of these lower incomes, because you have adopted a number of policies with which you have managed to raise less in social security contributions. And you also had the power to have decided on some measures or others. You have taken that decision, but do not always blame others for the decisions you make, because you are responsible for the measures and reforms you have made yourself over the past few years. And, simply, by focusing on today's proposal, on the motion tabled today, I believe that the compromise amendment that we have achieved with the effort of all groups, calling for the transfer of passive policies, is good, that is a step forward, and that it can improve the policies that can be carried out from our autonomous community. And, therefore, I'm happy about it. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u54	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arreg.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u55	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, you were calling for passive employment policies to be done better, to be done differently, and we agree on that. That we also share with Mrs Kortajarena that where you exercise is important, and by whom you exercise, we can disagree. And, obviously, transferring that is not the magic wand, it is not the panacea for it to be done better, but of course experience tells us that the transfers that we have been assuming and that we have been exercising are done quite, infinitely better than in the rest of the state. With regard to the People's Party, Mrs Llanos, I must say that if you wanted to urge the Basque Government to do what it wanted it could have tabled an amendment, which you have not done. So it's very easy to then criticize the rest of the groups saying that... The opposition has been criticized by it, saying that, well, that in the end there were no duties for the Basque Government, and instead to us it blames us as a virtue. This was not difficult, because, as others have rightly said, the transfer of passive employment policies must obviously be called upon to do so, which in this case is the Government of the State. Therefore, thanks for the compliment, but it was not difficult in this case. As for the data, you have given here some unemployment data, etc. I think to be fair it should be – and Mrs. Rica said the other day in an appearance we had on the Employment Committee –... , you have to look at the longer-term developments. But what you missed today, you didn't say, is... you didn't mean anything at all about the unemployment rate. Because you know how much it is in Euskadi and how much it is in the state? In Euskadi it is 11.56 %, five points below the state unemployment rate, which reaches 16.38 %. And Euskadi is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest unemployment rate in the state, behind Balearics, Aragon and Nafarroa, where, curiously, in no one governs the People's Party. So good they do everything... because it doesn't look so good. And today's debate did not refer to Lanbide, although lately it is the rascal with which you come to us every day. Whatever happens, Lanbide, Lanbide... It's all fatal, it's all bad in Lanbide. Lanbide, of course, is an improvement, and that is what we are and have been working on throughout the legislature, both from Parliament and from the government. And about the intermediation rate, which is something you focus on (but, I say again, things are looking at an evolution), since Lanbide was created until today the intermediation rate has risen a lot, and it is at the levels of the public employment services of the rest of the state, where they have been operating for a very long time. And also at levels very close to the rest of European public employment services. And almost 40% of people who go to Lanbide to get training or to get information get a job. That's still not the quality we'd like? Well, that's the way it is, too, but they get it. Intermediation can be direct or through companies, etc., but almost 40% of the people who come to Lanbide do so. And don't worry, because you work for us to transfer passive employment policies, and you'll see how well we exercise it, and then we'll talk about how, how much, etc. We are not going to advance events: first the transfer, and then we will see. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u57	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, the truth is that the ambiguity of the Basque Nationalist Party is well known, what happens is that in this case it is justifiable. Sure, first the transfer, and then we'll see, right? Of course, then we'll see, because probably that transfer panacea wouldn't be so. Why did I talk about Lanbide? I told you because you always talk about "Give me the competition; when I have it, it works much better." Well, listen, no, active employment policies, no. Three out of ten, that's the rate you recognize. Man, you're telling me that it can be done directly, indirectly... Man, yeah, and because he was passing by, right? He walks through the door of Lanbide, finds employment in a company ten meters beyond, and will also tell me that it is Lanbide that has managed to broker in the granting of a job. That we do not say it, that the Basques say it and that the Basque entrepreneurs say it, that they go to Lanbide and do not find instruments! That they do not have tools to find employees, that training courses are not the right ones! And, well, that all the competitions... Well, we've also had the Pisa report in education, haven't we? Man, I don't know if it's also to get the chest out of that report. What's going on is, as you all turn around... And he said how we could come here to breastfeed. Look, yes, I say this to you: is this to breastfeed, or is it not to breastfeed, in the situation in which the People's Party government was found, the public arks and the destruction of employment when it arrived at the government? [[Show a paper]] Because you said, Mr Hernandez, that's what upsets you. Well, look, don't direct your annoyance to the People's Party, direct your annoyance to the Socialist Party. Because, Mrs Sánchez, hearing a socialist talk about employment, really, really, if it weren't so serious, it would be to laugh. Because every time you go through the Spanish government in what you are specialists in is destroying jobs. It's about destroying jobs! But do you think Mariano Rajoy's government made cuts because it was what he wanted most? Really? He made cuts because they were like the public arks, because the deficit was what it was, because we stood up every morning looking at the risk premium, that no one knew what the risk premium was until you arrived, and come on, it looked like the family, the risk premium. I mean, really, you evicted the pensions, you evicted the public coffers. Sure, because promising and giving is free, but then you have to pay. Then we have to pay! And you destroyed a job... Come on! I mean, they're champions... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u58	Silence. Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u59	You do have... Pull out, pull out a graph like this from when Mr. Zapatero ruled. Take it out. Get it out! That's right, that's the other way around! That's the other way around! What do you have to invest it! You have to invest it. But what are you telling me about the pensions, if you had to pay... - No, no, no, Twice you've had to go on a loan, how you guys leave... So, hearing you talk about employment, really... I understand that it has been phenomenal for you, because you are now part of the Basque Government, and there is no claim here. Here it is done..., and that the Government of Spain, and the Government of Spain..., and you, then, well, look, as long as we have entertained you asking the Government of Mariano Rajoy, then, we do not demand anything from us. Well, look, I haven't tabled an amendment because I was going to vote no, directly. I was going to vote no, because I do not agree with the transfer of powers. For two reasons. One, because constitutionally it is not possible, because the Constitutional Court has said so. And, two, because the fact that you have the competition is synonymous with the problems being solved, forgive me for doubting it, and I refer myself to the evidence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u60	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote EH Collect, together with the half-correction signed by Podemos, Euskal Sozialists and Euzarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of 60; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u61	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law of Parliament, concerning the development of the Housing Act. Discipline and final resolution. It's your word to present and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u62	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. This is the question of the law of Housing, which is intended to regulate the rights to be worthy and adequate housing, once more. The discussion of several steps in the development of the Housing Law is consistent. In this law there were several important aspects, which were fixed in time for their development. The law receives various works, and will require a 40 by rule of development, but we have tried to show three distinct aspects in this proposition as follows: In the fifth article, all the activities which are connected with the establishments and establishments of public protection are formed as services of general interest, in order to secure the proper and decent housing for all the citizens. In order to set this service in motion, it is established that an autonomous organization should be created, which is intended to assemble at the moment of accepting this law all the public and institutions in the housing. And, further, in the last three regulations, a time is established for the production of this autonomous organization, which is a year's time when this law enters into force. It's been more than two years since the law was approved, that autonomous organization hasn't been created. That's why we wanted to ask you to make a autonomous organization within three months, which will collect all the public and organizations that are in the housing area. We've heard of it over and over again when we questioned directly that the answer received from the same point has gone from the same point of view that it isn't considered necessary to make such a autonomous organization as is now proposed to us to refer to it. In order to reason this, you say that there is a department of substantive housing in its name at the present day, and moreover that it contains two proper departments of office, its respective services, and the Visesa, and the public social society. In this they say there is a clear political direction and an operational integration. I am not going to doubt this, but we will only give two reasons, which properly justify the necessity of this autonomous organism; First, a question which regulates the subjective right of evading an apartment, or raising an economic preparation for the house, is that which is intended to receive it on the project: According to the third transient regulation of this project, the development of the projections, the number, and the properties of the projections of the subjective preparation for the housing as an occupational Eus Empalgu Service, the management of the economic economy for the housing, as well as the application of the housing. We do not think that the organism which will govern the preparation must be a profession. That new autonomous organization that comes in the law should be responsible for all of this management. But how the functions and various preparations which the profession ought to have been managed, the dispute about it lies on the table, and we ought to define what exactly ought to be the function of the profession. And on the other hand, yesterday we learned from the press another matter, which seems to us very important, we shall watch at first reading what remains: they say you are beginning to work in the House of Housing, which will allow the production of the public domains of land, so that the department itself can manage in an integrated manner all its goods and resources, and that all the revenues or benefits which can be obtained can be directed only to the public domestic affairs. Like I said, it's a great idea. But what if the Housing Department manages all this in person? Would the Visesa and the Public Fairies be taken by the hand? I don't know. I find it difficult. It seems to me that the management would be much more effective by this autonomous organism, but, well, we'll see... Time always puts each in its place, and we understand that, as has been shown, the priority of the development of law must be established, and we have here also the legal proposition of law which was taken notice of in the preceding plenae. It is supposed that one of the aims of this law is to force the mechanism of being a more efficient public sector, from which it is possible to arrive at certain consequences. Therefore, in order to find the agreement, we have relaxed our request, not because we have changed our mind, but have reached a middle course, as we have received it at the first point. So we want to ask him to continue on with all the views of the public housing in an integrated and co-ordinated way, to optimize the economic and administrative resources that exist. We've been flexible this time, but we'll see if there's any need to be a warrant later on. A second aspect, which we would like to make out, is the following: Housing 7th of the Law. In the article, the right of being a decent, well-income housing is received that the right to be a decent, well-income housing is to look after it, when the proper measures and measures will be encouraged and taken. At the fourth point, it is determined that the available housing resources will lead to promote the rental housing for the collective members of the worst condition. This priority means that 80% of the housing resources, independent of the means of re-engineing, will be directed from the rental police and the volume of what was built on the public protection rule will not be less than that percentage. Besides, in the fourth regulation, the law decides that this percentage will increase to 100 percent, in the next five years to accept it, and then in the budgets of the next year, all this should be well established, by defining what all the means tend to. Therefore, in order to restore this duty, we presented the second point, which is received in this other proposition, just as we presented it. And, indeed, it seems to me, that in this half-pathetic point, by the last moment proposed and approved punctualization of the law, it is much better contained in what the law demands. At last he stopped: "Gasid Lawduny asks him to do it on Article 7.4 of the Law of Housing, which was made in the last regulation of the 74th, and 80% of the housing resources, free from the means of re-engineing them, and directing them to hire-polies." And here comes improvement: "Let the investments of the new buildings of the future plan what the law receives, that is to say, within five years, at 2020, the resources of the housing area are more than 100 mortgages. Besides, all this may be well received in the budget, and defined for what resources all lead to." It is well known that he was in the department's forecasts, before the end of the year, to be at the execution of 1800 units of protection, and at least 800 rents. This was the proportion to this year: not half a rental. We were informed that the reason of this was that there were already several housing contests which had been designed for sale, and that since the investment of the division is limited, it is not possible to make any other public housing which might be desired. If it were in our hands, we could only be sure that we'd place the priorities in other investments, for instance, when we grew the public housing park for rent, and not by chance make new buildings and other opportunities. But the thing is, this is a request that the Housing Department should be in account for the planning of all resources for 2020 to be able to go to 100-gauge cops. The latter, as we understand, supposes that we must at once put an end to the planning of the housing which is directed to the sale. And since we mention the budget, we'd like to add: It's still too early to build deep ratings, but the budget of the department seems to have been expected to become 205.9 million in the budget. More 13,9 million euros, that is, 7,2% increase that will be the largest increase from all departments. And considering the rise of the entire budget to 3,9%, it must be confessed that a small effort has been made, but it seems to us to be too small, it follows that a very small weight of the entire budget does not reach 1,8%, and the total amount remains too small, considering the need for them. But, as I said, it's still too early for a deeper rating, because we don't know any details yet, but, well, that will come too. Third aspect we want to Highlight: IX of the law. In the chapter of the chapter, the legal guarantees of the proper use of the housing, of the conditions of life, and of the social function, are defined by public application and means of intervention. The other is defined as a record of unpeopled housing records in article 58. This record is indispensable in order to be able to carry on any activity and intervention. It is therefore necessary that you should create them immediately. From time to time you have insisted that this record could not have been established by the Constitutional Court, because it contains several branches of the House of Housing, and that they are suspended among them the very definition of an unpeopled housing, but not of the article 58, of the production of registers, and of the functions which it contains. Besides, the fact that the definition is suspended does not mean it is unlawful. What are we to be, as in many other cases, waiting for court decisions, for years and years without doing anything? Besides, it's legal to make a decision. No, ladies and gentlemen, that shouldn't be so. The government should see how it can avoid this suspense, and as long as it can be solved, instead of doing nothing, get ready. Experience shows us how much work these contrivances are supposed to work, and how long it takes to develop a rule. In three months' time we wanted to ask him to set up a record of unpeopled housing, but we know it's hard and, as we said before, we finally put two points in the middle, the third and the fourth points, picking up the whole story in a way, but he's not as strong as we'd like, but he's... It is important that those who are received at this two points are, especially because it is asked to make this record, and that it is required to employ the means and means of selling empty housing. And lastly, we have added a fifth point in this medium, one last point that suggested that the Podemos billings should be added together, because it seems to us that it contributes well, since it is required that fun should present the precise preparation of the law for development, to the orientation of the steps to be given in development, and the arrangements of their socialization, which are to be done, and to all other respects of the development of the law. So, um, well, it seems to me that at last the entire protection, well, well, well, well... We've had a break... The agreement seems to me a very good one, and I should like to thank you for the labour we all have made in a medium. And as I always like to set the agreement in value, thank you all in advance, and we'll discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u63	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing over the teams who have advanced the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Imérion, is yours, Martínnezion, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u64	Good afternoon. Thank you, CEO. We're discussing the EH gathering proposal about the Housing Act at this moment, and, luckily, we have an agreement between the left opposition and the government. From our part of it, at first sight, we saw the proposal of the EH Collectors, which is precisely what the law says that a autonomous organism must be formed for the management of the housing policies, and it fixes a deadline for that purpose. The time is full, and we don't have that autonomous organization, and we know that the government has no intention of creating it. On the other hand, and as the law prescribes, it wagers for the rent. In line with the initial proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu, we have introduced a simple and clear amendment, which has now been explained by the proposing group, in which we urged the Basque Government to submit a plan on the development of the Housing Act that would provide guidance on the timetable and on the steps to be taken in the legislative and regulatory development of the Act, as he said, both in the regulatory provisions and in the other issues that have to do with the actual development of that law. It was not a novel proposal on our part. We had made similar proposals on housing commissions. At the first appearance of Councillor Arriola, we also proposed that such planning seemed appropriate to us, given that the Councillor himself also acknowledged that there were dozens of decrees and normative development to be done, first by the Government itself, for a government's own planning; also, and secondly, for the organization and planning of the control work of opposition groups; and thirdly, and above all, also for the general interest, for the sake of the citizenry, because I believe that we cannot afford to have a reasonable and advanced housing law and not to be clear when it will develop. I say this for justice, for transparency and also for the ability to control the opposition, which is our job in this case in the Basque Parliament. But, well, with regard to the agreement that we have reached between the four groups, as has now been explained, the proposal on the creation of the single housing agency, which is an issue that is raised in the law, remains out of place or at some point, but, as has been explained, we have reached this agreement and will continue to work on it. It is not up to this parliamentary group or the opposition to explain the government's position on this, but I believe that, on a subject of transparency as well, this is the moment when... We do not have this in the regulatory timetable, perhaps in a while, but I think it is worth the government explaining whether that is going to be put into effect in this legislature, what you want to do with it, if you want to transform... Because what we can't do is act like it's not, and it's in the law. With regard to rent, which is where we would have to focus in this case, we make a positive assessment of the law. We were not in the last parliamentary term in this Parliament, but we make a positive assessment. Of course it has the capacity to improve and we have proposals for it, but, well, focusing on the issue of rent, which seems to us to be the central issue of compliance also with the subjective right to housing, both in law and in the agreement we say that by 2020 one hundred percent of housing promotion has to be rent. Well, since we will have to trust, we will have to go to work and generate confidence that these agreements will materialize, both in law and in today's agreement. And also, as mentioned above, we will analyse in detail this year's budgets, but also those of 2019 and 2020, which we believe is where we really see the will to comply with the law and the agreements. Because, as I said, in that capacity for improvement and proposals that we have for the law, we believe that there are some issues that can be kept short. It is true that it protects and accompanies a number of broad collectives, but it is true that for many working people, who also do not have such precarious economic conditions but not excessively good, we have to improve that situation, because they are out because of the unorbited rental prices that we have on the market. Wages are not sustained by the rental prices, nor even purchase prices, that are on the market. We think from our parliamentary group Elkarrekin We can't afford the sacrosanct market to prevent people from building life projects. We believe that we can go much further, because we are living right now, the working class, with fairly low wages, with rents, for example in the city in which I live, of more than 800 euros on average. We believe that this is a totally unsustainable situation, and that we could go much further, and we will have to work in this Parliament on it, because we can also stop and limit private rents. On the registration of uninhabited dwellings provided for in the Basque Housing Act, we believe that it is clearly a matter of control of legislative action, it is a matter of justice and it is also a matter of transparency. Obviously, we have that situation with the Constitutional Court – I don't know if it is worth it now to play the role of the Constitutional Court, how it is formed and what it takes to do one thing or what it takes to do another – but we believe that, just as we have reached that agreement in this transaction, we don't have to wait, we can't delay it without die, and we believe that we need to develop all the legislation, all the administrative capacity of the Government, so that, when this situation goes back and we can get it started, it can be put immediately to the next day, metaphorically speaking (but, well, immediately). Therefore, and in the end, we appreciate the agreement that we have reached. I hope that as soon as possible the agreements we have reached today, both those relating to the law and those specific to this parliamentary agreement, will begin to materialise. We will be on top of that, and I think the ideal would be that at the very latest for the end of this session this whole issue was developed, and that this timetable could also be presented here, and the mechanism for registering uninhabited dwellings. In that we will be, in that we will be insisting, a little heavy if necessary, but in the spirit of working and developing that Housing Law and also of improving it, as I said at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u65	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't deny that I'm happy today. I'm really very happy, because I think today is a happy day. To get this great harmony we've made today, I won't say it's easy, but it's been easy, and if it's been easy, especially because we've been all responsibilities. And that's a good thing to do. We have laid the work upon the table; we have spoken honestly; every one has put his arguments on the table, and we have behaved with suppleness. And I, Madam Olivet, am particularly grateful to you for the effort you've made, really, because if this law was accepted, it's not merit to put it on either of us, but it's because there was an agreement between us. And that's very kind of you. And it's true you've had the chance to be strict today and you're not... I'm going to say that you've done it with responsibility. But I'll say one more thing. When we speak of this subject and of the autonomous organism, we must be severe ourselves, because in an important part this law is also ours, because it is socialiston. And within our commitments, and within the framework of law enforcement, we too are going to be strict, and, even though it appears to be a lie and we are a parliamentary group that supports the Government, I believe that, by our way of being, by our way of conceiving these issues, and because this law is authored to a large extent by us, so zorrotzak isan behar gara, eta zorrotzak izango gara. I am convinced that when we put on the table and have a debate on whether or not to create an autonomous body the arguments that we put on the table, whether to create them or not, will have enough weight and sufficient foundation for that step to be taken or not, because we will do so with conviction. Not because we're in a government, we're going to be more or less soft. We're going to analyze it, and it's actually being analyzed. And I also believe that soon we will have a very appropriate framework to do so, within what may be the law of public service. But it is significant to me that every time we bring up issues relating to the Housing Act, things are adopted unanimously. And it seems to me important, because it was a law that did not count on that unanimity, with that welcome of the whole parliamentary arc, and yet we can say that to a large extent there is a will not only to reach agreements, but to ensure that this law continues and is completed. Therefore, I think it is very grateful – I said earlier – that we are all working on this issue with a country vision, without selfishness; trying to take steps from firmness, from conviction; each of us obviously without giving up his or her postulates, but I believe that with a country vision that will ensure that this government can continue to develop this law legally and that somehow we have a powerful law. A law that somehow we have to get to be avant-garde, to be a pioneer, and that really puts us at the forefront of social rights. If we entered this government we were of course quite clear that it was not to dilute our identity, that it was to ensure that social policies, progressive policies, could materialize. And we were very clear that if a socialist advisor carried the Housing Department that would be possible, and that in addition to our concept of rental housing policy, or the empowerment of rental policies, it would receive an important boost. And I think that's how it is. And he said that we have to make this law state-of-the-art, and I think it is, despite the fact that we still have a lot of regulatory development ahead of us and we have a lot to do. And, if I am not mistaken, at these precise moments, or throughout today, several prominent members of Mr Arriola's department will appear in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands to explain precisely our law: the scope, how it was achieved, and all the details. Why? Because that Parliament is very interested in that law, and in being able to do something similar in the Balearic Islands. And I think it's something that should make us proud, be able, as a government, as a country, as an autonomous community, to export social policies that serve other autonomous communities. I therefore believe that we are faced with the main challenge of supporting a social right, and I think that is very important. We are referring, the Government is working intensively on this normative development, in addition it is doing so on fundamental issues such as the decree that will guarantee the subjective right to housing; it is also doing so generously, not unilaterally, but even sharing it through a participatory process with collectives, with entities, with movements, and I think it is also a matter to be highlighted. And of course we are very clear that we are to comply with the law, and, in this regard, that second point that we are going to adopt today I think is very important, that it guarantees it and that it even extends it, as Mrs Otamendi has rightly said. I therefore believe that this is also a matter on which we must be satisfied and proud. Of course, we regret that the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on those suspended articles. And I from here – and I am firmly convinced of the need for a separation of powers – would make an appeal to the Constitutional Court to resolve it as soon as possible. Because it is a truncated issue, because it is a fundamental issue within the law, and because I believe that this Government must have the opportunity to get to work as soon as possible on the creation of that register. We therefore need that pronouncement. But we are also not going to stop, and I believe that in this sense the spirit and objectives of the Government are also reflected, in so far as, in some way, the Government does put instruments and implement policies, that, although they are not what was conceived in the law, they can in some way be something complementary that allows us to move forward, as can be the empowerment of the intermediation programmes (Bizigune...); the collaboration with the municipalities, because there are a lot of municipalities that are working intensively on implementing rental housing policies and I think we have to help them; we have to help and strengthen even the whole communicative policy, so that people who own housing, and more now that there is going to be a very important amount of housing that is going to stay out of what is conceived as tourist housing, have the opportunity to know the benefits that a rental housing can have. I therefore believe that we can do that, and we need to work hard to strengthen those flanks and make it possible for us, as long as we do not have a report, or the resolution of the Constitutional Court, to work on these issues. I was talking before the budget. It is important that this commitment be reflected. As I said, the second point is going to be perfectly reflected, and I hope and hope that we will have broad support in the next budget precisely so that policies of this kind can be guaranteed and implemented. So, finally, I think it's a day to be happy and to be satisfied. I was saying that I extend my thanks to all the parliamentary groups that have made it possible for this transaction to be on the table today and to be approved. Although the People's Party has not joined the compromise because it has not tabled an amendment, I imagine that on some of the issues that are reflected it will agree. I think it is a day to be happy, because today I think we are taking a firm step back in the guarantee or in the fact that we can guarantee social rights for the citizens of this country. As I have told you, I believe that we have had a high point of view today, we have had a sense of country, and in this regard I hope and hope that we will continue to work in this direction in the future, because that will undoubtedly result in the well-being of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u68	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. We have another proposal to discuss, as explained in the development of the Housing House, and, well, a few months ago, that we had already accepted a similar educative as well in this affair, and even in it we were asking for the development of the Housing Law, and it may be said that it is already developing a number of points already agreed upon, because the sequence of decree, which will regulate the subjective right without going any further, is already in progress. And even today, we have obtained a large deal of arrangement around the development of the law, in several other parts, and, well, in your original proposition, was received as the first point, I would like to mention about the formation of that single organism, and so on the previous blackmailes which have been made, that we had taken notice of the proposition of the law of the Public Sector in the course of the week, and already the transferation will be set up. And, well, I think it's right to regulate this sector in a sectorial law, and how this sector will be regulated and arranged, but I believe at this moment, in the Administration universality, around the entire public sector, a discussion will be urged in this respect and in accepting it for the improvement of the public sector... or at least in order to accept a single organization of that sort which is necessary in the housing area, and which is to be placed within that dispute which is to be brought about by that law-propos which has been introduced. In the meantime, M. M. M.M. would have to continue to manage the housing as a whole, to use the means he has, and it will be necessary, too, to have a direct co-ordination with other institutions, and here it has been mentioned, and I'd like to mention the role of the profession on the subject of the housing. He's been traversing this extra preparation for the housing for years now, and he's working on it for the moment, even now. And we'll have to see how, at this time of transition, this preparation for the housing of the Housing Act is also to be handled, and, again, all these things must be explained. And I think it's proper, within this general frame, to give that discussion to the housing. The day before yesterday they were admitted... Well, I'm sure it's the bill of budget for next year, and as it happened for 2017, it's in the budget of the housing budget between Housing's budget, 80% of rental policies, and it's going to be built to train, forever keeping the budget safe. I believe now that the budget is now open, and that the time for the budget will be the opportunity of all the members of this legislature and of all the members of the community, and also of all of us, in order to make proper corrections and proposals. And well, as has been said, a step has been advanced to 2020, so that with a little more ambition the real bet on rent will be made to promote domestic policy. The rent, I am convinced, is the right way to give a house to a citizen who needs a home from public institutions, and I agree that, in spite of this, the establishment of public housing must be followed and must be built more; We've also also received the benefit of encouraging programmes like live and ASAP for this purpose, and knowing how difficult a landlord can see in his apartment in renting and selling it, is it necessary to bring peace and confidence to all those people in those campaigns, to explain the guarantee he offers, and to get a financial income out of his own house, and also to give it a social income if not to the people who need it? I think the campaign should mark that very well, because it's our responsibility as an organization. And, moreover, it has been brought up in the middle of the world that those dwellings which have been driven to Turism by the law will be excluded from this market, and especially those who possess it, must have a better chance of renting their houses by such intermediary, and with that security and security. I believe, and I mentioned it in the preceding plune, that it will be one of the principal challenges of this law, both for you and I believe for the Congressman, the development of the Housing Law, and this development has been broken up in some way by the appeal of the Spanish Government to the Constitutional Court. The housing has its full jurisdiction on the themes, and consequently its full right to regulate, plan, and advance the domestic policy. When the definition of empty housing was received in the House Law, I think it was given an answer to an annual demand, which, I think, is an Instrumental definition, because it is able to make the housing policies advance, and I don't think it is at all possible for the state to regulate the right of property... This definition presupposes any water in this respect, and therefore I do not see it justified in presenting this appeal. So I wish, from this point of view, that this interruption may be raised or decided as soon as possible, that we may be able to proceed with our pretty ones. It is well known what position this law had during the preceding legislation, and what proposals we made of selling empty housing, and perhaps we may still have differences among the groups; but in any case, I believe the census of the vacant housing is of a special importance, because it will give us information, and then we may be able to direct the policy of the vacant housing. And what we have admitted as the final point, I think is absolutely necessary. It is true that it is a complex law, that it will require a great deal of rules for development, decrees, rules, orders, and so on, and I believe that it will already be done by you, but it would be a good idea to have a knowledge of it, as well as a calendar, in what manner this development is intended or when it is made, because it would make a great deal easier for all of us to do or do it. And, well, I want to thank all the teams to finish up too. I think it was easy or easy to get to an agreement. I think we all have the same objectives, because we all have the right to be a decent housing to carry on in the right way of our lives, and, well, we'll be able to go on with development and get to harmony, and maybe to discuss a great many things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, everyone. Indeed, as set out in the initiative and here it has been said, on 18 June 2015 the Housing Act was adopted, and the points contained in the proposal no original law, which was the creation of this autonomous body, giving preference (more than preference, was exclusivity) to the rental policy, and the creation of the register of uninhabited dwellings. Our group expressed the criteria on those points at the time, and today we do want to move it here. Indeed, I believe that we all agree, as the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has said, on the need to fulfil the right to housing, and that all Basques and Basques have decent housing, and that they can exercise that constitutionally recognized right. That is why we have always advocated in this House the need for a housing law in Euskadi. But – we said it at that time, and I want to reiterate it here today – that we recognized the need for a housing law did not mean that we were in accordance with any housing law, and we were not in agreement with it at that time. That is why at the time we voted against the law. We also said at that time that this law was born with insecurity, with large doses of legal uncertainty, and so it was, because then the Constitutional Court admitted an appeal, depending on part of that law. With regard to the points that are brought here today concerning that law, with regard to the creation of the autonomous body, we did not agree at that time and we still do not agree with that need for the establishment of the autonomous body. I believe that at the moment the Housing Department itself has sufficient tools to develop these policies, as I say, aimed at ensuring that all Basques can have housing. With regard to devoting all public resources to rent, we too made our reservations at that time. It seems to us that there shouldn't be just that rental formula. It is true that this must be the priority, because it is true that the demand for rent is increasing, and we believe that according to that, in fact, priority must be given to that formula of access to housing, but that priority does not mean that it must be exclusive. We have already said at that time, at the time of the adoption of the law, that different formulas should not be excluded to satisfy that housing need. In addition, in the absence of housing, the law provided for the transfer of government action to the private sphere and the transfer of burdens to the private sphere. And there were, and continue to be, protective housing in the hands of public institutions that are unoccupied, but yet it is intended to shift the burden to private owners and penalize them for not renting such properties. Therefore, what we then proposed was to delete those articles (because, first of all, we considered that they clashed with other rights that were constitutionally recognized), and in this way to be able to provide the law with legal certainty. In our view, the status of property was affected, which, under article 33 of the Constitution and article 149.1.1 and 18, is the responsibility of the State. For this reason, all articles relating to the forced rental of uninhabited dwellings, and other regulators of intervention in the housing and endowments market, affected, in our view, and has since become apparent, directly in this status of property law, whose regulation is exclusively the responsibility of the State. The regulation of uninhabited housing canon, forced rent, forced expropriations, clashed with that right, and therefore there were doubts that we had competence to regulate them. And, as I say, that is what the Constitutional Court has said. And, besides not agreeing because it clashed, in our opinion, with the Constitution, we also did not agree with its philosophy. We do not agree with the imposition of a fee or a forced rent. We considered that they were much more effective, in the face of such coercive measures, positive measures, measures to encourage the placing of empty housing on the market, and part of those amendments were then directed at that law. And we believe that this is the policy that must be followed by the Department of Housing. We have always said this, we believe that it is much better to encourage than to penalize, that it is better to carry out positive measures that will lead and push the owners of the properties to put them on the market, than not to punish them for not doing so. That is why we did not agree with that register, which, as outlined in the law, is aimed exclusively at not being able to have information on which dwellings are empty and in this way to be able to carry out an incentive policy, but simply to have an instrument that can, if the suspension of such coercive measures is lifted, be able to implement them. And we do not agree with that record that is intended to be created. In any case, obviously the law was passed, the laws are to be complied with, and I therefore request that, of the compromise amendment to which it has been reached, points 1, 2 and 5, if possible, be voted on the one hand, and points 3 and 4 be voted on the other. With regard to paragraphs 1, 2 and 5, we are going to vote in favour, and with regard to paragraphs 3 and 4 we are going to abstain, because, although we do not agree, as I have explained, with the content, nor with that record, obviously, as I said, the law was passed, the laws are to be complied with, and we are not going to oppose such compliance. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u71	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing it over to your call, Madam Olives, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u72	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. In short, only, as has been remarked, this agreement, which we have taken, or arrived at, will, above all, advance three points which seem important to us: The production of autonomous organism, Françoise, well, we'll be able to discuss this need again, as Mr. Avenez has well spoken of. And all our arguments are upon the table: and the new arguments we have given, and put into our hands. And we're sure that at last we'll all realize the importance of creating this, and I'm sure we'll end up with it. And meanwhile, since we're asking you to do it in an integrated and co-ordinate way, I'm happy with this deal. The second point, which I would like to highlight, is the budget. It seems to me very happy, especially because it makes us look forward to the duties of our friends, and a duty which the law insists on, which I think is very important, because we place our commitments on the table to fulfill. As we said 20. for years, we wouldn't lead a public house to the sale, and we'd force it or go... All those housing units that'll make up the public housing will be transferred to rent. So it seems very important to me. And finally, what we said about the register. We continue to think that the register should be carried forward as soon as possible; if there are so many difficulties to do it, we'll have to find them in order to get the formulas started. And that's what you're finally asking for. And in this way, to put on the efforts of the department or of the Housing House, this public housing park, which is adapted to the rent, increase, increase, and increase, by special programmes that are involved. And I think, as we've been talking about all the groups, such private housing that, for instance, will leave the tourist trade... that it would be very important, if all these flats, or all these flats, were to strengthen the public income-or direct it. So, like I said. Thank you all, I think it's a fine arrangement, and we'll continue to make such an arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u73	Thank you, Madam Mount. Anyone else? Together, I don't... Yes, Social Party?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u74	Well, for the first time in a short time, thank you all again! Man, Mrs. Llanos, it was normal for you not to be in favor of that law. It was normal. And I think they were consistent with your thinking, and I mean it honestly. That law was a progressive law, it was a left law, we made it two left parties, we brought it to this House and we got it approved. Therefore, the logical thing is that you did not support her. And I am especially grateful to you that, once you have assumed that this law is passed and that we already have it on the table, let us all try to be as proactive as possible in order to ensure that it is fully developed and that we can have it fully developed as soon as possible. You were talking about insecurity. I don't think this law was born with insecurity. I think this law was born without complexes, it was born with courage, because we were brave to put it on the table. And I think that many times, when you do politics from the vanguard and not from the rear, you have to take risks, and we ran them, even though we knew that maybe there were things that from the Constitutional Court just as well were not tolerated very well. But, well, I hope and hope that at some point, and as soon as possible, the Constitutional Court will understand not only the good faith that we had in drafting the law in those terms and in that particular case, but, beyond that, the need to create that register of empty houses as an instrument to facilitate that rental policy in which the socialists believe vehemently, and hopefully we will have it as soon as possible. You were talking about coercive policies. No, I don't think those are coercive policies, I don't think they're punishment policies. It is punished when you try to speculate, and when a person has housing to speculate, then I understand that it feels like punishment. I tell you, you'll feel it like a punishment, but I don't think it's a punishment, or at least that's not the spirit and spirit with which that law was born, with which that record was born and with which the policies that this Government will be able to carry out will be born. We wanted to encourage rent, and we understand that when there are people, when there are owners who have empty houses, then rent should be encouraged. I understand that when the spirit is speculative it hurts, but, as I said, this law from the beginning has always been conceived in a constructive spirit and from a avant-garde spirit, which, as I said, fortunately is being exported to other parliaments, to other chambers, and I believe that it is something that must greatly satisfy us. The second point, Madam Ottagon, is, indeed, very important to do so, to get over it today, to test it, and to have that reflex on the assumptions. We feel this way, and therefore we have had no objection from the Government, or from our group, to place it there, and to test it. Why? Because that will also facilitate that within our concept, and within the path, route and course that Mr Arriola's department is setting, the rental policy will be enhanced. And, as I said – and I link it to the issue of empty housing registration – we are clearly not in favour of breaking the law, not even perhaps working in vain, to the extent that without defined criteria we can begin to work on certain issues that are not later to the extent of the Constitutional Court's ruling. Therefore, we will be proactive in implementing other policies that will enable us to promote the rental of empty housing and, as I said, continue to take firm steps to ensure that this law is fully effective as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians from that point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u76	Very briefly, with your permission, to give Mrs. Llanos a slight answer. I understand, when the Spanish Government appeals to the Constitutional Court some articles of the Housing Act, and specifically the concept of uninhabited housing – I said earlier – I do not think it comes into conflict with the exclusive jurisdiction that the State may have to regulate property rights. From there, I understand that the concept of uninhabited housing – a concept, a definition we have been demanding from different institutional areas for a long time – clarifies and facilitates the development of housing policies in this case. And I think that in any case the register of empty or uninhabited housing is necessary, and there we might perhaps disagree with the groups in this House on what measures should be taken from the institutions to promote the use of uninhabited housing. I can agree with the People's Group, because I am not going to hide the position of my group and my party in the process and adoption of this law either, but I think that these are two different things. I believe that registration, in any case, will be a good tool that can give us the information we may need to implement policies and measures, although I too can share with you that encouraging I like more than punishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The Basque Group is represented by the Popula.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u78	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. And simply to point out that he was born with large doses of legal insecurity not only said this group, it was also said by groups that opposed the law, such as the Basque Nationalist Party. Man, that's a progressive law to me, it's a left-wing law... Well, here it seems – I said it when the law was debated – that a left-wing party immediately gives it the progressive character, and per is taken to the bonanza of the law. And we do not agree with that at all. And it has also been said that it was a law without complexes and with value. No, what it was was a law with large doses of demagogy. I said it then and I keep it now. It seemed that from that law all Basques and all Basques who needed it were going to have a home at their disposal, and it is being seen that this is not the case, because since this need for housing is being covered is essentially through an economic benefit that already existed before that law. With which, as I say, there was a lot of bombardment in that law. And good faith, when the mandates of the Constitution are not fulfilled, I do not think that can be claimed. But, in any case, as has been said here, the law was passed, and, from the moment this House passed the law, it is to abide by it, or, if not, to take the decisions or initiatives that are appropriate to change it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u79	Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote... Is there a problem voting on points? Anyone? Some group? Okay. We shall vote for the first, the second and the fifth points: 1, 2 y 5. We voted first, then, 1, 2, and 5 points, EH Collect, together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments that have been signed by the Teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 68; the supporters 68; the opponents, 0; white, 0; abstation, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u80	So the three points have been unanimously accepted. After that, we'll vote for points 3. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 68; the supporters of 59; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u81	So two points have been accepted. Five point in theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary Podemos," he said to himself. "I don't know. [[Berber]] I've been told that points will be cut short, so if we make an effort... What do you want? Because there's a great deal of agreement... [[Berber]] Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, about helping to improve the euscal system of social services. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Miss Podemos, Mrs. Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u82	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Elkarrekin We can taldeak, ekimen honoren bidez, gizarte-zerbitzuen system hobetzeko neurri berriak bullzatu nahi ditu. Ekimenaren arazoian onartzen genuine indarrean legealdiaren balioa, baita instituzio guztien esfortzuak legealdia aurrera erateko era. Dena her, Hobetzeko system, aurre aurre zenbait eginbehar ditugu. May well-being be a reality for all and all; may all and everyone, regardless of our starting point, aspire to live better, and may we find support, network, solidarity and confidence in our capacities on the road. The Basque system of social services, together with the health system and the education system, are three main pillars for ensuring that well-being and better living are a possible aspiration for all people. For Elkarrekin These three pillars are central to the agenda, and today we bring proposals to improve the Basque system of social services. Act No. 12/2008 of 5 December 2008 is a milestone in moving towards a Basque system and a right of access to social services. Subsequent decrees (the portfolio, the strategic plan, the social services map) complete an ambitious and advanced policy framework. But there are some weaknesses and risks that can hinder or hinder the development of the system with the depth that the issue requires. We believe, as we have said on many occasions, that the legislation it regulates is positive, but that it runs the risk, if we do not act in its improvement, of emptying the right of content. In this regard, and to project proposals for improvement, we have taken as a reference, among other things, Ararteko's extraordinary report on the situation of social services, which we know has been a questionable report, but it does not stop containing things that are useful to strengthen our work. We also want to take advantage of the fact that we are here to acknowledge the work of Ararteko in his extraordinary and ordinary reports, because we understand that they are an important framework that helps us to move forward and, of course, to walk in our parliamentary work. One of the weaknesses noted in this Ararteko report is the information available in the field of the Basque system of social services, which is essential in order to be able to monitor, evaluate and plan the development of the regulations, providing social services more tailored to the needs of people. The portfolio of social services states that the Basque Government is responsible, among other things, for ensuring the quality of the system, and for this it has, among many others, the instrument called the Basque Information System. The Basque Information System on Social Services today is doing a job, and we are sure that an effort, which we recognize and value. But this does not exclude that we can see that there are difficulties and areas of improvement necessary to have an up-to-date knowledge, and elements to carry out a continuous evaluation of the deployment and functioning of the Basque social services system. It is important to assess, but also, as today, to reach consensus that will allow us to move forward. In this respect, we are presenting an amendment negotiated by all the groups that are represented in this House, in which we point out three areas of action. First, the Basque Parliament recognizes the value and usefulness of the various studies carried out around the Basque system of social services, which serve to know the evolution and needs of the system, as well as the weaknesses detected and margins of improvement of the system, such as the lack of homogeneous indicators, the temporary gap of some surveys, the clear breakdown of primary and secondary care services, the clearer identification of all services and responsible institutions, the detailed information on all services, so that the administrations responsible for planning, design and delivery of services and services can have as up-to-date indicators as possible and provide a forecast of the needs of the system. Secondly, Parliament urges the Government to set up a working group within the framework of the Basque Social Services Council to coordinate, design and propose measures to improve the weaknesses identified in relation to the information system. And above all that works for the interoperability of records, indicators and parameters, which will certainly help to improve this problem that we have with the information. In addition to this, the statistical body of the department itself, as well as the Ararteko, is urged. Finally, to the development of a homogeneous system of registers, indicators and parameters based on interoperability, for which we consider it essential to study the feasibility of using free software technologies, as a way to bet on tools to ensure interoperability of systems and to save on private technology costs. We thank all the signatory groups once again for their willingness to fuck this proposal and to reach agreement. You see I've been brief. I hope we all go the same way. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the Euskal popular, Mrs Garrido, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Guanche, fellow Members of Parliament, as Mr Uria would say, I will also be brief, and also for obvious reasons that I do not have the right voice. "Efectivistente, hemos llegado a nocerdo." We have come to an agreement on this subject, I think, to an important agreement. We, in the general correction of our conduct, said that weakness ought to be corrected, weakness of the system of information, and even that it would be proper to refer to a common frame in the future. I think these two things appear in the signed agreement, and that's why we finally help him. As I said, the two points that we discussed in our entire amendment are reflected in the compromise amendment that we have signed with the other groups represented in this House; therefore, in that sense, satisfaction. We believe that it is also important to echo the very recommendations made by Ararteko in his report concerning the situation of the municipal social services of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and some, or most important ones, are of course included in this agreement, and we will therefore support this compromise amendment. Let us hope that, sooner than later, the Basque Government of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party will comply with this agreement, and with such compliance also, with the studies to be carried out in relation to the weaknesses of the system, also the working group and also the possibility of developing a homogeneous system of registers and indicators in the Basque system of social services, so that improvements can be put in place, implemented, and that in the end all citizens will benefit from these improvements. Therefore, I have nothing more to add. Eta eskerrik asko denoi, akordio beats heldu garelako.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u85	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, the lady of the Kortah, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u86	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Congressmen, good noon. Like all other means of protection, societies also require a strong system of information in the world, I think we agree in order to promote the management of knowledge, and the access of public services, the division of resources, and the expenditure of persons cultivated, and the means of making decisions about it. Therefore, as it is logical, and Mrs. Guanche has well explained, the laws of our Social Services are also predicting an integrated system of information to manage the systems of the eucalyptic services. But, as is the case with the law of the Social Services, and in general with the development of this system, there is still a great void in this sense. I've often said that in this legislature we're in a katholic situation around the system of social services, and what happens with the system of information is the reflection of what happens in that computer system, not... All the organizations that tend to social services get data, they take statistics, memory reports, a lot of reports. And, besides, I'd say they've got the data routine, but everything around them is a corporal, no. Each of them receives data according to its own criteria, according to its parameters, and there is nothing homogeneous, something united, and then the data received from these collections are rare; there are gaps, and according to it schedules are difficult and difficult. I am not going to enter here about what the interrogators have appeared in his report, nor will I enter into the discussion about the Sociosanitarian camp yesterday, where I believe the late medical advisers have also mentioned the limits of the social service system as to the system of information, and he also quoted the difficulties which it presupposes to co-operate with the health field. And those who remained on the table, besides those of the Ardecians, are also present. In short, due to its trajectory and its particular rhythms and characteristics, the Basque system of social services still does not have a unified information system that will help to improve planning and evaluation work or its knowledge by citizens. Although it is true in recent years that a number of initiatives have been developed that have improved this situation, through the generation of observatories and information systems that offer data, indicators and such, and that are being done very well, despite everything, we do not have a joint and homogeneous system for the collection of that information. And I, today, what I'd like to say is, if we don't have them, it's not because there's a technical problem to have them. I do not say that the question is easy, but some of our other systems are very experienced in such matters, and we have something to learn and bring into this system. And this also was the consultant of the Medical Department. He would say: "Tenemos mucho que en el ámbito de lo socili en lo referido al system de regeida de informoción." I think it is, and, no doubt, that's what's been going on, technically, human ability to organize all kinds of information like that. She has... For otherwise we may see other reports, such as this examination of neglect and poverty, its quality... this report is extremely good quality. There is a power; it is another thing whether this is a priority or not. Eta egia says that our concern for the development and pace of the Social Services Act and the development in this sense of the social services system is well known, and also that we are very concerned about one thing that we have reiterated on many occasions, and it is the lack of leadership of the Basque Government in all this development. And, for us, what happens to gathering information is just another element that confirms our thesis a little bit. Nine years later, it is difficult to justify that we do not have a joint information collection system that allows us to gather information and exploit the data, including records, that allows us to make comparisons... It's hard to understand, if it had been a priority, why don't we have it. Pero, como hay que venta, I believe, that in this sense we have had a great deal of harmony, that there was a chance of agreement in this, and that the agreements which might have been obtained in this, might, in some measure, help us to assume that prospect which social services ought to be, and to assist in the development and improvement of this frame of organization. And in this sense, as far as he allows us to pass from word to action, he seems to us to be a good bargain, and therefore I ought to thank the party as well as the others, and also Mrs Garrido, to protect the initiative by signing it. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u88	Yes, thank you, President. The right to social services is set out in the 2008 law of 5 December, which regulated and ordered the entire Basque system of universal social services and the duty to coordinate and cooperate with each other by public administrations, and established the subjective right of access to social services for all persons who have the right to access it. It is up to the Basque Government and the rest of the institutions (deputies and municipalities) to take the necessary steps to ensure that they are put into operation without imbalances, or to try to avoid such imbalances. The economic crisis has increased the possibilities and causes for citizens to fall into social exclusion. It should be noted that the statistics on social services in the Basque Autonomous Community provide us with a wealth of information and have improved in recent years, and various studies have also been carried out on social services systems in order to know all the developments as well as their needs. That is, to be able to detect what are their lights and shadows, in order to make the necessary corrections. These include the Ararteko report on the situation of municipal social services in the Basque Autonomous Community in 2016, which highlighted the existence of a lack of sufficient information due to a two-year gap in the information received, as well as different difficulties in distinguishing between primary and secondary care services, among other issues. It also highlighted the absence of a common organisational framework, including homogeneous registers and indicators relating to the activity of basic social services, and the poor development of the information system of the Basque system of social services. That is why the compromise amendment that we unanimously signed today by all the groups in this House is aimed at finding a correcting of a number of issues, precisely in order to improve, as in the third point of the amendment that we have signed, where the Government is urged to develop a homogeneous system of registers, indicators and parameters based on interoperability for the evaluation of social services in municipalities and parliaments. And also to set up a working group within the Basque Council of Social Services for the coordination, design and proposal of measures to improve this information system, and also indicates who may be part of this group. All these measures will enable us to improve the information system of the Basque system of social services, and we believe that it is positive. That is why we believe that the compromise amendment that we have arrived at today is good, and of course I would like to thank all the groups that have achieved unanimity in the amendment that we are going to adopt today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u90	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. President. Equipbertarians, and the rest of the party, are favorable to the improvement of the system, difficulties. We join the co-dunsor, with many assertions he says to himself. One of them is that the company's eucalyptic system is good. We can say that it's complicated on both sides, that is to say, three administrative levels-that is to say, the Euskelek, the Aldudias, and the municipalities have jurisdictions in this area. Three, it is not as much developed as we would have liked, though, in the course of recent years, they have been advanced, important, and at least agreed, to accept the rules of development. And four, it requires an immense consent to be able to carry on as closely as possible the euscal system of social services in the three historical countries and in the town halls. With regard to the Ararteko report, entitled "The situation of municipal social services" – here we disagree in some things – which serves as the basis for some of the assessments made in the GNP, we have already expressed our disagreement with some of those statements and conclusions, which we even transferred to Ararteko himself when he presented the report in committee. The report was submitted at the end of 2016, but the data contained therein relate to the years 2013 and 2014. The data are out of date for when it is presented. This means that several of the shortcomings in the report had already been overcome at the time of its submission, which at least led to discomfort in Eudel, because these conclusions had not been shared previously with the municipalities. Therefore, the report is a reflection or photograph of an outdated situation for when it was presented. I think it's an important fact to keep in mind. Having said that, it is true that, given the complexity of the system, in which the three administrative levels of the country are competent, we must still continue to coordinate and improve the system in order to give the best and most homogeneous service to people. We must state that, though slowly, we are going to be slower than we would have done, we are going to step forward, and that we are making it with one mouth or a great consent. This gives power to the system, and certainty to men. We're getting the law developed and the services advanced by political or many institutions, because we believe in the euscal system of social services and we're ready to take steps in favor of its development. It is essential to highlight the high degree of consensus reached in the development of the Basque system of social services, even if it is slower than we would like. As a fundamental pillar of the welfare state, moving forward hand in hand, reaching broad agreements when not unanimous, it seems to us essential, because it provides the system of solidity, stability and security for citizens. In fact, it is true that we must make some progress in order to repair the gaps around the information, in order to interact in co-ordinately, and to overcome the weakness of the system. We believe that today it is important to talk about interoperability, which will allow different administrations to obtain and transfer the information required in the exercise of their own competences, and to this end we urge the Government to set up a working group within the Social Services Council to make progress in obtaining records, indicators and parameters as homogeneous as possible, allowing data interoperability. That is the meaning of the second and third points of the compromise amendment that we have tabled and signed by all groups. In conclusion, we welcome once again the agreement reached on this matter, because we sincerely believe that in order to move forward, even slowly, it is essential to do so in a joint and consensual manner, giving stability and solidity to the system so that no steps are taken back. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Doesn't anyone want to participate in the answer shift? No... ? Oh, wait, wait... Yes, yes. The Kortash...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u92	Just a feeling. If the interrogator's report is disinfected, it's because there isn't a proper system for data, isn't there, among other things? But in addition to all the things that have been said here agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u93	Nobody wants to be involved, right? [[Berber]] Well, since the discussion is over, we'll vote together for Podemos, Euskal Popular, Euska Socialelists, EH Collectors, and Eubertarians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u94	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Society of Euscal, as the popular, the Cyclism, cyclinism, cyclinism, cyclerism, and the other manner of the bicycle, was to be guaranteed to the state and to the security measures of society. Discipline and final resolution. The proposal team's turn, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr Barri, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u95	Thank you very much, President. Counsellors, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, I will be brief, since I believe that the aim of the initiative, of the non-law proposal, was to draw attention to the safety of cyclists, and above all to do so as we did in June, when four issues coincided. The first place, June and July, and it is also usual, are months in which accidents with cyclists and cyclists involved are more intense than other months of the year generally in the practice of this sport and this hobby. And in that regard, some of the situations on different roads in Spain, the Spanish State, were also very alarming and very worrying. Then again, we had the opportunity to receive an association of cyclists and cyclists, who told us certain questions that had to do with many areas: the very practice of cycling, cycling, the situation of roads and some points and some accesses... And in that regard they also drew attention on those dates to the situation on the roads. Also, one of the fundamental elements is that year by year the sale of bicycles is increased in order to practice road cycling, mountain biking, clichotourism..., or because it is also an instrument of transfer to work, to university, to schools and to schools. And in that sense it is being seen that year by year that too is increasing. And it also allowed us, that area of what was going on, plus the meeting we had, plus that data on the sale and increase of people participating in cycling and cycling, so remember the initiative of 8 February 2013 in relation to cycling, which talked about developing, heard from the Basque Federation of Cycling, a guide that defines measures to guarantee the safety and protection of cyclists; to disseminate among cyclists, sportsmen and motorists, using the most appropriate means in each case, the conclusions and measures of the guide, awareness campaigns; it urged the competent institutions to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of cyclists and sportsmen... That is to say, it was put into value four years ago already, and logically what we are doing now is trying to make a reassessment. We wanted a report, but, well, in any case, I believe that the purpose of the initiative is there, in relation to an evaluation, and to be able to know how we are and what measures can be implemented. Because there are, and we have been able to see them, and I will refer briefly to them. I say again, we agree with the transaction. We also have to say, together with these considerations in relation to bringing this proposal, this initiative here, of the opportunity, the need and the request of collectives and cyclists, the fact that in the Basque Country precisely this practice is very rooted, the practice of cycling, historically, and fundamentally in Gipuzkoa, where it has almost the same licenses... And we talk about licenses, because most people don't have federal licenses, but practice it normally without a license. But, well, it's a deep-rooted practice in Euskadi, especially in Gipuzkoa, where we know about cycling, just like in Bizkaia and Álava, but in Gipuzkoa especially. And also in Gipuzkoa with some added problems in relation to some roads and sections and accesses where there is a lot of cycling and there is a lot of danger. That is easy to see, because those associations are showing it on a permanent basis. We had submitted the non-law proposition... I say again that during those weeks prior to the presentation of the initiative there had been – and it was alarming to see the televisions of those days – a very high number of accidents where the victims had been cyclists, mainly run by vehicles on different roads. The circumstances and facts have re-emphasized two issues..., two or more issues, but basically two of us made clear: the irresponsibility of many road, road and road drivers and the particular vulnerability of cyclists in them. But it would also have to add other factors, such as the imperience of many cyclists, or the insecurity of themselves in relation to their first contacts with the road, with the bicycles, or also the state of some sections of some roads, some roads... That is, in that sense, there were issues that drew attention to what was happening, and we could highlight that. I believe that in that sense we had presented that initiative. We called on the initiative for a report on the current safety situation on roads and roads, in relation to the practice of cycling and cycling and the use as personal transport – as I said before – or professional, or sport actually, on certain roads and roads, and for this report to analyse the current safety conditions, proposals and measures for improving roads, and the recommendations in force as a result of the increased use of bicycles (it is clear and objective), and campaigns to be carried out by the Basque Government with a view to raising awareness about the safety of drivers and cyclists and the regulatory needs that could be detested, or needs of any kind. We were talking about who could make that report (the Basque Government's Department of Security in coordination with Sports and local and outsourced institutions...), but, well, in any case, the proposal of the groups supporting the Government and the Bildu amendment is perfectly acceptable from our point of view. Because what I wanted to draw attention to was precisely that, that need to do that control, which we already suggested a few years ago, and the fact that it is an evaluation and that it is done in collaboration with the Federation of Cycling, and that from that evaluation we can take the appropriate measures, because, to us, it seems right to us. We certainly maintain ours, but we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment. Well, we mean that in that sense of what we were talking about, as a practice of cycling, we have also seen how the suggestions made from many areas are there. We have also seen, in preparing this initiative, how abundant the new... And again I draw attention to the fact that this month of June and July have been especially striking in relation to the events that took place, and how institutions and areas not only like the General Directorate of Traffic of course, but RACE or magazines specialized in cycling, but also in automotive as a factor (we have seen associations of cyclists and cyclists, sports federations...), have made a real effort to move advice and security measures in relation to the practice of cycling and cycling. Even somewhere they talked about the devices related to the bicycle: the light helmet, the side separator, the rear light..., in short, innovations that will also have to be analyzed safely. The danger detector, the light bike, the front laser, the road reader, the intermittent bracelet, the intermittent cyclists, the luminous lock... There are a number of issues that have emerged and are there. I mean, in that sense I have nothing more to say. We present this initiative in order to draw attention, in order to work at a particularly delicate time, with much more people on bicycles on our roads, because that is clear and identifiable, as value on one side of sports practice, but as risk also, that we have to be able to study or analyze to solve the problems that will surely continue to present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The turn of the leaders, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u97	Mr. President, Congressman, good noon. Well, the subject we are discussing today is generally discussed when some unfortunate accident happens. In 2012, from a cyclist who got hit by a car in the valleys, or after that, we brought the subject, fortunately, today, it's not like that. But unfortunately, 2017 was tragic, because cars caught a number of critical riders, though the numbers of 2016 have not been exceeded, it is true that the number of riders who are caught in every year is rising. Familiar people who aren't famous. Remember that in March, Ane Santesteban was run over by a car, or even Chris Froom, which had been hit by a car. But, in fact, the last few years have been years since you've been able to highlight in black those who use riders or bikes in regard to the safety of the roads. So we think that we have something to think about, what to do, what to improve, when started from the institutions, although, besides what can be done from the institutions, the common sense of sensitisation and good practice are also essential. But no doubt the government has to be active and effective, it has to establish measures, and we must try to guarantee security. In 2012, the Basque People assembled a proposition which Eucobertary had agreed to with the group, and which, owing to the truth, the Security Department obeyed. Remember, among others, that he had made a sentimental campaign on the Euskal Television, or that the book was made to guarantee security, even though it was only a campaign, and we missed the campaign. It is true that it is not enough, and that the results have not been good and effective. And if we want the results to be effective and good, the government must strengthen the measures, penetrate into the sensibilization campaigns, and the effort cannot be punctual, but must be constant, continuous... You have to try. Not just for riders, not just the ones on the highways, but everybody who practises sports on the highways, and in plain view, at the time of designing the measures, must be taken notice of by car drivers, riders, sports, etc., etc. So what we're doing in our own correction is that what's left in the middle that's agreed today is that, with the Basque cyclists' Federation, we're thinking that this is a thing that we have to do in common, just like when he did at the time, there's been an evaluation around the book: we must know what results it has produced, and know the consequences, in order to penetrate deeper into the measures of the guide-book, and to penetrate with frequency and constancy into the lips of sensibilization. We know that it is not enough, but we think it is a way of starting, and that it is a starting-point for the deeper and better in this legislation. On the other hand, at the time of repairing the roads, the Encyclopean and the Aldus would have to be introduced, it would have to be considered to mark a space for sport-practication, and to develop a map for the highroad Cyclism, where black dots would have to be identified. It should be identified, too, what road it can be marked for a space to practice cycling and use the bicycle, in which we can make the Esthhora works, and in order to be considered in new works a deeper work of cleanness and maintenance. But it is true that I have left the measures I have just pointed out for another purpose, but you must know that we are going to propose them, and that we intend to penetrate the same way as we had begun in the former legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Quevedo said that "He does not live who does not live securely", and indeed security is an essential part of the freedom and integrity of all people. And we are talking about an aspect of life in which security is permanently assaulted, probably by bad behavior, by excesses, and it is always necessary to alert. Because there is also no final security or complete security, it must be constantly renewed and it must be improved. Mr. Barrio proposes that we do it. He has made the explanations, he has done it correctly; therefore, we very much agree with the diagnosis he has made, and also with this idea that comes from the data itself, which are more stubborn than anything else, which is the number of accidents, in growth, that have been occurring on the Basque roads over the last few months. Therefore, if those data, which are the end of a reality but which are not the beginning... That is, when there are accidents, and in addition some of them as a result of death, it is because there are many more excesses and many more recklessness and many more difficulties in cycling than those that really reflect the number of accidents. And, therefore, be vigilant, try to solve all the problems that are being created in this respect, and also incorporate those advances in security, I think it is a task that has to be constantly alerted and reviewed in this Parliament, as Mr Barrio has done. The only difference, to put it this way – which I do not think, by its own explanations and its adherence to the compromise amendment – is whether this is done in an inter-institutional collaboration between the municipalities, parliaments and the Basque Government, or whether it is done, in my view, in a much more direct and much faster way, which is between the Sports Directorate of the Basque Government and the Federation of Cycling in the Basque Country, which are also not only involved and affected, but very interested, with all certainty, in being able to participate in it. And then again with the implementation of the Department of Security itself, bringing these conclusions to the department itself, so that both in the formative part, in the educational part, in the didactic part, and in the concrete security measures, this can be addressed, in the formative part, in the educational part, in the concrete security measures, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the concrete security measures, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the concrete security measures, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the concrete security measures, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the formative part, in the form of an evaluation can be made. Finally, I believe that in this objective we are all, we all share it, and in this plenary today, with six points, so unitary, where everything has come out virtually unanimously, the last point will be no less. And here we leave our position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u100	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. The theme that we are to discuss today is to discuss the claclism, cycism, cyclism, and the other manner of meeting with the bicycle and the security measures of the Eucharistic roads. This is a very important subject for all of us who are fond of bicycles, and we must, in our opinion, seriously consider so many factors in such a discussion. Thus, we believe that, first of all, the work done must be valued. In view of the fact that we did not go back too many years ago, as mentioned earlier in the summer of 2013, the Department of Safety, at the request of this Parliament, produced two extensive guides to promote and improve the protection of cyclists. The first, "Precaution and respect. We all share the road," he was born in response to the request, as I said, from this Parliament, and his aim is to report on the uses, standards and behaviour that must be made on the road when it comes to using them by pedestrians and cyclists and also car drivers. The second one, entitled "This goes on wheels", is designed to promote the safe use of bicycles among families, and is also distributed in the different health centres of Euskadi, as well as in the different schools. As for its objectives, the main objectives of these two guides, we have on the one hand to improve the road safety of cyclists and other road users, and on the other hand to educate in values that guarantee the safety of oneself and of others. We must not forget the commitment this Government has to people, in this case to users of Basque roads and roads, and in this sense we believe that the cycling community can feel identified in it, and whose safety in transit and safe mobility is also a priority from the point of view of our group. Another important area that is also mentioned in Mr Barrio's non-law proposal is the issue of accidentality. In this regard, we believe that the Government has also taken steps in recent years, in particular through the Directorate of Traffic. Not in vain between the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, in addition to other years, different studies have been carried out on accidentality, and monographs, which deepen on the subject. In these reports the objective is to study the characteristics of the different types of accidents, so that the best possible solutions can be implemented later, taking into account the characteristics of this type of events. It should also be recalled that all campaigns carried out by the Directorate of Traffic disseminate awareness-raising messages to all persons who use the roads, and of course also to persons who use the bicycle routes. Without going any further, this past summer an update of the guide "Precaution and respect" was promoted, aimed at people driving both cars and bicycles, with the aim of continuing to deepen in this work that is incumbent on the Government, which we have commented on, to raise awareness. But not only that, since the Department of Safety is actively collaborating with the Euskadi cycling and cycling collective, and in this regard, by setting just one example, annually and periodically technicians of the Ertzaintza and also of the Basque Government's Traffic Department meet with members of the Basque Cycling Federation to approve the annual calendar of cycling tests and also to review the safety requirements that these types of tests have. Finally, I would like to mention and also to highlight a tool that was launched in 2015, which is currently in force and will be in place until 2020, which is nothing other than the Strategic Plan for Road Safety and Safe and Sustainable Mobility 2015-2020; a plan that for the first time in 2015 set out measurable general objectives and concrete strategic goals in addition, which implied a greater commitment by the Government to road safety. This plan, to remember, collects five major goals, in which the cyclist collective is identified and represented. To remember them, these are to protect vulnerable groups, such as the cycling collective; also to improve traffic management on the main roads; to improve road safety on secondary roads, roads increasingly frequented by the cycling collective; to correct inadequate behaviour; and to promote safe and sustainable mobility in urban environments, which are becoming more complex every day. Thus, for example, we find specific objectives, such as maintaining the number of dead at zero or reducing by 40% the number of serious injuries in urban environments, or also reducing by 75% the number of dead or seriously injured cyclists in general. Road education, traffic and road safety research, traffic management, monitoring and control, as well as an advanced management model such as that adopted by the Government, are essential for all this. Also related to accidentality – and already mentioned by those who have spoken before me – a series of data has been mentioned that Mr Barrio requested at the beginning of July on accidentality between 2015 and 2017, and in this regard from our group we believe that it is necessary to highlight that no cyclist has died by accident in 2017, in what we have been doing since 2017, although there have been injuries, serious injuries in addition, and we believe that we must continue to work to ensure that this figure continues to be reduced, from the point of view of the Department of Safety, and that we must work together to achieve this. All this is important, as is communication and awareness. In this regard, the Department of Security of the Basque Government, through the guides, documents and other information I have mentioned throughout my speech, is doing important work in this area, both through work in schools and in other educational areas of the same. Equally important is transversality and joint work. We must not forget that there are a number of interests in this matter, as well as competences, which are in the process of being dealt with by the Members of Parliament, such as those which the municipalities can have through their urban and municipal mobility plans. In this regard, we believe that a joint effort must be made, in which each institution carries out its work within its competence, and always with the Basque Government in pursuit of a common objective, which is to improve road safety. That is why our group is going to support the compromise amendment achieved with the Socialist Party and with Euskal Herria Bildu, whom I thank for the deference shown, and in which we urge the competent institutions (municipalities, parliaments and government) to continue to work on improving the safety of people who use the Basque roads, as well as to carry out an assessment of the measures taken so far by the Sports Directorate, so that they will then be transferred to the Department of Safety and Security and analyse them and take them into account to update the collection of guides, reports and other information available so far. And in that sense, well, we believe that the consensus reached today is important. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. It's your turn, Podemos, Mr. Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u103	Well, I would like to close this debate by trying to broaden the scope of the issue a little bit, of the discussion. Because, while it is true that urban and inter-urban cyclists' abuses generate shock and concern and obvious social support for the victims, it is possible that the understanding of the phenomenon is mediated by the ignorance that we have in part of the cycling reality. That, if we look at what perception we have, for example, of the use of bicycles in Euskadi, then we would think that it is essentially a weekend use, for sports or leisure activities, and if we start to discuss cyclists we will end up talking about Marino and Gorospe, basically. But it is a perception, as I say, partial. Partial and mediated. The bicycle is, above all, a vehicle, and this is defined by the Circulation Code. It's a vehicle with or without an engine. And it's also the most fragile vehicle in the public street. Therefore, the human life circulating in that vehicle is the most vulnerable, and that is why it is the vehicle that needs greater protection. From that point of view, it would be sufficient to say that the rules of the Circulation Code must be applied and enforced. And that's true and it's important, but it's not the only thing. If we get out of that weekend when we have cyclists doing sports, and we take that same bike to go down that same road on a working day, the possibility that a truck or a delivery van, or a car in a hurry, because it's a working day and it's late for work, it hits us or even moves us off the track is much bigger than on the weekend. Therefore, cyclists and cyclists have more problems than compliance with the Circulation Code, they have more problems than safety and security issues, visibility, which are important but not the only ones. For example, I am glad that Mr Barrio has brought this issue here, and I thank him for the personal affection I have for him, but right now cyclists and cyclists have a serious problem with the attitude that the People's Party has had at state level in adopting certain laws, which have incorporated problems they did not have before. For example, the reform of the Criminal Code has decriminalized misconduct on the basis of slight imprudence. That means that right now hitting a cyclist with the result of death is only four years in jail. And I know that the People's Party and other groups are working to remedy that mistake, that tremendous mistake, so that it doesn't, but today is what we have. It also happens that the People's Party, for example, has changed the rules on valuation and damage caused by road accidents, primarily to benefit insurance companies, but indirectly this has harmed cycling people. Why? Because, for example, the cost of insurers' expertise has been raised, and right now doing a forensic assessment of a hit person is more expensive than before. And also fighting against an insurer, on the part of a private individual or a private individual (in this case the hit biker), implies that right now you can be imposed the costs of the trial, if you lose it, which makes many hit bikers not go to trial just to avoid that. So, what we have is that right now hitting a cyclist is very cheap from the criminal point of view and from the point of view of the compensation that insurers have to pay. I understand that this is not Mr Barrio's responsibility, nor do I want to give it to him, but it is a circumstance which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, seeks to broaden the scope of the problem. But also cyclists and cyclists have many other problems. They have a problem in this country with non-existent docks, or dirty docks, which force the cyclist or cyclist to go out onto the road to avoid obstacles, which sometimes imply that at a given time that causes a hit. They have a problem of disrespect, as has been said, on the part of other vehicles, but they also have a problem that there is no bidegorris, or that sometimes the bidegorris are placed in the walking areas, with which in the end the pedestrians occupy the bidegorri, and the pedestrians are still more vulnerable than the cyclists. And they also have a problem that right now in many means of transport bicycles cannot be loaded, and this causes that sometimes long-distance routes have to be used on routes that could otherwise be done by public transport. In any case, we are going to support the compromise amendment that has been tabled by other groups and we are going to give critical support. Why critical support? Because if the spirit of this amendment does not mean that the bicycle, as I said at the beginning, is a means of transport, it is above all a means of transport, all the solutions that are applied will be partial. But also bicycles are not only a means of transport, but they are the most sustainable and healthy means of transport. It is the least polluting, it is the least space occupied, and it is the most contributing to the fight against climate change. Therefore, supporting the bicycle would not only involve removing other vehicles from the public road, but would help to pacify traffic, to pacify traffic. The compromise amendment mentions three measures which we consider to be particularly important. One is to promote coexistence between users of the roads. True, but based on the principle of vulnerability: more protection must be given to those vehicles that are most vulnerable, and therefore bicycles must be given priority protection. Secondly, it is said that the roads must be adapted to new uses. True, but given one question: the bike has come to stay. It is not an anecdotal issue, it is not just a matter of sport; it is a means of transport that will increasingly be used. And the third question, and last but not least: awareness-raising campaigns must be carried out. Also, it's true, okay. Of the users, of drivers, of cyclists (why not, because there are also cyclists who may not respect the rules of movement), but also of the agents and the agents of traffic, because at times it is precisely those traffic agents who do not consider the bicycle as another means of transport, who do not include it in the Circulation Regulation, and therefore do little favour to the pacification of the roads and the safety of the cyclists themselves. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u104	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The answer's turn, someone wants to participate... ? Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u105	Yes, thank you. From the seat, with your permission, Madam President. Very briefly, to tell Mr Becerra, also from the fondness, that he has used this moment to make some side-by-side criticisms of the Government of Spain. Well, it's usually the usual. But I have to tell you that precisely in those keys last May 2017 the Road Safety Committee of the Directorate General of Traffic had a special meeting in addition to deal with this issue and the incidence of drivers' responsibility, and from there came many measures. Some measures that will be implemented by the Directorate-General for Traffic, others that will be agreed with the Autonomous Communities, and others that the Government itself is already taking in relation to actions on the causes of accidentality, in addition to increasing sanctioning procedures in relation to this issue. I believe that this could have been a parliamentary error, which is logically being remedied and properly analysed and corrected, and in addition, new ways of neutralising these irresponsible, criminal conducts are being opened up on the road, and in particular to recidivism or to those who are consumers of alcohol and drugs, etc., etc. I believe that this meeting precisely sought to strengthen those areas of sanction to the irresponsible driver and to the cause of abuses or accidents involving cyclists, and logically the protection of that safety. But I must also tell Mr Becerra that we are already working on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Somebody else didn't, right? Now that the discussion has ended, we shall first vote with the original text of the proposition of Euskal Group as the Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10th, the contrary, 51; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u107	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the Middle Amendment which the Basque Socialists have signed, EH Collectors, and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-26.u108	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
