ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "A legal project approved by General Preservation of the New Year's 2018th Esunomia Esquimia Esquire." Discipline and final resolution. This will be the method we use to discuss the judgment; first, the first round of the teams will be made, from the 30 minutes to the big, to show the position of the teams on the investigation of their position, yes, and if they have booked the corrections, then what reasons they've had to reserve is 10 minutes to respond. When the debate is over, those who are reserved for divisional corrections will vote together according to groups, and if any team asks for a vote apart from any correction, that's how we'll vote. Then the squares and attachments which receive the summary of the charges of the past will be voted with the changes approved by the committee. As for the corrections presented to the articles, they will first vote for the corrections made by the EH Collecting Groups, which suggest the production of another additional regulations, and another transient regulation. And in conclusion, we vote for the other articles of judgment, attachments, and the title of law. We shall, therefore, proceed to discussion with these remarks. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. As the President has explained to us, today we are going to vote on the opinion of the budgets, of the Budgets Act for the coming year of the Basque Government, which is an opinion which is obviously better than the initial budget which the Basque Government put forward, because it reflects the amendments which the Group of the European People's Party put forward at the beginning of the procedure for this budget. Amendments that reflect the priorities that this group has raised since the beginning of the legislature, including in the last legislature, such as employment, youth employment, special employment centres, the social economy, families, families with children, reconciliation of family and work life, health, with departures for hospitals such as Eibar or Retorto, ambulances, hospital pharmacy, support for associations for the prevention and treatment of diseases. In justice, increase justice free of charge, or that can be made in the palaces of justice care spaces for victims of gender-based violence and their children. In education, the stake for the FP, especially the dual, concerts with educational institutions, support for AMPAs. Or increase the Department of Commerce and Tourism by more than 6% of the initial forecast. Or in infrastructure, with lines 4 and 5 of the metro. Or in culture and sport, especially to favor women's elite basketball teams, or handball teams. And development cooperation... That is, let us say, the priorities that this group has expressed and has always had. But it is clear that it is not because of these amendments that we have reached agreement with the Basque Government that we will have budgets this year next year. We have reached agreement with the Government on these things, yes, but basically on the basis of the tax agreement that we have reached, with the taxation that affects companies, always thinking about job creation and the maintenance of employment. And we understand that it is good that there is stability – and I think it is proving this year, for example – that there is stability in the Basque Country, that there is stability in Spain, economic growth, employment growth... But we also have to say that it is not our budget. And it's not our budget because we don't like, first of all, that current spending increases the way it increases every year, without just control. It is not normal for the only administration that in recent years has not made a self-examination of its institutional framework, of how useful it is and how unhelpful it is, whether this Government has not done so. We do not agree with how the euskera or ETB is financed, or over-financed, or the pseudo-embassies that still operate there, and we do not know exactly why, Mr Lehendakari, that even some groups on this side of the House find excessive what is paid to certain high-ranking officials who jump through these sites. In any case, it is clear that with political stability the economy is beginning to get better, and we must take advantage of it to make the reforms that this country needs, and we have been demanding it for a long time. For us there are three major issues that clearly need to be reformed. One is the family issue. And I am not going to repeat here the age pyramid that we have in this country, because it is devastating and they all know it, and it is clear that we will have to reform the system of support for families with children. The social aid system is clear, and we all recognise that it needs to be reformed, and that reform must therefore come together with the other, the sooner the better, and obviously try to reach the maximum of agreements. And there's another big leg that's failing us a lot, which is education. It is education, and not because we spend little, as some groups say, because we are the autonomous community that spend most on education, but because it does not seem to be giving the results we would all want. And it's not giving them in PISA's results, it's not giving them in understanding results, it's not giving them with the third language or with the foreign language. And it is clear that all this has to be reformed, and that some priorities that have been held in education with the Basque language for so many years will have to be changed, so that the priority is the knowledge that our children acquire in schools in education. And we see, Mr Lehendakari, a certain lack of direction in certain things. And we see a certain lack of direction as we have seen in the tax reform, that each one said one thing and in the end something much better has been done, but we see a certain lack of direction on issues that are very important to us and that we understand that they are important to the Basques. There were three major axes at the beginning of the legislature, and they still exist. Peace and coexistence. We don't understand what the Basque Government is doing... Yes, four, yes, but come on, three important; of two of them I have already spoken. Peace and coexistence, with reports delegitimizing the Basque Government's own actions. We don't understand, we don't understand. It seems right to Mr Lehendakari, we do not understand it at all. We don't understand where you want to go. We don't understand why you want to give arguments from two sides that never existed, because that's how we're not going to get anywhere. We do not understand the perpetual equality of more and more different victims with the victims of ETA terrorism, we do not understand it, and we do not believe that it contributes anything. And there is another issue that is very important, which is the issue of self-government. And on the issue of self-government, Mr Lehendakari, we have a paper, we have a paper in which we have already had five years of paper (because apart from this year we have the four previous ones of the last legislature), and a paper in which stability in the country is very good, but stability alone is not enough for things to go well, and we are seeing it, and we have seen it. In Catalonia they have had a more or less stable government, haven't they?But that didn't mean that things went well, much less, because companies, investors, people, citizens, what they want is also legal and approach guarantees. And, of course, the lack of direction or criterion... It is not the same thing that such a reform of the Statute is making a reform of the Statute or is considering something else! It's not the same. It is not the same as we are being asked to incorporate or not to incorporate the right to independence, because it is not the same. Because you know and we know that stability is very good, but that destabilizes even more. And we think that we are no longer in the equator of the legislature, but we are almost going to start the equator of the legislature, and it is clear that the Basques need certainties where they want to go. We have set our priorities. We have set our priorities. We have marked them in this year's budget, we have marked them in next year's budget, we have told you what they are: it is families, it is the aid system, it is education and it is the reform of the administration. And there they will find us, to reach agreements to make those reforms. Man, to make them in the right direction, not to make any reform. It's not about reform for reform. It's about reforming education to make it better. The aim is to reform support for families so that the purpose they seek is better achieved. And it is about reforming social aid for the same, so that the purpose they have gets better. And we're not talking about cutting anything, we're probably talking about increasing spending, but obviously otherwise and reforming the system. Because the system isn't working well. And if it doesn't work well, now that we have a time of stability, that we have a time of growth, now that we are beginning to have more resources, it seems that the appropriate and relevant thing would be for this government to begin to take note and start to lead these reforms that are necessary for all Basques, but as a country. Among other things, because if we do not, then we will languish little by little, little by little. That is true, with many retirees and many pensioners, with the highest pensions, the highest retirees, but as a country we will have run out of future. Because the future is young people, young people who live and work here, young people who are not prepared, very prepared, but who are working outside. And this government has a plan to attract these young people, I saw the results: in the last two years, two have come (two!), which cost us 50,000 euros. It is clear that this plan is not working either. I mean, we have to reform, we have to reform many things to improve. We're not staring him in the face, we're putting duties on him, Mr. lehendakari. For next year I will wish you a happy year to come and a prosperous new year, but obviously we have to put duties on it, because we want the Basque country to go well, not to go much better. And much better it is that we grow, but that we grow from below, that we grow because our young people can work in the Basque Country, because in the Basque Country jobs are created for the good, the good companies, the industrial ones, because we are able to attract companies, investments, people. And so far that's not what we're getting. And that is why we, Mr Lehendakari, again show you what our priorities are, tell you how we do not agree with what your Government is doing, and again reach out to you to agree and reach agreements that will solve these problems that we believe are important to the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u3	Well, egun on guztioi. Even though others expected another expression, we will stay with the egun on guztioi for the moment. The Socialist Group faces this last debate of the year with the conviction that 2017 has been more fruitful for citizens than some are going to want to move even at this very session. Not because we are going to give green light for the second time in eight months to budgets, because we have been able to generate the conditions to achieve that support, but because those accounts involve fulfilling the mandates that this House has been making and that we have managed to go along with absolutely every single group that makes up it. And it seems to us that this is the first fact that we should highlight: a minority government, capable of building alliances and incorporating into its programme the improvements that have been offered to it since the opposition. This is possible by a substantive strategic decision, and we don't have to go too far to make everyone aware that things could have been different. The first year of last parliamentary term went blank, without budgets or reform proposals; in this we have taken advantage from the zero minute, with a sectorally assessed programme, with well-defined objectives, with an open approach to the pact with all, with two budgets worked in the same year and coming forward, and with all the reform proposals carried forward with the endorsement of broad majority in Parliament. What we are going to do today is have a tool, the budgets, which translates all our political commitments, those of the government and those agreed this year with the opposition into euros. Today we are going to approve accounts that will strengthen our public health, that will increase resources for our schools, that will reach people who need GIR, that will allow us to continue to make it easier for families to rely on these benefits because they find opportunities, that will strengthen the fight against precariousness and labour fraud, that will extend the right to housing, that will cater to more collectives with few resources that cannot pay medical prescriptions or electricity and gas bills. Accounts that open the doors to public and stable employment to 13,500 people. This, this I'm telling you, is what's in the law that we're going to pass today. The accounts that we approve today will not solve all these problems, but they will provide solutions so that next year we will talk about less unemployment, more contributors, less precariousness and more equality. And we believe that citizens should know that we are on a path that socialists are not going to have to go back. That is why we regret what has happened in the processing of these accounts. We understood, although we did not share, that the April precedent certainly responded to a position on the part of some groups to sit on the parliamentary spectrum, but if every week in plenary sessions and committees we are weaving complicitys and getting agreements, either unanimously, up to the fourth part of the issues we discussed, or in so many others we reached agreements with EH Bildu and Podemos, or in a fourth part with the People's Party, we thought we had credible indications to think that everything we agreed, if we looked at it budgetly, opened the door to the same broad will of agreement and that we could meet all of them. But it wasn't like that. Things other than logic and citizen interest have been crossed. We offered the accounts to the three opposition groups without a prioriism. EH Bildu decided from the beginning not to agree, because what they intended was not to bring in positive, but to present a hidden motion of censure to the current Government and to expel us. Elkarrekin Podemos moved us that with his internal process booming, he could not compromise any agreement. And the People's Party took its opportunity to influence: it put on the table 130 amendments to reinforce issues they considered necessary. And this is what gives the ability to compromise: the ability to influence. Something that some group still hasn't internalized. Although it is no less true that each one decides to do with the seats entrusted to him by the citizenry as he sees fit. The reality is that today, Friday, December 22, 2017, as with the 2017 budgets, we have not been offered any alternative proposals. More like upside down. It has been reproduced, both by EH Bildu and by Elkarrekin Podemos, the same pattern, or almost; the same scheme they carried out now seven months ago: to present amendments in bulk, many of them short and stick, of those presented in the previous processing, and with the same powerful and developed foundations (it can be managed better, excessive expenditure, it does not fit the parameters of 2013...) and in the same sense (for some the TAV and the Ertzaintza, and for others the TAV and Chapter II). What's the point of being explained to them as active and passive – and, as a friend of mine would say last night, as peripheral – that the troubling amendments to the financing of VAD are neither real nor feasible? That we know you only use them to make up the totals you say you're mobilizing with your proposals, because we know you understand, or that you understand when you're told they're final income. But, of course, I can already imagine what the problem is: that if the question of the VAD is not presented, then the question of figures and for the press is scarce enough to say that you have an alternative to the model presented to you by the Basque Government. Today they will defend, as was the case in previous budgets, far fewer amendments than they initially tabled as groups. Only a few survive. A few amendments which, said with respect, seem to us to be witnessing. Necessary amendments so that you can build a message today, but that you do not represent an alternative. They don't even bring funding for them. They have been worried about spending, about spending that will allow them to build the discourse today, and not even where we fund it. With regard to the amendments tabled by EH Bildu, as this group has gone from points to points by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and has not even bothered to defend its proposals, I shall wait to hear them in turn, in case they give us any argument that we do not know. But I do want to tell you in this first round that we have to vote with a lot of conviction against those 2.7 million euros that you are committed to that we are going to a consultation with Catalan, to create an office in Romeva style... We believe that we are proud to know that we are in a government that is not going to do illegal things, and that it is a real pride to be able to tell citizens that we are not going to face the chaos that has been caused by their Catalan partners. Both groups also maintain amendments on public employment in education or health. What continues to draw our attention to is the great difference in which some and others quantify certain conditions of dignity. It must have to do with their insistence on income-guarantee income, the amount of which will be increased exactly as the salaries of public employees will. You demand more to make your speech straight, but, as we have also told you more than once, you should look where it governs, in Navarra for example, to then say what we should do to those we govern on other sides. With regard to the plans for regional areas, it is true that it is a concern that we share with the two opposition groups, which today project certain amounts, but they must recognize that these budgets have resources for the actions to be carried out in the regions you mention, and they will also agree with me that they must be receptive to the allocation of resources that is also being made by other institutions to intervene in these regions. I am referring to the agreement that has recently been reached for Enkarterri with the mayors themselves, with an economic injection of 3.7 million euros, or the plans that have been put in place from the Alavesa congress for the Ayala region... And they should also be receptive to what in a short time we will be able to agree among ourselves for the Left Margin and the mining area. And you should remember that EH Bildu here has put forward a proposal to tell us that a shock plan has to be carried out, that when this shock plan has identified needs it will make a timetable, and when it has that timetable it will make the appropriate budgetary applications. This makes it difficult to understand why he first presents one thing and now he presents us with an amendment in which we have not yet been able to work. I leave here these questions relating to the reserved amendments and now move on to another issue. In this process, unlike what we passed to the first of the year to approve the 2017 accounts... At that time, both groups largely took on the improvements that others had made, although they did not exactly coincide with their own. This year, on the other hand, there has been precisely that, a change in strategy. We can have been somewhat more coherent and less complex than EH Bildu in defending and voting on the various amendments in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I think you know why I am saying this. We have been justifying their amendments and their support, abstention or voting against the proposals of the People's Party, and has supported or abstained in a good number of them, 90 in particular. EH Bildu, on the other hand, has chosen the largest, because EH Bildu has felt complicated for many months to share 75% of the amendments submitted to the 2017 budgets with the People's Party. It will probably be so that we do not remind them, so that we do not remind them that others have been able to make improvements that they share, and that they are not able to take that step, that they have now chosen to vote in bloc for all. It was the same as it was to increase the cooperation funds or those of Euskaltzaindia, for EH Bildu the question at this time is who proposes, and not what proposes. They have returned to the bad habits that they already had in the past legislature, when we were rejected all the amendments that we included to fight, for example, against energy poverty, or any issue that was carried out in a budgetary pact. So back to the old tactic, though with the change they can be branded as incoherent. The order was swift and sharp, and at some point in the committee's votes we were able to see it: if the PP puts it, it is voted against, even if it is the same amendment that was tabled last year and that we voted in favour, or an amendment that responds to providing more funding for agreements that then come down to this House, stand before this rostrum, and take as a flag and defend themselves in the parliamentary debate with great ardour. But they came from the PP, and we had to vote no. If it's PP, no and no. Instead, we recognize that Elkarrekin Podemos has measured a little more, it has been more open, although there are some things we have not just understood. But overall, and although we do not share many of their arguments and positions, it is true that we believe that it has been something more consistent with their position. In any case, I'm not going to brag about what this group says as soon as I'm done. I'm not going ahead, I'll wait for the second shift. Although I do want to tell you one thing, it is that the Socialists can tell us something important, or in our view important: we are not in this Parliament, nor in any other institution, nor in order to mark anyone or to test anyone. And you know why? Because we have something more important to do with our seats, with the seats that citizenship entrusts to us, and it is to influence policies, so that there are employment opportunities, to increase investment in research and innovation, so that there are fewer people in unemployment and fewer families who depend on subsidies or benefits, so that we offer public employment opportunities that strengthen our services in health and education. And this is what we will do again today by approving these budgets. We believe that it is good news to approve the fundamental economic instrument for the government, and we believe that it will be better if we get what will continue to be our commitment during 2018, and that you, all of you, are involved in the reforms that we have before us, and that we are able to say that we were part of a legislature in which greater social progress and greater opportunities were achieved for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours. Mr. HERNAN, M. HIDAL: Good morning, everyone. Good. In our case, if we didn't like the draft initial budgets, the truth is that the final result is even less like. The budgets that are approved today thanks to the PNV-PSE-Partido Popular agreement hardly differ from the original project. In fact, if we take account solely of the budgetary changes adopted in the debate on partial amendments, it might seem that the People's Party is in compliance with little in exchange for allowing these budgets to be approved. But this is not the case: the price you have had to pay to the People's Party has been a high price, although the currency of exchange has not been a substantial change in the budget, and even less of its priorities. And in a special way we believe that it has been a high price for the Socialist Party. You have accepted a regressive tax reform, clearly right-wing and deeply anti-social, the tax reform that the employer wanted and that the unions rejected, the tax reform that benefits capital and harms the majority of the people of this country. In order to carry out these budgets they have had to accept an old aspiration of the right, the application of a fiscal policy that further reduces what large companies have to pay for their profits; in short, increase the difference between what they pay for capital income and what they pay for workers. We are talking, therefore, that they will approve these budgets in exchange for kneeling only to those who win the most. And when we say that it is the Socialist Party that has paid the highest price so that these budgets can be approved, we say that because we are convinced that they do not agree with this tax reform. We all know that they welcome you because it is the price that the People's Party has put on you so that you can approve these budgets, and you have agreed to pay the price so that you can remain in government. This is legitimate, we will not say that it is not legitimate; everyone, indeed, makes his or her decisions, and, as is often said, that every stick endures its candle. What is not so legitimate is to deny reality and to pretend to make people believe that they have reached an agreement with the People's Party for a good fiscal reform from the point of view of redistribution of wealth and social justice. They do not want to make us commulgate with mill wheels, we are not faced with budgets agreed in exchange for a progressive tax reform, but on the contrary. EAJren ereduan oinarritutako Aurrekontuen aurrean gaude; hauetan baliabide ekonomiko publikoen zati handi bat erakunde pribatuen zerbitzura jartzen da, kontzertu, azpikontratutako zerbitzu eta adjuukazioen bidez. A budget model with which the People's Party feels comfortable. That is why it has placed the burden of negotiation on fiscal policy and not on the budgets themselves, and finally the People's Party has achieved the piece it was pursuing: a fiscal reform that in a different context the Socialist Party would have rejected. This exchange (tax reform of the People's Party, in exchange for the approval of the PNV budgets) has also led to the rejection of the block of our partial amendments, which focus on employment, gender equality and public services. This exchange has involved the block rejection, by the PNV-PSE-People's Party agreement, of our amendments to push forward the most disadvantaged regions of Euskadi, amendments designed for those areas that currently need special attention. For this we proposed shock plans with significant amounts for areas such as Oarsoaldea, Meatzaldea, Ezkerraldea and Encartaciones, shock plans rejected in front after the tripartite understanding PNV-PSE-People's Party. And all this has been possible because we are seeing more and more forcefully that the model of this government is close to the model of the People's Party, and therefore we also wonder today whether, as it happened a year ago, the Basque Nationalist Party, the majority party in the Basque Government, will in the near future also allow Mariano Rajoy to carry forward the General Budgets of the State, which concerns us. But, in short, today we have come here to oppose these budgets and the price that PNV and PSE have paid to the People's Party to carry them forward: a tax reform of the right. To accept these budgets means to protect a measure against wealth and social justice, that is, to protect an important part of the public prosecutor's views. We certainly do not agree with that, and we will vote against it. And, as I said before, let every stick hold its candle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Subaz, good morning. We said at the conference on December 11 we didn't know how to address either, to the government and to Mr. Urkullu or to the Popular Party and Mr. Alonso. Today, after we have made our meeting at the Thingse Committee on the 13th of December, we are clear: The Popular Party has been the main winner of this agreement signed in the offices. Because today the People's Party imposes its antisocial policies on Euskadi, and it does so because the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi want to. The Basque Nationalist Party wants it to be tied to power. And the PSE really is not that it wants to, but it is that it has no other, but to continue to dilute itself in its pacts with the right. Mrs Mendia said this week, and she said it without blushing, that the PSE is doing left-wing politics. Ask Mrs. Castelo, when she signed the tax rebate to the employer, whether she was doing left-wing policies or not. And, Mrs. Castelo, the strange thing about logic is that you repeatedly agree with the right. However, all this is not just game games. It is the finding of the lack of interest of these three parties in responding to this vast majority of Basques and Basques who do not end up leaving the crisis, who do not come out of unemployment, or who see that their employment does not improve, who lives in regions such as the Margen Izquierda, the Bajo Deba, Aiaraldea or Enkarterri, in which every month some industrial enterprise closes or enters into crisis. Or ask the women of this country, who see how equality policies or anti-machist violence still lack the necessary resources. And this is the reality they don't look at their budgets. And it is that in these budgets there is money to pay tweets at gold price for Mr Azpiazu, but there is no money to improve employment. You spend on marketing and advertising what you lack decency when you deal with the People's Party. And today in this House we are going to adopt budgets that cannot be understood without talking about taxation. And we have to talk about taxation, although it hurts some, because it is incomprehensible that the PNV has handed over Basque fiscal policy to the People's Party, to the party furthest away from the will of Basque citizens. The PNV has agreed with the PP just the opposite of what was being claimed by the Basque Government's own economic adviser this year, but with a progressive majority in Parliament this right-wing pact would not have been given if the Basque Socialist Party had wanted it, because the reality is that today in this House they give the numbers. And there must be modern and cohesive economic and social structures in the territory, trained people and less inequality, and it is for this, and not for the reduction of the employer, for which a good fiscal policy serves. You, who in March said that no, that in no way could a budget be negotiated alongside fiscal policy, do so today when imposed by the People's Party. Where's your word? Where, Mr. Azpiazu? I say this to you: it is in the same place as when I was talking about comprehensive tax reforms or raising the tax burden on large companies. But don't let anyone cheat. In the face of these unfair fiscal adjustments there is a reality, and that is that these weavings are only possible because the PSE wants, because the PSE supports the right. If the PSE wanted it today, the employer would pay the taxes it owes. If the PSE wanted it today, the renters would pay no less taxes today than the Basque workers. And today the question is whether the PSE wants to, whether the PSE is really going to give more value to its agreements with the right than to achieve a fair fiscal policy in this Parliament. Last Thursday I was asking Mrs Mendia and Mrs Castelo in this House whether the PSE is prepared to reach a fiscal agreement with the progressive forces to put an end to this unfair fiscal policy, and, as was to be expected, they kept quiet. And it is that the PSE has been silent for many months, swallowing toads without reching, and, as the saying goes, the one that silent gives. And thanks to that pact today, budgets will be approved that do not generate confidence in the majority of progressive Basques and Basques. Budgets that make it clear that the economic model of the Basque Nationalist Party is equal to the economic model of the People's Party. Budgets that matter to Euskadi the fiscal policies of the People's Party, its austerity policies and its hidden cuts, its favours of certain groups, the abandonment of public services and the transfer of resources from all citizens to the private sector. Faced with this reality, we have made more than 450 partial amendments, worth more than EUR 225 million, aimed at five large blocs. First of all, our commitment to the creation of quality jobs and the reorientation of industrial policy, something that is genuinely, with which it is falling, is urgent. Secondly, to promote the economic development of the regions most affected by the industrial crisis and unemployment; to try to stop that Euskadi from two speeds that his Government's laxity allows. Thirdly, to bring equality policies across all government departments and to strengthen the fight against machist violence, in the face of the obvious upturn in Euskadi. Fourthly, support the public education system, relying on its quality and providing it with sufficient and adequate funding, investing in the improvement and construction of new centres. And fifthly, the bet on social policies that put people in the centre and reverse the cuts made in recent years; among other things, Mr Patxi López's tijeretazos. Look, let me have a very simple exercise, let's compare priorities. Please note that our priorities are those that would have been signed by any Basque citizen. Let's compare. Let us compare ours and those of these PP budgets that you are going to approve today. Let us start with employment and industrial policy. Mr. You say these are the biggest budgets in history, and probably we've paid a little bit about the subject of the Basques. Well, according to EAJ, in the largest budgets in history, the Eplegus and Jobs are the least likely to increase, respectively 0.7% and %4 respectively. Mrs. Gorospe, you won't deny this, will you? Well, tell us really why the slightest promotion of resources is given at work. We don't understand. From the beginning of the crisis to today, 70,000 jobs have been lost. Is the PNV set the goal of recovering the pre-crisis level of employment? No! No! And this is not that I say it, it's that your accounts say it and you say it yourself. Does the PNV know how to tell citizens what the impact it estimates on job creation of these budgets is going to be? Neither. And today we ask him again. We have already had the report before our questions in the Committee on Finance on 6 November. They shut up. They kept quiet because they had no idea what impact this budget will have on employment in our country. But today we are going to ask you again: What really is the impact of this budget in supporting the creation of 15,000 new jobs that you are talking about?, what part does it have to do with the economic cycle, the tailwind to which Mr Azpiazu has repeatedly referred, and what part does it have to do with the budget? Do you take into account in your forecasts that there is a double tendency to destroy jobs and create low-quality jobs, precarious jobs? What kind of employment is going to be recovered in relation to the one destroyed? How many of those 15,000 jobs are going to be fixed and how many temporary jobs? How many are going to be part-time? How many are going to last less than three months? Because, given the weight of the budget in the Basque economy, it is very unclear that this budget has a real impact on that generation of employment that you are talking about. And the reality is that you don't want to take back the lost job as your goal. You, a lot of tweets, a lot of slogans (that is, when we pay the rest at the price of gold), a lot of marketing, a lot of Basque industry, but not a euro of support for La Naval, CEL and Unipapel, Fagor, Ofita and Xey, the Alfa group, Vicrila. I am sure that Mrs Tapia, always the last in the trends of this government, learns of these closures and companies in crisis through twitter, but calm, does not need to pretend outrage with the next closure of an industrial company that catches her by surprise. Look, I want you to explain something to me today. To you, the gentlemen of the PNV, we hear you boast and boast, of your management, of your agreements, of your pacts with the People's Party, that we have the best budget of all history, great, always very great. But I want you to really explain to me why this funding, this rain of hundreds of millions that predict, does not reach the policies of every Basque citizen. Why isn't there money for the job? Why isn't there money for the job inspection? We read this week that this year there has been a 6 % rebound in accidents at work. Thirty-one workers have died in their jobs, but you still do not put the necessary resources into the labour inspection. And Elkarrekin Podemos doesn't say it, says the director of Osalan. These deaths are preventable, and it is a matter of resources, resources that this Government does not put in place, because this Government does not have among its priorities labour sinestrality. Do you really believe, Mrs Mendia and Mrs Castelo, that in Elkarrekin we can support accounts that do not care for the health and life of workers? Do you really believe that? Today Elkarrekin's amendments will be voted on. We can provide resources for the labour inspection, exactly 2 million. And you, are you going to oppose it? Are you going to oppose, PNV, PES and PP? The rain of millions of the Cup, its good management, also does not reach the regions that are going through the worst. We have proposed to ensure equal opportunities for all Basque citizens through the design of territorial development policies that reverse the growing regional differences through shock plans in the regions most affected by unemployment in Euskadi. That would be 35 million euros. And you, once again, have said no. They said no to creating a shock plan in the mining area. They said no to creating a shock plan in Enkarterriak. They said not to create a shock plan on the Left Margin, on Oarsoaldea or on Araialdea. And you said no. And these inequalities between regions are directly related to unemployment rates, to the provision of equipment and infrastructure, to social and economic exclusion, and to the living conditions of citizens. And Basque citizenship must know that you have said not to reverse those situations. But we didn't stay there. We have also proposed an employment plan, we have proposed the creation of a heading to create the Enplegua Martxan employment plan, aimed at creating jobs for people who have exhausted their entitlement to unemployment benefit, worth EUR 32 million. A plan to combat this 95% temporaryity, against 60% part-time work, against these precarious jobs. And you, once again, have said no. And we have proposed to them the creation of a venture capital fund for the entry into the capital of industrial companies that are in difficulty, worth EUR 20 million. And you once again have said no. And we have proposed to them to reorient the erratic economic development policy of their department. We have made amendments worth more than EUR 100 million. And you know what you've said, gentlemen of the government? I can answer it with fewer characters than a tweet from before: you have said no. And with these answers today it is a toast to the sun to hear this government talk about reducing unemployment or precariousness or the increasingly critical situation in different regions of Euskadi. But it is that the manna promised by the PNV in the form of rain of millions of the Cup has also not reached the policies of equality. Look, I know that in Elkarrekin We have made ambitious proposals in terms of equality and the fight against macho violence, but it is that yours is more than scarring: it is miserable. The other day in the debate on the amendments to the whole, Mrs Gorospe tried to explain to us with an empty sermon all that her Government was doing in this area, but, apart from the flagrant inconsistencies it had incurred, she could not explain how it was possible that this year they planned to spend less than last year, exactly one million euros less: from 22, to 21 million. This is what the PNV does: a lot of noise and few nuts; a lot of inauguration, a lot of slogans, but few real resources to fight against inequality between women and men, few resources to end the macho violence. And even last day, Mr. Urkullu, you explained to us that it wasn't one of the Government's targets that ended with sexist violence. But M. Aburto told us also that a few months ago he didn't know what to do with this disease. But we believe that there is a quantum leap from ignorance, and from want of purpose. And how is it that, with that million-dollar budget that they boast of, they devote even less to equality? Explain it to us, please. Although I believe that if they have not done so this year, I doubt that Mrs Gorospe will be able to clarify something today, no matter how much rabbits get out of the joke. But if they care so much about equality between men and women, as they say, do they know what they can do, better than take pictures at openings or whatever? To vote in favour of our amendments, to make this government, instead of a miserable 0.11% of the total budget, allocate at least 0.4 % of the total to these policies. And I'm also telling you that we don't settle for that, we don't settle for 0.4%. It's just a first step. Our proposal, as you will know, is the gradual increase in these items until they represent 1% of the total budget. But, Mrs Gorospe, it is not only a quantitative leap in this area, it is also necessary to make a qualitative leap, to promote that all the departments of the Basque Government take a real commitment to equality and the eradication of Machist violence. And that also requires specific matches in each of the departments, as we have done in Elkarrekin Podemos. But do you know once again what you are going to vote for this proposal that demands the feminist movement? They're going to vote no. And, yes, then they will tell us again how important it is for the PNV and the government. That is why they have voted against increasing by EUR 25 million the resources earmarked for equality and the fight against machist violence. Another area to which the oasis of its millionaire Cup negotiations and the largest budgets of history has not reached is education. Although, well, I correct: to public education, because to the private one, go if it has arrived to them, and to the schools of Opus I do not even tell them! In the Department of Education we are faced with a racist budget, which does not meet the needs of the Basque education system. A budget that strengthens educational concerts and the privatization of education to the detriment of public schools; a budget that contributes to equalising educational networks, when the public network is the only option that contributes to equal opportunities and the construction of democratic, solidarity and responsible coexistence. And what is happening in the Basque Country is not happening in the Spanish State or in the rest of the European Union. If we set Finland as an example, that country that we so much like to look at, one hundred percent of education is of public ownership. And you with these budgets reinforce the existence of two parallel educational systems, two educational networks that walk at two speeds, and also at two different speeds. You, in this account so much of the People's Party, so right, coincidences of life, have increased the funding of educational concerts. Who could have imagined it, right? Do you know how much? Well, 12 million euros, that's nothing. And that is the curious way this government has to support public schools, increasing year after year the funding of private and subsidized schools. Together we place the wager for the consistency of Podemos, and in this respect all our amendments, all of them, without exception, are led to strengthen the public school, to the ventilation of public property, together at Podemos, as well as the parties which support the government, and the Poptular party, are clear: public money, public school. And, in this way, we have created various budget items, among which I would like to highlight today those intended for the construction of new educational centres in Infantile and Primary and Secondary, and for the implementation of large-scale works worth 12 million euros, those which you dedicated to the concerts. And here are the differences between what Mrs Mendia considers to be doing left-wing politics and what we and we consider. We, instead of applauding that 12 million euros be given to the private school, propose them for the public school. But, frankly, you have the opportunity to vote in favour of our amendment, it is in your hand. But as far as this is concerned, today the PNV and the PSE support the People's Party to be given to private schools, chosen by finger, an additional €6 million that comes out of the pocket of all Basques and Basques. But this does not end here, it is even more serious: this government allocates EUR 13 million to six private schools of Opus Dei, schools that, if it were little, far from training in equality, segregate by sex (children on the one hand, girls on the other). Zorionak, EAJ is PSE! Zorionak! Let's compare, let's compare the 21 million against macho violence, compared to the 13 million for six Opus schools. Really, talking about two speeds sometimes gets short. We could talk quietly about private schools that go in a formula 1, in front of a public education that goes in a family car to which this government also takes away gasoline so that it cannot compete. But that is not the case, because you have not only voted against the fight for equality between men and women, the strengthening of the Basque public education network, the creation of jobs or a reorientation of our industrial policy, no. You have also voted against our amendment so that the budget intended to put an end to the systematic non-compliance with one of our laws can go ahead, that of development cooperation. When some people are committed to calling these budgets the largest in history, PNV and PSE vote against providing 0.7 % solidarity with impoverished peoples. But you have also voted not to reverse the GIR cut of your beloved Patxi López. The 2012 PSE cuts in the GIR continue, although the PNV says that we are no longer in crisis. They follow the cuts of Patxi López and follow the cuts of Mr Urkullu of the same year, when he disconnected the GIR of the SMI. And those budgets of the lollipop country are not enough to comply with another law of this Parliament. Today the millionaire manna of the Cup is not enough to comply with Law 18/2008, for income guarantee and social inclusion. But do you know why these millions have come to you, apart from the tweets we talk about at the price of gold? To continue to increase what is spent on advisors and senior officials. For advisors and senior officials there is no longer a crisis, but, my friend, for social policies, education and employment, there you continue to keep the people of this country in crisis. And it is that you are also so cynical that it seems to you crazy that in Elkarrekin we can propose a reduction of 15% of the high offices of this government. Do you know what minimum wage these high positions have? 60,000 euros! For them there are no cuts; for the humbler people, the one who is having a bad time, the one who has precarious wages or poverty pensions, for those there are tightnesses. For those who raise 5,000 euros a month, for those not, for those there are no cuts, but for those who do not reach 650, for those yes. And I'll tell you more. Do you know how many finger grants, at the request of the People's Party, this government is going to give? 160 of the 180 submitted by them are nominative grants, which are given because they fall sympathetic to the PP. And do you know how much those finger grants add up? EUR 18 million. There's nothing! And the things you're making today, they put two things on the table: and secondly, that with our amendments it has been evident that other social budgets were possible. And these are not the budgets that a majority of Basques and Basques want. In the face of health and public education protests, 12 million euros are donated to private schools and hospitals. At a time when the macho violence is resuming, the sum earmarked for it is reduced by EUR 1 million. At a time when our industry is going through a serious crisis and where employment is more precarious than ever, this government is simply passing word. And today these budgets do not respond to 43% of Basques and Basques who are mainly concerned about unemployment, nor do they respond to 40% of Basques and Basques who are concerned about the quality of employment. Nor does it respond to 22% of Basques and Basques concerned about social cuts, nor to 21% concerned about the economic situation. Today these budgets do not help 73% of Basques and Basques who believe that Euskadi has not come out of the crisis, nor will it change the opinion of 79% of Basques and Basques who believe that things are not better. That's right, to that minority who did emerge from the crisis and are doing well these budgets seem like a party, the party organized by the People's Party and sponsored by the PNV and the PSE. But most Basque society is neither expected nor expected, because it has simply not been invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u8	Good morning. Today, just a few hours before independence and the Republic of Catalonia gained another clear victory, today is a good day to talk about budgets, Basque government budgets endorsed by the parties of 155, those trying to liquidate independence in Catalonia. I'm good people, democratic, committed, determined, hard-working. I'm people who gave me everything to make what seemed impossible possible, and your path will never walk alone. Zuekin gaude, Katalunia. Zorionak! Atzo, gaur eta bihar independence age erepublika garage so far. Today we have the last discussion about the 2018 year ago. This is the second budget we've discussed in this legislation. For a year the government has brought in two budgets, two budgets of the same line, with the same privations, with the same problems in the tickets, those who look at reality with the same pink glasses, and consequently have the same protections, and two budgets which will have the same ill consequences in the street. We know today that these budgets will be accepted-PNV, PSE, and PP agreed on. I mean, Bizkai, Gipulia, and the inhabitants of Arbatua would have to secure public services for the inhabitants of Agrabe, the affairs of Agrabe, the affairs of fun which is a sign of auto-organization, and which, in the course of years, have been limited and refuted by his own hands and faculties, and has been in the hands of the two parties in Spain who have had the government of the Spanish government, PNVk. And to say the opposite is to lack the truth, ladies and gentlemen, because the parties of 155 against self-government in Catalonia are the same parties that deny the development of self-government here. Because the 155 parties that liquidate (which is going to be that not) independence in Catalonia, the 155 parties that say Catalonia is a sick country and that must be disinfected, those parties with which the PNV agrees here but says that it does not speak of current budgets in Madrid, are the ones that have cut the Basque self-government, are the ones that have drawn and limited by the back door many of the skills transferred. They are the ones who systematically deny the transfer of thirty-seven outstanding competencies, failing to comply with their own laws, because they themselves often say that we already live well enough to be bound by those things. These budgets, therefore, are the budgets of conformism, conservatism, of follow-up to the State, because they are supported by those who impose labour reforms against workers, those who liquidate their own pension system, those who systematically fail to comply with their stability agreements in Europe but are able to impose their limits on the others, those who have thousands of dependents neglected because social policy is not their priority. Once again, they will not respond to the needs of Basque society, not in terms of protection, employment or cohesion. These budgets are more than the same, budgets to continue with actions that are not proving very effective either. And the saddest thing is that they're going to leave people unattended again, once again they're not going to stop the bleeding from closures of companies we've suffered, and again they're going to take steps towards the tax model of a state that's proven to be failed, instead of doing it toward models of advanced countries. And all this, this is your choice, not only because the companions you're taking are willing to do it, but because you don't even have any limits to it and you're also protecting it. You protect state policies. The limits of deficit, limits of debts, or expense, are not descended from heaven, nor are you protected by them, since the Spanish State determines them according to their wants, and you protect them in Madrid. Then, as always, difference is brought out in the square, but this dependence limits the possibility of strengthening our development, and so you are responsible for these limitations, which are a great obstacle to making presides. The three of you are responsible for the want of property in these matters, because you have wished to do so, because you have renounced the proper form of taxes which this people require, and have followed the example of the state. These budgets are a matter of passing the year only once more, and again they are merely a tramite for the government, and only for the purpose of keeping it there; something to do in any case. It is the question of a government in a state where we are wandering, because, hearing his words, it seemed as if he cared not to be able to get out of the world with whom we believe in the strong public service, and in strengthening the chances of this people, or with those who maintain social restrictions and unscrupulous economic patterns, but always do it with them. And this is not the power of making compacts, no, this is a non-community of principle, want of principle, in the direction we have seen in the policy of taxation. Instead of using tax policy for the benefit of society, you have not used public services to feed, but used PP's protection as a change in the budget. You've gone backwards, against what the chief physician said, the way against the acquisition of resources required by the budget. Of course I didn't expect anything more from your right policy. And all this time, PSE's role has been so great that the party who gives a left-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-by-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-by-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-up part of the whole thing was a great role of PSE all this, and he's become the passionate defender of the new liberal measures. And the worst part is that you're not backing, liberal, you're promoting, the worst part is that you've got the face to tell society it's for its own good. The patrician has finally applauded the change you've agreed with PP, because at last they've succeeded in paying less taxes, but you're able to say that the companies will still pay more without blushing. You agree with the party in which taxes are regarded as its chief symbol, who are destructive to public policy, but you always want to hide all this behind the refrain, such as "Auzola" and "persons target." And not just that. On this occasion, in full devoutness of his words, budgetary negotiations and fiscal policy have been put into the same envelope. Something that seemed unthinkable, which seemed almost sacrilege on his part, this time, to agree with the PP, has been sewing and singing. Another clear example of this Government's inconsistency. Look, in the 2017 budget we told Mr Azpiazu clearly that that, that budget, was born lashed. Wounded by a revenue shortfall as a result of a tax counter-reform designed by the most powerful classes and technicians in Confebask. But they decided to wait. They decided to wait without articulating any action, even though they regretted the lack of resources. We told them that it was another lost year, and that their agreement with the PP was an omen of more lost years, because already then the People's Party made it clear that the main point of its agreement was fiscal policy and, therefore, nothing good was expected of that. And we weren't wrong. And today we have again a budget that, although the government has classified it as "the biggest budget the Basque government has ever counted on", beyond marketing is not like to launch rockets, or, as Mr Azpiazu would say, it does not give much joy. And with these fellow travellers you have a few sad years left, counselor, because obviously budgets with almost 200 million less available than in 2009, so they don't even cover the expenses and investments that were then covered. Because budgets with only 290 million more than in the 2017 financial year are continuous budgets. And so, for example, we find ourselves in Education with almost 110 million fewer than in 2009. And then some still have the face of being shocked and criticizing the mobilizations of the educational world for the defense of public education and the working conditions of the staff. You repeat the mantra of budgetary sufficiency, but you contradict yourselves when you tell us, "There is no money for more." They announce the good news of the end of the crisis with the great macroeconomic data of GDP, of growth, but they forget that this does not reach most of the households in this country. Because of this crisis and its policies, those policies that have fueled this society to become more and more unequal. Is this the model of country that they want us to reach? I don't know what they're gonna say. Today there are more than 128,000 people unemployed, and, with GDP rates similar to 2008, there are still more..., there are 70,000 people less busy than before the crisis. 93 % of contracts signed in this Autonomous Community are temporary. 32% of people who work do so with eventual work. And 25% of working people have part-time jobs. So this precariousness of work causes poor workers, poor workers who have to resort to GIR, because they are one in five recipients of GIR. And a faithful reflection of the worst wage conditions and precariousness is the statistics of the average net income received by households, which, according to the INE survey (I hope they will believe it), amounted in 2016 to 34,054 euros: more than 2,000 euros less than in 2008. Good road. And this situation, ladies and gentlemen, is not the result of chance, it is not the result of the economic crisis alone, but of the public policies that you decide and implement, of the wrong policies that you have implemented in the crisis, and you insist on them. Because it is you who shield yourselves in the crisis to protect precariousness, lower wages and cuts in social policies; ultimately, inequality. It is you, those of the Trimony, who force the over fifty-fives to arrive with a minimum pension at their retirement after having worked half-life, because their labor reforms have been responsible for expelling them from the labour market. It is you who invented the form of fixed discontinuous contracts, partial contracts, almost free redundancies, so that big entrepreneurs will gain more and more. In short, it is you who return to covert slavery, those of the marriage of convenience, with lovers in other places who continue to fill their wallet. And it is you who are the "there is no more", while you lower taxes to those you most have, or you give more than 42 billion euros to those who put up the banking system. We've often repeated that we have to give a quaantitative leap as soon as we're concerned with the subpoenas of protection, because the challenges are enormous: the age of society, the care of care, the surrender of youth, the management of multiplicity, the maintenance of society, and the strength of the struggle against poverty, the production of real inclusium and social economy, and the exercise of social employment-but there is nothing to be seen in these presidencys. So society is in a worse condition than crisis, there are more unemployed, more companies are closing, more wages are smaller, and more labouring. That is to say, today's Basque society has more need than 2009, and for all this you present a budget of less useful money than 2009 under the refrain to guarantee public policies. It's not credible. And this is what has been said at the United States of Euscalia from the beginning, that these accounts do not at all conform to their end, because they do not, as I have said before, maintain the welfare of the public axis, and the future of this people, because they are not assured by a political choice of their revenues, and because the money which is in it is not directed to those parts which are necessary. The health department, or the education, or the Department of Eplegu and the Police Society, is not enough to have a few million more. Why? Because all that is short. Because the needs are so much bigger. In fact, you spend money on other things, which are not necessarily necessary, but this is because your axis is obviously different. We, on the other hand, in the presence of these budgets, not only proclaiming the necessity of a deep tax-form, but further expenditure and investment distributions, have suggested that other issues of presidency can be possible with what is present, and that the columns of a balanced economic development should be established. Propositions on the axis of social conviction, measures to make the future of this country more prosperous, and, after all, proposals made directly in the eyes of the company. That's why we've filed eight80 fractional corrections, moving 222 million euros, and developing jobs, industry, and development policies in the years that are engaged in another $68 million. All these corrections have principally four axes; In order to strengthen the manufacturing policy which is so necessary to this people, the foundation for the manufacturing Promotum, to promote myrgetic transitions and green employments, to rouse those areas which have most suffered the effects of the crisis (for we have in common with Endorries, or Highs, or so many others), and to really promote research and development in this country. In the field of education, public education is to create jobs that are essential to the improvement and strength of the media, and to limit the provisionalness, to improve the infrastructure, and in general to improve the system finances between children and college. It belongs to health, to restore the waste of employment for the last few years, and to reduce the list of waiting. And that it belongs to social protection, to give a suitable answer to social distresses, to reduce long-continued unemployment, or, for instance, to complete pensions. These, as has been said, are the main axis of the axis, but we do not forget to strengthen the independence which this state-making and the people require so much to look forward to, in the sphere of equality of society, the strength of the measures which still remain, to make a long course, or to give a strong progress in the co-workership of the development which is so essential, to the level of the nation, to begin with, if it be but few, we must take a rent, access, in the field of access, or even to the Housing Act; This is, briefly, the improvement rates introduced by the Basque People to the Press of Flakes, the corporate proposals for the benefit of the public. But you five, you yourselves, in case, divide a great deal of money between the patricians, among the associations of your country, or between the townships which govern you directly. There's money for that. PNV-PSE and PP, the Blessed Trinity, settles, so we don't have a chance to go any further in this Basque Country. Because this budget, once again, will come out thanks to the People's Party. Because in these budgets, once again, the balances between the PNV and the PSE (i.e. between the councils of one or the other) have not been touched. Because basically what PP has touched is global credit, that is, money that didn't have a definite destination. Because they refold the interests of Basque citizenship to the arbitrary negotiation of each Christmas; to write the letter to the Magi, located this time already without complexes in the Palace of the East, while the Olentzero continues to draw coal with the sweat of his forehead. And once again they all take their share, because they distribute money to the foundations of their political parties, to related associations and to those municipalities where they govern or aspire to it. There were already many of these items in the budget presented by the Government, as a result of these balances that I have mentioned between the PNV and the PSE, but those of the People's Party are now being added. Today, you see the amendments that you have adopted as good for society in general, reinforcing social policies, job creation and the development of the country. But what they do not say is that more than 90% of these amendments are nominative. In other words, they are not to strengthen the Government's direct public policies, but to distribute money among associations, regional houses or private educational institutions, however commendable the work of many of them. What they do not say today is that the foundation of the PP is pocketed almost 200,000 euros, in addition to what is already pocketed by the foundations of the PNV, the PES too, in nominative direct subsidies. And they do not say that they allocate more than 6 million to municipalities or administrative boards where the People's Party governs, even resulting in one of these also receiving a good pinch from the foreign budgets of the Alaws, also through amendments of the People's Party. That is, more than 20% (20%!) of the 30 million of the People's Party, of the amendments of the People's Party, are for municipalities where the People's Party governs, and without taking into account in this percentage the million euros that you allocate to Vitoria. It's a good thing you're ruling in very few places. Good luck! And we could go on, we could go on and on: amendments that do not fall within any of the many plans that this government has put forward, amendments that do not fall within the strategies of the departments of this government, that do not even fall within the framework of a strategy, for example, for employment, that could have been put forward by the People's Party. But no, they are amendments that follow only the logic of distributing money in accordance with the dictates of the party with which the budgets have been agreed. They don't care whether it's for issues that are outside the jurisdiction of this government, or whether this looks more like the Christmas lottery draw than a budget. That doesn't matter to you. Today they will take the budgets forward, budgets supported by those of 155, by those who not only liquidate governments in Catalonia (although then the return comes, of course), but do not hesitate to make warnings to navigators, as Minister Zoido recently did and his "The 155 is in force for all", when asked only for skills without transfer. These, gentlemen of the Government, are your support. With these are you going to build a better country, an advanced country? Indeed, let me doubt it, because there are at least 155 reasons to build an alternative block to the Madrid blockade, to that of the sticks on 1 October in Catalonia, and above all a different model in view of the indifference with which it is intended to tackle the problems of the middle class and the most disadvantaged. Today, you're going to go out with the PSE and the PP, who deny the national point, but you're comfortable there, separating the money from here and there, turning back to the central character of public politics, offering the solutions too late and in a partial way, hiding the privations with the propaganda lips. But that's right, you've got issues and your words about stability that's so important that it'll be a year's word. It is certain that to praise stability when the effects of crisis are still firm in the society of Esscal, when the economy of this people is still to be accompanied by the most highly developed nations, is to extenuate stillness, to maintain its existence. But in that, yes, that's what you're comfortable with. And, waiting for the PP to play the lottery again, you close the loop that, passing through Barcelona, through Catalonia, also drowns our people; a thread that is sewed with repression from Genoa street and that, passing through the prisons, comes with much laziness (too laziness) to these budgets. Because we need a different model, we need them to abandon 155, and come once and for all to build a better country, a country for all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs. Pinedo, I'm going to follow up from the little one, but one question: but that every day you are working in this legislation, or are you working in the arts of the people? Do you present for the benefit of the people in the legislature, and do you accept them, or do you not? Yeah? You, too? We're building Euskadi, you too? And if you're going to make Euskakia in any of the initiatives you're presenting and accepting here, how can it be possible to agree with the two parties of 155 a week? Isn't that popular? O Sea, if you agree with them, there is no vice; but if we agree, are they alive? Then what is it? Do ye justify all sins? Is that it? Is it supposed to be done with you to give it to you? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u11	Please, quiet, everybody, don't answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u12	No, rhetorician questions... Mrs. Pindo will have a chance to answer. But how can one make the same thing, some living, and others not? "Ah, we are in popular matters! It's a good thing we're here to do something about this town! "But what respect is it, doing the same thing! And you invented an adjective... You've noticed, klaro. This has often been proposed to you by our various spokesmen. You do it yesterday, but every week, week, weekly, weekly, deals with Social Party and Popular Party. And it's supposed to be for Euskade, the Jest Party and the Ukullus and the government made by EAJ and PSE as well as the compacts of the treaty. What's going on? Klaro, EH is Collecting. The sin is white. That's having a lot of jet! What you can't, what you can't, is judge the same action as vice when it's done by the political adversary, and as virtue when you do it yourself. Because there is EH Bildu, and then we have already whitened all sins. You have to be honest, and other things you do will be able to do. And then have ye devised: Intersectal. What you're doing is the counture, and what we do is the structure. And ya esta. O sera, you have an opportunity to say, "Nos aperrit et un poco elcorion." We'll find out, nos inventamos un adjetiv, y ya esta." Hombre! And what speeches! If you think that this is true, be consistent and go on, but every day, because the other is false, it is false. Mr. Damborenea, I don't think he's... Then I'll say the same thing, and when he comes, I'll answer him. Hernandez jauna, Bollain jauna, egun on. Those who said it wasn't you, Bollain. In that speech of "they said not to strengthen equality policies", "they said not to strengthen policies of positive action in disadvantaged regions", "they said not to promote cooperation"..., you, you have said no. Yes, yes, yes! Because the possibility of having reached an agreement with the government has also been given to you. Undoubtedly, the Government has submitted a budget of EUR 11,486.4 million consistent with its government programme. For us, what you say in a "continuist" way, for us, is a virtue, because it is to give continuity to a government program that began to materialize when the government was formed. And you have had a chance to come to an agreement, with that capacity you could have to support the budget, and you have not. You have not done so because you have not been interested, but you could have done so, and those who will have to explain it will be you. "Claro, you think an un accerdo con partado, menos resistatio en Eusudi, Acómo puede seres esto..." "'Sí, es verdad, nsotros necesatamos un voto, o una abstención. Una Abstención, I sitquiera tenían que haber apoyado los presupuestos. If we had your abscession, you would have had a chance to strengthen the policy of equality with 30 million, in order to strengthen the policies of different countries. But you didn't do that. And if the Poptular Party got 10% of the vote, you got 14% and something else. Klaro, yes, and we got 37% and more than you did. So if you despise so much on the side of four points by the Poptular Party, what does it mean that we should take them to the marginal position all the places where they've achieved less points than we do? I told you the other day: "Hua de stereotypes, Huya de stereotypes y fíjes en los hazos." People, associations, must be examined by what they do, not by what they say. To come here, and make a speech, is very easy; Educacion a dos ritmos. I plan an exercise. I'm sure that most of us in this Chamber have contributed to the Esscal educational system. Exercise: Who has learned in public school and who has studied it? Si hubia realmente un system de educion a dos ritmos, se notaría la diferencia... or is there really an education of quality, public and executive, we have a system which has been developed by us, and which gives occasion to all the people, and which advances in equality and the same rhythm? Let us examine and examine it, not only discourse, for if it were so obvious, it would be guessed. Well, Tapia, don't catch him by surprise. What do you want me to say? What do you want me to say? I mean, you're not gonna get caught by surprise at all, but maybe you can get caught by surprise a lot of things. Because the truth is that if it is any action against the Government you may be able to see, but in another infinity of activities, actions, proposals, initiatives, days that are being organized throughout the activity and life of this country, it is very difficult to see them in many of them. In many of them it is very difficult to see them, if not an action expressly prepared to scourge the Basque Government. You don't take part in many of the initiatives that plan different corporate representatives in the Eukong, you don't participate in a lot of enterprises that come from society. This week there's been a forum to examine the direction of the refugees, and there's been a thousand societies that have arranged 30th anniversary, and we don't see you anywhere. What's a por las comarcas desfavorecidas doing? I think that's what you've done most of your efforts, here and in education. And in education, I'll tell you: You said 12 million dollars went to the firm, but you don't say he's got 51,4 million in advance. And besides that, in December, I'm sure you've accepted some more 50 million more in the last state of government, and that's where they've gone to education. At 51,4 million, for 22,9 soles, 4 investments, 1,8 research, 1,9 professions for the functional expense of the Hezics, and in navigation for 50 million colleges, scholarships, etc., these are data. In the zoos you've mentioned, and the actions you plan on your initiative for the left, editors, Oarsoldian, Aura, years and years of initiative and investment have been made, and you've got to do more. They're regionals with a lot of potentiality and from different departments, from the various departments in the departments of the farms, so many of the town departments have started and will continue to do all that effort, and if we had the chance of you, it would be fine. It's very bad to answer you, because everything you're saying is that everything that you've been going to say about the rest of the discussions that he's been having since his former project here, and that's why I suggest you read carefully on November 6th, 7 a.m., the answers were given to your questions and all the answers that were sent to you. I suggest that you read all the answers that were given you in the discussion of the whole line of justice, and you will have an answer with all that. As for the rest, we were told by the head of Tapia in the Program, for instance, that it was only up to this time that the European Union accepted the support of the countries, and that a special license was demanded, and that in other countries where there was a special access to the work, there was a special access to the enterprise, and that they would have certain conditions, and that with great enterprises they would be able to carry on with small corporations and rhymes. Esan zizuen industry-plana onartu her, age badakizue zuek on which was onartu her. To support SMEs, in particular firms in difficulty, drive tractor and strategic projects, bet by R+D+i, for business internationalisation, consolidate the R+D+i commitment, for business internationalisation, create an ecosystem that promotes competitiveness for people's training and training, for Industry 4.0. 25 million dollars have been accepted for that, and other $1,000 dollars will be able to run financial tools. What strategy do you have in order to respond to companies during crisis? The chief physician himself made a show on the board for that purpose, and there's all the details about the strategy. You plan it, and maintain that creating a fund can be supported by companies who are in trouble, and you know that this is an illegal initiative and would be considered as the support of the state. You plan and plan on Economic Development and the Department of Sub-Squares, and, well, you plan on your own initiatives to boost a museum, an industrial mousté, and, clarro, you know what's going on? Mrs. Tapia, and those who work in her department and her department, no museum, they want the museum of industry to live in industry, a living industry, and they direct their efforts. That's it. Don't think of museums, think of the rebirth. It takes a new industry, and it takes life, and that's why they make all their efforts. We've just met with the plan which has been brought to the market between different institutions. A thousand enterprises have been made, a thousand, and one must follow a thousand, because all these regions need to be encouraged and made what they were, and be all that their choices admit of. And we have all the confidence in it, and if we all were to unite, it would be easier, and we have the opportunity of making a part of the community, in the work which is created there in the legislature, in order that it may be so with all of us. We've got to make our own dees ourselves. We leave it to the question of society to the exclusion and neglect of the subject. I told you the other day: all the indifferent and contrary associations of poverty admit that in the last decades of Eukadin, and that the programme for social protection now established, has been accepted in the higher degree of Europe, in the highest degree, to be exalted against social neglect. And all our anarchists are very good in poverty, in the corners of society, and in the sphere of inequality. I told you about education. In health, Mr. Uria is with you, he will tell you, and besides, he likes to mention it to you, O sera, every time I come here: We are in the highest degree among the 15 States of the European Union, a task which is made only with respect to Marge and not only with money in the health system of the inhabitants of 1.773. We've said so many times, but you think it's possible to say, Mrs. Pinedo, that this isn't making any effort in the social police? The effort of this town in 1990, 20,7 million, and 2018 by 518 million euros. If you pass 20 million to 518 million, how can you talk about burnouts? That question doesn't make any sense in defending it. I can't understand how you plan jobs, but there have been 45,000 employments in the last few years. There's still a lot left, and there's plenty to do to get the job started. And if the budget attempt at the Society and Employment Department has generally been able to increase 0.7, it has been raised above 2% of jobs and active policies, and that the chief physician himself told you on the board. What do you mean by saying that the whole number of documents are worth together in the form of Podemos and EH Biltian responses? How can you get more in the tax collection? Well, it's not just because he's not just the nominal guy's ass, and he's been told over and over again. Several other initiatives have been taken, and when they make decisions, the collection will be raised, including the compensation of those bases imponibles ne causevas, and the expenditure of the prosecution. And what will be accomplished with all this is that a lot of local companies don't use such damages or compensations until now, to be a lower nominal type. And others will have to pay more. And what you say will be seen. We will not here steal, when this is established we shall see the results of the collection, and there we shall see what truth and what reality are. And when you say, Mrs. Pinedo, we'd say what was going to happen with the collection and the results wouldn't be good. Hombre! If the results aren't good, the collection of money isn't bad, more than 13%, and that's where it came from, according to the last day in the Basque Council, that's the last month, for instance, that's the ability to pay over 40 million-per-payers for extra payment from the officials, and there's been a chance. For instance, in order to correct 15 million dollars under Itelbet, to finance ETS trains... And that's where people go, and then they're all for the community's benefit, they're going to be above 39 million to fund trains. And in so many and so many politics... In the health world there will be money to make investments in the Osage, 5 million; We'll have over 20 million, too, for the housing. In college, in education, for children's studios, for scholarships... You don't even mention all this because you don't want to talk about it. The budget, only the muscle, you said the chief physician said, and this budget has only the muscle. And that's a spot of strength in this budget, with muscle, almost no fat here, it's a strong budget. Mr. Damborena, you mentioned that this administration restructuring would be necessary. In the first time of the law, the decisions were made, and he grew thinner. And even in the budget, all that fat was taken away and the muscle stopped. It has stopped at the President's instigation for research and innovations and cooperation, 75% of the year ascent, 85%, 90% of the health department for membership and pharmaceutical. More than 80% of their incomes and incomes in society and employment is an additional rent and a financial policy for the housing. It's going to 76% of personal security. He's got a muscle affair, he's got nothing else. And the progress, what I have said, is, that in human matters there is no effort: 20 million 90, 518 million in 2018. In the health system, pharmaceutical and Osar, the increase or increase in the last five years has been added to 13%.3%. And I'll read what you say sometimes. As soon as Mrs. d'Embricum was in the Board of Education, it was almost impossible to deny that there had been more than 54 million, and that there had been over 51 million more this year, I believe, and that the attempt to make cannot be denied; and, moreover, it must be confessed that what has been done when things are to be said. I think it must be confessed, too, that the payment of revenues which are recorded at the University Plan was made in a different manner, and it must be confessed that the amount of money has been made to progress in 2017. And also to pay off the historical debt of Christmas, 2012, for the production of supplementary rewards. And in the same line, we considered it necessary, and in the 2018 Preservations, we see that the Instung Year Plan has recovered. Uria jaunaren berbak aipatu nituen. Gaur Bakarrik esango dut hasten zeal "What pasta has in your hands, Mr. Counsellor, and well, it's a satisfaction." If it's a satisfaction, it'll be because it's not bad. Eta Casanova yellow was aipatu izango dut. Casanova jaunari Garapen Ekonomikoko Batzordean esaten nion éta orduko horretan lehen sektorean, primary sector, first sector, hor egon zen gorabeheratxo bat, and zen zein evibili behar genuine berba. Eta esaten zen: "And if we go to spending on departmental programs, which have three main sections, we see that the first sector – edo lehenengo sektorea – has 137 million, compared to the 324 industry, when in the proportion of employment and the GDP that each generates it is not evident what these numbers reflect." And he said: "There is a plus of support for the primary sector, and it must also be so. The reading to be made of this is that it has been chronized and it does not seem that we can get out of this spiral. We continue in the spiral of support and subsidies." I should like to tie two things together with this: On the one hand, I'm sure that this laugh is trying to prevent all differences in various departments ( both in sectors and with respect to people as well as in the country). It is a budget that aims to reach and achieve a balance and positively support, with positive actions, those sectors, people and territories that have the greatest difficulties in relation to others. For socio-economic reasons, for gender reasons, for reasons of functional diversity, for various reasons, priority support is needed. And a second reflection, and that goes to you, who have not dared to support the budget even though they could have strengthened those policies that are so important to you. Because none of you, neither EH Bildu nor Elkarrekin Podemos, has tabled amendments in such a way as to change the orientation of the budgets. Not at all. You have tabled more or less some amendments which you are doing to increase expenditure on health, education, social policies, disadvantaged areas, on equal terms... Yes, Mrs. Arana, but they could have done it. And you, too, in other politics. It would be another thing if you had been brave enough to achieve it. Eta lotu gura dut Casanovak posestzen two horrekin idea: chronification. You are at risk of chronifying yourself in the opposition. You can chronify yourself, and that's a very important risk. At some point you will have to make the decision whether you want to take one more step and be consistent with what you say, or enter the spiral of opposition and cronify yourself in that role. Hori zuen was a izango da. Mr. Damborenea (before I was going to start with you), more than anything three ideas. As far as decisions are concerned, it is clear that these are not their budgets. You've made it clear many times. And your amendments are not all of our liking either. But we have an agreement with you and we will be loyal, as you will be loyal to our agreement. Therefore, there are areas of discrepancy that are absolutely reasonable and are, therefore, the hairs in the catera that we put here whenever we discuss. Someday we're going to be bald, so much about hair. [[Barres]] But I would like to make two comments in relation to other areas that you have mentioned. One, it meant that it is a government with a lack of direction, and it meant the sphere of peace and coexistence, you said. They don't understand. Perhaps, if their role were an active role, and they participated and did so by participating, by contributing, by listening, by speaking, by contributing, they would understand it better, and they could also contribute and it would be much better. But that is our task, that of the Basque Parliament. Do not hold the Basque Government responsible for what is our responsibility. And a second area too, that of self-government. The Government had already done what it had to do, and it was doing the reports that had been required of it since the presentation. He has sent them to us, and it is we who have to move forward. Let's see if it will now turn out that the government has to purge for all the penalties, all the suspensions that we might have in your case! Because that has to be very comfortable, there always has to be a culprit. Just as it is because of our Catholic tradition that we need a guilty person always, and also because of our selfish nature as humans, that guilty person is always someone outside of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. We'll go back to our shifts when we answer. Euscala Popular's representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u14	Mrs Gorospe, I am going to try not to get any more hair, but I will have to tell you that I have not seen this thinning in the Basque public sector. Neither I nor my group. When we talk about a lack of direction... I'm going to ask you a question (then whether you want to answer it or not): do you think it's consistent to say – what you just said in the gallery – that you could agree with us, with Bildu, with Podemos, with everyone, because it doesn't matter? I mean, do we really present the same country projects for people? Is he indifferent? I don't think so, I don't think so. We believe that no, and that is a demonstration, in my view, of a lack of direction. I mean, if it was apparently enough to abstain from Bildu or Podemos or whatever, do they care what they say or what they don't say in the amendments? Well, I think that's where we have a problem, or we can have a problem. And to Podemos I'm going to say two very simple things. Let's see, tax reform. First, this of confusing capital income with corporation tax, wrong. And second, that benefits big companies... listen, believe them, not us. Believe them! What did they say? That benefits the SMEs the agreement we have reached. But they say it, entrepreneurs say it. Don't believe us, believe them. Why would they cheat on him? It doesn't make any sense! But I'll remind you... Seven months ago, when we agreed with the Government, what we agreed was that, if a tax reform came (because tax reform was being talked about, not because tax reform was under way), we wanted to participate in and agree on that tax reform. And the counselor knows that. Six months ago, I had to go out and defend him from things they said about him. And this time I leave it, it is impossible to defend the counselor, because, of course, they put in his mouth even things that he has not said. But, well, I'm not the one who's gonna have to go out and defend him. But, Mr Bollain, the concerted network and the public network. Look at you (from Opus or not from Opus, it gives me absolutely the same), for your information, about 50% of the boys and girls in this country are in the public and the concerted. For your information, the Basques spent our taxes twice as much on financing the public as the concerted, in these budgets. Just for your information. But it's just that I've come to understand that apparently the concerted one goes like a shot and teaches phenomenal, and the public goes fatal. Hey, maybe, following your argument, we'd all have to go to the concert! First, we'd save money, and it'd be much better. And, second, I'm going to tell you one thing, because you make us in education a speech and in health you make us the opposite. Because you in health are presenting us with amendments for Osakidetza to take on private clinics. Or not? Hey, so what do we play? What is good in health is not good in education, or what system or model are they proposing, or, depending on what it touches in each case, say one thing and say the opposite? Yes, yes, yes! Nominal grants. Look, we could all agree here that there are no nominative grants in the budgets, and that no group is submitting nominative grant amendments. We could make that deal. But don't tell me what it is that we present nominative subsidies, that you also present them, these gentlemen also present them... By the way, in some of us we agree with you and with you, and you approved most of them six months ago. So, don't make me this nominative subsidy trap, because I can tell you up to three that we agree with you, and these gentlemen too. For example in Euskaltzaindia, which I have not mentioned before. So, let's see if we stop cheating on the loner. Now, if you want, let's play that, but then we delete all the nominatives that already come in the budget. Mrs Pinedo, I see you a little obsessed with 155 and congratulating the Catalans. I, if you like, will congratulate the Basques. I think that the Basques have had a much better year than the Catalans, which has been much better for us, and what we hope is that next year we will also have a better year than the Catalans. Look, I think it's gonna be easy, that we're doing better than the Catalans. Now, you make comparisons of the 2009 budget with this... anyway. As some of us were there... That 2009 budget, in which the tax collection fell by 20%, had to authorize the Basque government debt of 2 billion to pay the officials, if I remember correctly... I mean, compare those figures from that budget (with their vote against, by the way, and from their group)..., compare that budget with these, because it's like... Anyway. Of course, in this budget the largest item, more than 1.3 billion, is the payment of the debt; in that budget the payment of the debt I do not know if it reached 200 million. That's where I was walking; I don't remember well, but that's where I was. Of course, but that's what this is about. Of that and of 2010, and of 2011, and of 2012, and of 2013... So, let's not cheat on the lonesome. And I agree with you that one of the most worrying things is the net income of families. You tell us "They're smaller than in 2008", and I have to give you the reason. And that responds to two things: the economic crisis, and the rise of the IRPF that was made in 2013. Of course, of course, and to the increase of the IRPF that was made in 2013. So – I told you yesterday – of course, do you want Basque families to have more disposable income? We're going to lower the IRPF tax, so they'll have more disposable income! Because disposable income comes because you earn more, or because you pay less and you spend less. And that's an easy measure. I told her yesterday to her group, I told her to Podemos, and of course to us on that track they'll find us. It is possible until we reach agreement on this matter. This from the Trimony that you told us I haven't finished understanding. I don't know if it's because some of us are very traditional or classic... And the comparison of the Magic Kings and the Olentzero... To you I don't know; to me the Magi have always brought me gifts. The Christmas lottery has never touched me; therefore, do not equip me. And they've ever brought coal. I don't know if Olentzero took it out or didn't take it out with the sweat on his forehead, the coal the Magi brought in. But in any case, well, it looks like the Olentzero is in luck and has found a girlfriend this year. So, let's congratulate Olentzero. And to all of you a Merry Christmas, and that next year will be better than this for all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u16	Mr. Antón Damborenea, you can still touch us! I was informed by my classmates that the fat guy hasn't come out yet. I mean, this year we still have a chance. This is what happens when we talk about tax lightly in a rostrum: Mr Damborenea proposes to permanently lower taxes because it is his solution, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu have nothing but a big brush in the tax discourse, and, as much as Mrs Gorospe and I strive to explain to you over and over again the question of the changes that are going to be put in place in fiscal matters for the 2018 financial year, it seems that we do not have a preaching between you. So, I had thought about it, as I was a little bit of a spoon, I say, "Hey, I'm going to do it a little bit in plan... the Basque." That is to say, I bet 100 euros now, you and Mrs Pinedo, that for the company tax, with the reform to be carried out, you will have more revenue to continue to support the public education, health and social protection services of the Basque Government. If you accept me the bet, when you come down, that comes after me, you accept me, and we will have enough patience to wait for the collection and see how that tax behaves. Because you have only wanted to look at one thing, which is what interests you for that burning speech that comes to us here today, in which you liked it or like it more (more to Mrs Pinedo than to you) to talk about political issues than economic issues or action programmes. In that sense – the Lehendakari told him, the Finance Advisor told him, Mrs Gorospe told him and I told him many times – don't just talk about the nominal type. Don't just talk about the nominal type, unless you recognize me here too, in the gallery, that you have no idea how corporate tax works, and that all you can talk about is what comes in the press. Well, man, try to have a bigger press fan that you can look at, because, in the end, it's easy to get down here and talk about some issues. Anyway, I'm going to tell you one thing that I told you the other day, and you're already inwardizing it. I don't know if you know what the word "agreement" means. I mean, you can have a proposal, wonderful proposal, come on, totally wrapped in cellophane and with brightness, but that's your proposal. How many votes do you have? How many? Who do you need to agree on your proposal with? He needs to be able to agree. And they have no capacity to agree and therefore have no capacity to influence. That is what is happening to you, that is the parrot in which you are at this moment since you arrived in the Basque Parliament. Word goes out when it's necessary to get wet. And your road map, as your newly elected secretary general said very well, is changing a bit depending on what others are doing. Man, road maps have to be things that are marked with very concrete objectives and very firm convictions, that I at the moment do not see them. And the truth is that I don't like to talk about ignorance, populism or cynicism in some of the interventions that are made or in some of the issues that are made, but to say that there is not a euro of support in the Naval of Sestao seems to me to be a supine ignorance or cynicism that is not forgivable in a public gallery. Because you know perfectly well, you and the colleagues who have around you (if not, let them tell you), that the Basque Government has explained to us perfectly – and not only the Basque Government, but also the unions who appeared on the company committee – that they have the support of the Basque Government to obtain the signing of the contracts of the ships for the construction, because it endorses those contracts, and without that funding provided by the Basque Government they would not be able to close the contracts. Find out a little bit before you talk. And that is why, as much as I say here that they present a shock plan, and I have also read the proposal that we have made from Elkarrekin Podemos for the Left Margen, and here we are also talking about that we are now beginning a process of citizen participation (let us see if at some point, in addition to taking part, we have concrete measures), you know perfectly well, because we have also been told, Mrs Gorospe has told you, that there are already departures and that work is being done from different departments in all the regions. To want to obviate it is simply because you work with fat brush. And the budget, of course, is not a toast to the sun. It's not a toast to the sun. And I'm not going to cross you another bet, but I told you in my first speech that next year we're coming here and we're going to have less unemployment, and that's going to be an objective fact. And that's not a toast to the sun, that's a fact that will be objective. Therefore, when you give me that Manichean speech from the Labour Inspectorate, when we have explained to you, and you tell me that from the Basque Government and from the Department of Labour and Justice we do not have a clear objective in the fight against accidents at work, it is also not knowing what has been said to you and what has been explained to you in the Committee on Economic Affairs. And it is that at the moment there are thirty-eight inspectors, the highest figure in the history of the Basque inspection; that we have thirteen subinspectors, and that at the moment the primary objective of the Basque Government in those budgets that we have presented is the creation of six places of subinspector – I will be reading it slowly – for the prevention of occupational risks, so that, at the moment, we can contribute what we can from the Basque Government to prevent accidents at work with death. Therefore, it is demagogue and liar to read half questions that you say say some charges, because in politics I believe that everything is not worth writing a speech or justifying the immobility or inability to agree that you have at this time. I mean, it's hard for you to be able to convince, or build trust, or gain the confidence of other groups from that lack of coherence. And there's one thing that really bothers me, too. It bothers me to know, and I would like you to answer me why someone with responsibility in the government, who manages, with executive powers, cannot charge the same as you and I do in this Parliament. Why their salary is correct, and the salary of a director of the Basque Government is excessive. If we charge the same! I believe that my work, my work, has to be remunerated, and that of a director has to be remunerated, and yours has to be remunerated, as it is. Therefore, do not demagogue on this issue either, because other parties have already tried to do so with this issue, so that not everyone can have the capacity to stand and defend citizens in a House. Well, with regard to Mrs Leire Pinedo, who intervened on behalf of EH Bildu, then, the truth, I'm not surprised either. I mean, we started in Catalan...! Come on, if you could have done it any other way you would have left me totally shocked, and what it costs me today..., come on, react. What we were talking about here is the content of the budgets, and you have not talked about some issues. Where do you fund what you propose? From where? This year it has not been necessary to explain either the TAV or the Ertzaintza. Of course, I already understand that they do not, because, in that desire to take everything away from what the police smell (i.e., they take everything away), come on, they have taken us away (and you have Mrs. Jone Goirizelaia next to you), they have taken us away or they have intended to say that we have removed the departures of the telematic protection systems for victims of gender violence. And you also say that it is an excessive amount that this government devotes to the protection of people. You know that the protection of persons, or the departure of protection of persons, has to do with escorts to women victims also of gender-based violence. So, of course, it's very good to go out to this rostrum, to ask us all to make a lot of efforts (the Department of Justice, the Department of Security...), and then you go and, hello!, to remove the dough, that we are much more interested in an international office to explain that we want independence, and for that 2 million. To protect the victims, 1,100,000 less. Well, look, we don't share it, and I'm also glad I don't share it. I told you on my first shift that I would be very proud to vote against some of the amendments that you had tabled. Look, never, except in the country of never ever where you are living, there will be a budget that has no limit. You've ruled, you know what that means. The money comes this far; last year it's here, this year it's here. There's more to this year than last year, yes. Have more resources been provided for education? Have more resources been provided for health care? Have more resources been allocated for social protection? Because at least they'll have to recognize me! I will have to admit that this year in the autonomous community there is more money earmarked for those issues than we also think is a priority, and there is more money because this Parliament is going to approve a budget with the influence that the Socialist Party has, no matter how much it bothers someone. I know, you told me that there were matters that were not essential, that had made amendments in matters that were not essential. And that's where you came in, not only, as I told you, with the bortxa, but also with the subject of juvenile centers, which did not need to have security, nor in the courts... By the way, we were also brushing up the departure of the Basque Police Academy for training, that training that we then demanded, because we are told that victims should not be revictimized, and then we demanded that the Ertzaintza attend correctly. But we take away the money or the resources necessary for them to receive that training. Well, that's coherence. You have said that these are matters that are not essential, are not necessary for this society, but that there are others that are necessary, and you have put them. And it has been in particular – I told you so – 3.7 million for the independence obsessions of the Neverland Neverwhere you like to live. Well, as you will see, it's going to be hard for us to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Gorospe, not continuist: regressive. Restrictive as its tax reform carried out ad hoc for the employer. And where are we? We're on the street, while others are in openings taking pictures. And how much is it spent? He has quoted, I think, my fellow Uria: our problem is how much is spent and where it is spent. Because, while you favour outsourcing and privatization, we bet on the contrary, we bet on reducing it. Mrs. Castelo, who is not here, said about the labour inspectors. It is true that this year the number of subinspectors is increasing, but we are still below the ratio recommended by the ILO. We have twice the number, we should double the number of labour inspectors to the ILO ratio. And the truth is, you listen to the PSE, and whatever you say, you know what they're gonna answer. And, honestly, it is you who have a problem of coherence. It is you who say one thing and do the opposite, not us. It is you who sign covenants of shame. And it's not that it's us, you recognize it yourself. Mrs. Mendia calls it "a pact without prejudice," confusing prejudices with scruples and principles. I said it's his problem. Well, I was wrong. It's the problem of the people who voted for your program. It is the problem of a social majority to which their pacts are detrimental. It's the problem with that Eibar marriage we were talking about. In which there were no tax cuts to employers, no funding to Opus schools, no transfer of resources from public education to private, no looking elsewhere when the Basque industry is in crisis, no refusing to give greater resources to the fight against macho violence. But that's what they're gonna do. And Mrs Gorospe was talking about the Basque industry, and I have something to say to her: we not only propose to boost the museum of industry; we also set up a fund for companies in difficulty, those companies for which the government has no response and lets them fall. And they say it's illegal to help them, but it's fake. We have repeatedly asked Mrs Tapia for legal reports on this, and she has not given us any, because they do not exist, Mrs Tapia. They don't exist. And you talk about coherence in the PSE. We must have courage, between what Mr Patxi López said four years ago about taxation in this very rostrum, and what you have signed today. Because there's an abyss. A neoliberal abyss as well. But, look, we have already told you these days: they have our hand stretched out to reach agreements. They have their hands stretched out, but not to reach any agreement or anything. They have spread it to make progressive policies alongside the rest of the progressive forces. And it's your decision, not ours. As is yours, PNV and PES, and not Elkarrekin Podemos, the responsibility for their pacts. It is you who have been negotiating this agreement for months, as many months as it has been since Mr Rementaria said in May this year that the company tax would be lowered. Mrs Gorospe says – if I may, with a paternalistic tone – that we have to learn to agree as you do, as the PNV does; that we have to prioritize four things in exchange for supporting them. But you think you're talking to the PES, please! You have a problem, because you do as Rajoy: blame Podemos to cover up your shameful pacts with a corrupt, centralist, antisocial and neoliberal People's Party. But it's his thing, really. Look, today the problem is the budgets in which the only historical thing is not their size; it is that the investment in relation to GDP in public education is in historical minima, while spending on advisors and high-ranking positions is in maximum, while finger subsidies are given, while advertising and political marketing are paid what is not invested in social policies. And that is the problem of these budgets, which are bad, which are really bad. Bad for that 73% Basques and Basques who believe that Euskadi has not come out of the crisis, and bad for that 79% Basques and Basques who believe that things are not going better. And they're fantastic for the minority that's doing well. They are good for the six schools of Opus (they give earrings of joy), they are good for private health, they are good for large companies with profits, they will pay even less taxes than they pay today. Mrs Gorospe, gentlemen of the PNV, these accounts give 13 million to six Opus schools, while there are public centres, as we said last week – these are the exclusive competence of this government – in which today we are teaching in barracks. And yes, I know it's hard to say, but for us it's even harder to see how this government's zero bet on public school leaves boys and girls studying in barracks. To give two examples, it is now being taught in barracks in Zipiriñe and Aldaialde. Is that the Euskadi of the 21st century you want? Not ours. And do you know that in the institute of San Adrian the parking lot has become a courtyard? Do you know that there are humidity in the classrooms in Miribilla's school? Do you know that in Donostia children who study in Jakintza sleep the nap between humidity and travel ten minutes on foot to go to the dining room or to go to the gym? How is it possible that, with the millionth of which they boast with the quota, our public education continues like this? How is it possible that, with the best funding from the State, there is no priority for public education? How is it possible that you are facing a hard strike by public education workers and you give 12 million euros more to private schools? I tell you, it's a priority issue, Mrs Gorospe. It's a problem for whom you govern. And they do it for private schools, they do it for the concerted network. And that's the problem. And of course we need more resources, but we must start by managing well those we have today. If these are the biggest budgets in the history of Euskadi, how is it possible that there is no money to reverse the cuts in the RGI? Because there is no compliance with Law 18/2008, there are cuts. How is it possible that there is no money to improve the fight against macho violence, and that the departure is reduced by 1 million? What's the money being spent on, Mrs. Gorospe? In tweets at the price of gold, in high offices and advisors, to give a finger to the nominative subsidies that the PP dictates, to transfer it to education and private health, in megalomaniac works. And you know the worst of all, now Mrs. Castelo and Mrs. Mendia? Which, by chance of fate, are neither... Oh, excuse me! You know what the worst thing is? For – Mrs. Mendia, I mean you – today you are voting against your conscience. Today you vote no to our amendments, not because you do not share them, not because you think they are bad. Today you are voting against because you have agreed with the People's Party that the amendments of the rest of the opposition, whatever they may be, are to reverse the cutback in the fight against macho violence and its accounts, even if it is to improve the lives of many Basques and Basques. The problem is that you are hostages of the People's Party, of your pacts with the People's Party. Today you are voting not because our amendments are wrong, but because it is the payment that the People's Party has demanded of you. Or are you going to deny it? Are you going to deny it, Mrs. Mendia? Is Mrs. Castelo going to deny it? I don't think so. And that's called incoherence. And now you have the arrests to tell us that the problem we have in Elkarrekin We can. Mrs Castelo has said that our amendments are not an alternative, and she has stressed that the People's Party has been able to use its capacity to influence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, where is your alternative?, where is your ability to influence? With three departments, the total budget is only 3.9%. Only 3.9% in three departments of the total budget. You are neither an alternative nor a power to influence this Government, because you have given up being an alternative. You have given up being an alternative to influencing a real progressive alternative. You write your election program with a red pen, but always, you always end up signing agreements with a blue pen, in the name of a misunderstood responsibility: the blue of labor reforms, the blue of 135, the blue of 155, the blue of "no is no", the blue of tax rebates, the blue of cuts in the RGI, the blue of cuts in the fight against macho violence. In short, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are always with the blue pen with which you draw and with which you mark the line of your red lines. And you're wrong, you're wrong, because the problem is on your bench, the problem is that you've lost course. But there you are on your way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u20	Bai. The truth is that listening to Mr Damborenea, the one with whom you have signed a budget agreement, saying things like that the government has a lack of direction, and the incoherence of your government, the truth is that one likes him happy. For once, Mr Damborenea, something you have said can cheer me up. Because you sign with those who tell you that you have no direction, because you sign with those who tell you that your model is not going to you. And, indeed, you still come here to tell them that you do not like all your amendments either. But all to the butxaca. All to the butxaca. In relation to this budget to you once again, as I said earlier, it gave you the same, or PP or EH Bildu. You go out to the town square and you call the auction, or in your case we could talk about a public procurement: opening of folds, auction, and the one who pulls the lowest bid takes the cat to the water. And that's what you do, that's what you do. No principles, no direction, no coherence, nothing like that. Just auction, that's what the Basque Nationalist Party does with budgets, drop whoever falls. If we have to put fiscal reform in the middle of it or a few things, then let's put it in, what's the big deal? Totally, everything is good for the convent, as that would say. "Men, Encon quiéncta el PNV el futuro de este país?" Who? You tell us the consistencys and consistencys. Who? Do you know who? With PP and PSE, you're having sex with them. With them. With those who deny the identity of our people. With them you pacify the life of this people and the next years of this people. With them. Today you agree here the Basque budgets, tomorrow you will agree the Madrid budgets with 99% odds, you have agreed the rule of spending, at six months you say that the rule of spending was not entirely good... Consistency? Man, please! Man, please! That it was you who gave it to the green button in the spending rule, you gave it to the green button in the spending rule in the Congress of Deputies, and now you come to tell us that it's maybe not quite right! Man, please! It is you who have endorsed in Madrid all the policies of the People's Party that you have been interested in for your own interests, of your party. And, of course, when Mr Damborenea speaks of disposable income and lowering taxes, he obviously already knows that we are going to meet. Of course, you had already made sure that the salaries were so miserable, so miserable, that the disposable income of the majority of the citizens of this country did not even come to live a dignified life. But that's what you want. As you have well remembered, a thinner public sector. And you deal with them, you constantly deal with them. The Socialist Party... Well, well, it looks like the spokesperson doesn't really want to hear the answers. Ask questions... Well, he'll stay that way, because he obviously doesn't care. He is not interested, because all he has been interested in here today is whitening and making the amendments of the People's Party good. That is, the Socialist Party once again saying that what the People's Party puts on the table is the best, and the best. This is what the Socialist Party has come to do here today. The Socialist Party, which in 15 days "where I said Diego, I say Diego", as I said the other day, and missed its fiscal proposal; the Socialist Party, which has, as Mr Bollain has rightly said, less than 4% of the budget of this Basque Government, has the little shame of saying that the others do not change the direction of the budget with these amendments. Come on, man! With less than 4%? Come on! Come on! Yeah, yeah. If you can do it, because you in that 4% have a lot of budget that you know is chapter I. So, don't come to me with lessons. And the rest of the questions that Mrs Castelo has asked me will obviously remain in the dark, because Mrs Castelo has no interest, and the truth is that I do not have much interest in talking to her either, because she obviously does not want to listen to us. I've listened to her carefully, which she hasn't done. You talk about the funding, and we say that this government doesn't make any effort in social politics. I didn't say that, I didn't say that. I said it's not enough. It's not enough to do when this government says we're over the crisis, that we get out of the crisis, and when you're still keeping records in social politics. Yes, because the Basque Nationalist Party maintains the cuts in social policies imposed by the Socialist Party, which apparently gives the left patina to the policies of this government. The Basque Nationalist Party denies last year the increase in income guarantee income by complying with the law; that is, the Basque Nationalist Party is the one who fails to comply with the income guarantee income law. It is the Basque Nationalist Party, knowingly, but it does so because obviously that is its way of seeing life. That's why he's got his fellow travellers, that's why they do such wonderful campaigns in some deputations by putting people who get social assistance in the picket box. That's the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, it's done me a lot... Begira, kurioso egin zait. Gaur zuk hemen esan duzu "The Budget has muscle", and I still remember Councilman Azpiazu saying "The Budget has touched bone". [[Barres]] I mean, let's see, does he have muscle, or has he touched bone? The reality is he's touched bone. The reality is that this budget still has less money available than in 2009. Mr Damborenea, money available, eh!, that I had already taken care to subtract the debt, that you know very well that I know how to do it. You have less money available than in 2009, and you still come here to tell people that you are covering their social needs, health care, education. But if they spend less money than in 2009 on any of them, and society has a lot more needs today than in 2009! But you guys keep going. As one of my colleagues says, "You pull forward, pull forward, you'll get there." Pull forward. And that's how you guys keep going, "Shoot ahead." That's his strategy. And in that strategy you find these travel companions, those travel companions with whom you know you will never build a better country for this country, because they are not interested, because they do not want it, because it is not your project, because your project is another. His project is Spain. Its unique and exclusive project is Spain. And it is with them that you agree the budgets, it is with them that you agree the structural policies of this country, it is with them that you agree the future of this country. With those who only believe in the project of Spain, with those of 155. Yeah, 155. I'm not obsessed, it's just that you guys yesterday, 155... Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Barres]] Yes, Your Honor, yes, yes, yes. You, those who say that thanks to you, well, the stability of this country is much better and we live better than the Catalans... You do live better than your Catalan companions. That's right! [[Barres]] You do, Mr. Damborenea. Don't compare your smile to Mr. Albiol's. Man, for God's sake! Don't you go compare! But that's it. The Basque people do not live better because you say so, because their stability is the stability of not moving, their stability is the stability of not moving forward, their stability is that of denying the right of this people to aspire to be something else. That's your model of stability, that's what you want, and these ladies and gentlemen give it to you on a tray, because these ladies and gentlemen are comfortable playing two, three, four, five euros in that market. That is the problem of this country, and that is what we have. And, already ending, sincerely today, the day after the defeat of 155 – of course, as Mr Zoido said, there will probably be 155 for a while, because, of course, as they do not like the results, for, well, we will move forward – today that great rule of law, that great rule of law today again imputes people. He again blames people for doing politics. Impute Artur Mas, Marta Rovira, Anna Gabriel. That great rule of law, that great rule of law, which apparently guarantees the self-government of this country. Mariner's screen, eh! Mariner's screen! Miren, EH Collect, offered to make a real alternative in this town, to take a really different route in this town. And you know, the day before Egibar talked about it, you know, we've made an offer on the table, but you've been comfortable since 155. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u22	Too much flame, lack of sweetness. [[Barres]] You've got one left, you've got one left. Norekin paktatu zituen Aurrekontuak EH Bilduren garai laburtxo horretan Gipuzkoako Aldundian? Oh, yeah, sure! Again, again the moral alchemy characteristic of EH Bildu! [[Barres]] It's moral alchemy. They have a tremendous ability: they transmut vices into virtues and virtues into vices, depending on who the active subject is. I mean, if it's me or my group, virtue, if the other groups do the same, vice. Moral alchemists. A surprising skill. "That's already been done," and it's got so much pancha left. [[Barres]] Of course, it's just, I mean, benetan... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u23	Please be quiet, please... Please, everyone. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u24	... el 155 was yesterday, and it was also last week, and did you make a deal with it or not? God, it's always the same thing again! What's going on?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u25	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u26	What's going on? You know what happens? Your problem isn't 155, your problem is the Jest Party of the South, and your problem is President Urkullu, and your problem is Euské. That's your problem, and as long as you can't go beyond it, Ahí, Casanova, the Dado vueltas la spiral de la oposiciión. Ahí, um van a estar, cronificides en la oposión. It's your decision. But things aren't... We're making bets, making a proposition, and we're making ya esta. That's what you do, that's what you do! Y, entre todo y nada, algo es mucho, señor Bollain. Algo es mucho. And yes, I will answer you, Mr.Damborenea, when you say, "I'm saying that you have no direction because you don't care about one another." You responded, you said, "These budgets are not by far our budgets." They are not their budgets, and you know it and recognize it, and you recognized it here in the whole debate. Because you know what the situation is and what the margin of negotiation each of you has, and what the rules of the political game are in a budget negotiation. And anyone who has some knowledge of budgetary technique knows what the margin is and that there is a financial limitation in order to reach agreements, and that these agreements have a limit. And you know what the impact of that limit is on the budget. And he says, "I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, as a group I'm going to take advantage of it. I will be able to say that I give stability, that I favor the advancement of a people, and I will also strengthen some policies that are decisive to me." And in some of them we are delighted, when they support measures in employment, health, family... There are some of the amendments that you propose that we do not like, and you are going to abstain from a budget where there are many items that you do not like, and you have mentioned some of them. And it will be the same for you, but it must be brave in the political sphere and in order to say... The people, the majority of the people, have chosen a different government, another president, that there may be other parties, which are chosen by the heads of the departments, and each of them in his own domain, by which political institutions will be established. And if you were lucky enough to take advantage of what might be given you, for I believe that the majority is of the highest value of this government, and in this sense all of you have the opportunity to strengthen the policys you like. And you lose the chance! Pierden la portundad! Bollain, how do you lose the chance, if it's so necessary for you to strengthen that multi-year-old plan of the school under which I'm already working? Take advantage of it, force the policy of equality, take advantage of it! So you, too, in order to strengthen the proposals for cooperation, to strengthen the proposal for employment. And it's a lot of money, you know how many things you can do? And you may strengthen what you want. But in that sense, we don't have it, but it's not that we don't have it. No, not at all. It's the presidency that came from 11.486, and it's obvious what the economy and financial expression of the government program is. It allows you to put numbers in the letter for the year, and it allows you to use some policies to push them. And you made the shift again. Why? Why? Because you're still incapable of conducting so many proposals to the Jestric Party. Because your problem is what I repeat to him, he's not 155, he's the Jelt Party of the West. And every week, every week, every week, every week, every week, every week, you sign the initiatives and the media with socialists and the Poptular Party. And you have no shame to accuse someone else that it is so. Things are what they are. Well, I've had some facts here. the public offers of work, when you say you say 13500, will be released in the last three months, the RGIs, 3.389 perceptors less, fewer people in unemployment, industrial activity has gone up in October 2,6%. Economics will go up by 2018, 2,5, and so on and so on. The final year's evaluation was made here, in answer to a question Mr. Alonsso had asked, for a whole year's balance. This is a country that progresses. And finally, I'll use it again... Another spokesman, Madame Kortja's wife, greeted him in some way at the Presidency committee, and said that she would like to be more frequent in our discourses, or to use us in the conduct of President Urkullu, to speak more deeply and with dignity of the welfare and welfare of the people. I believe in politics, in all the realms of life, but the narrative in politics is of great importance, as it is the days that are, well, the sweetness must prevail, and I shall use Christmas words from your model and your permission, Mr. President, which you have sent us. To leave no one behind, to give essential importance to the support of the planet, to transform prosperity, economy, to make all humans rich. Peace and effective institutions, to build open and conscientious, and to build a new world-wide alliance. Let's not let 2018 bother us with the main matter of 2030 schedules. Happy new year, all members of our legislative society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The discussion is over and we'll go into the vote. Please, each one of you in his place, check out the tickets, everybody who's doing well, because we're gonna start. We'll vote first together for the subsidies reserved by the Podemos team. We'll make two teams here. First, we vote for correction. We can vote.(stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; 10, contrary, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u28	So the correction is not accepted. Next, together with the Podemos, we will vote for all the other amendments which have been retained in the articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u29	So the corrections have been rejected. Then we'll vote for EH Collectations reserved for the distributions. There'll be three sets here. Number one, correction 1.496. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the opponents 17; the opponents, 55; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u30	So the correction is not accepted. In the second group, we vote 1.492, 1.493, 1.491, 1.325 and 1.497 corrections. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 17; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u31	So they weren't approved. And in the third group, we vote for all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u32	So they weren't approved. They are placed to vote with the summary boxes and appendages of expenses, and the changes approved by the party on the committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of the east, 37; counters, 27; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u33	So they've been accepted. The EH Collecting Groups are placed at the votes of 1.535 and 1.534 corrections stored in the articles of the law, respectively one new additional and another transient regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u34	So they weren't approved. We will vote together with the articles of judgment and the title of law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of the east, 37; counters, 27; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-22.u35	Hence it is agreed that 2018 of the Escanomical Autonomy. the law of the General Presidency for the year. So since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. I wish you good Christmas, and I wish you all good New Year's Eve. It was twelve o'clock in the morning and eighteen.
