ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I demand to know 15 and 16th. that the spots were left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mien Josun Gorosune Elerkano Eerkano, the members of the staff of the United States, made to the president of the budget." Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. President, good morning. Our question today is about the budgetary priorities of the Executive that you lead. On December 20, 20, New Year's Eve, the government Council has accepted economic policies for the 2017 Prejugation Council. Here, among others, the growth of the Esscal economy was said to anticipate the existence of 2,3 for this year, to fix the course of employment. We also have to note that in 2016, 16,500 jobs have been completed during the whole job. On the other hand, and on the income, next week, on February 13th, the Basque Council will be meeting. On the one hand, we'll know the final data of the 2016 funding, and we'll see which rounds of cash will be printed in 2017. On the other hand, we learned from the chief physician that the purpose of the defense was also agreed, and that what was originally intended to be the 1st is from the 2017, and that the end of debt, which was to be 13,5, would be 14,7. As for the expenditures, we have had all the heads of the departments which have been here with you since January 19 to 31th, in the legislature, and have known what are the stages of the strategic order of their departments, and have been enabled to demand their explanations, and to know better than well what their intentions are. You, President, were engaged to present the budget project for the first months of this year. And we have learned that you foresee to accept in the Council of Government, which is to be done on the 21st of February, and consequently to arrive at this legislature on February 23rd. By the way, Mr. President, we'd be able to find out what the priorities of this novel are. I'm grateful for the answer you'll give me first.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Yes, Mrs. Gorospe, the bill of the budget. That's our plan. Our priority is to guarantee and increase the basic services of well-being, and to promote growth, to ensure the exercise of employment and to improve the conditions of employment. The closing of the last year, as you said, was positive. Euscalal economy has grown up for the third year and new jobs have been created. We've had growth for 12 months. To maintain this tendency is a key to the main goal of this legislation, namely, to have unemployment below 10%, and to improve the conditions of contract by improving the quality of employment. Looking at this new legislation, it is our priority to maintain it. In order to achieve this, we will accept a new plan, a total of 8.600 million dollars in the next four years. Through this new plan, we must unite forces to strengthen the economy and promote new employments. As we have often said, it is the best policy of society to raise and create employment. On the other hand, we must provide for our co-operation, in order to respond to the needs of the euscal society, and to ensure the tolerable growth of future growth. We have a strategy for that, and, looking at 2020 years, we want to place it in the index of human development on the first positions of the world. We have closed the financial year 2016 with a 3.1% growth and net job creation. On the 13th, as you said, Mrs Gorospe, the meeting of the Basque Finance Council will approve the estimates for this year, and on this basis the Governing Council will adopt the draft budget law on 21 February. That's our intention. We share one priority: more and better employment, lower the unemployment rate below 10%, and offer 20,000 young people a first job experience. To achieve this, we will adopt a new framework programme for employment and economic recovery. It will have €8.6 billion by 2020. This is the most ambitious and comprehensive programme that has been developed in Euskadi in support of sustainable growth, and complete also in the generation of employment. This is the priority of the Government, the central axis on which our public economic policy is based. This framework programme is based on the experience gained since September 2013. It will make it possible to redouble efforts to promote the local and regional economy; to support training for employment, entrepreneurship and youth employment; and to prioritize the investment, innovation, industrialization and internationalisation line that supports solid and sustainable future growth. Euskadi is now a growing country, and our commitment is to consolidate this trend so that we maintain sustainable growth through quality reactivation and employment, and human development, social integration, equality and quality public services. There is no doubt that uncertainties remain in our environment. Our hand is stretched out to concentrate efforts around the objective we share: to grow and consolidate the path of job creation in a context of progressive recovery of Basque economic activity in all sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Forest House and Legrand EH Shades to the President, concerning the fact that the price is to be taken for the Church in front of the sexual abuses which children have suffered." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, on this question, on a trip to Vatican, we would like to ask you to consult the priests of little age about the declarations of sex. You said: "It is a process for the church, and it has made decisions." Besides, you added: "The country and its hierarchy of structure are the Catholic Church who decides, and I can't appreciate it." I repeat, we would like to ask you to reflect deeply on this question, because it concerns you and your government, and the protection of children who live in this country. Instead of giving an appropriate answer to this, and urging the person to take an interest in justice, you resolved not to refuse your care, nor to answer in the presence of the Basques whom you represent. In a work made by the researcher Felix Lózez, not only to inform us of the little data we have, but among the abuses of children (and the abuses of which they have suffered to speak), we know that they have been abused by the hand of the clergy, and that this number of abused boys rises up to 9%. Though most of the abuses occur in the domestic atmosphere, we cannot at all regard these facts as anarchical; much less, if we consider the weight and presence of the Church in our society, which have governed the education, leisure, and so on. The possibility of some persons judging from the Canonicall Justice, and others of proceeding from the common Justice, produces the first, and the second-rate people. And with your depositions, you have denied all the rights of justice to these people who have been victims of abuse. It is for them to decide how and where they wish to carry their own proceedings, and to work in order to keep all these possibilities open. On the other hand, the impostor does not only share the institution, the church, the answers. He must answer before the people as he is a citizen, and either refuse to admit it or not encourage it, he will create the first and second-rate populations. Being a churchman doesn't make you impalpable. For all this, we want to ask you: Is this the abuse of behaviour to the President, and of the consequences of these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, we'll clear up what I said and the context. I'm sure we'll make it clear. But it will be more important from the beginning to express the attitude of the President, and the attitude of the President is as follows: One, we absolutely disapprove of sexual abuses against children, both in the Church and in any other institution. Two, you know, "EunkMull" will do everything that's in his power to counter the practice of sexual abuses, and above all, to offer full support and support to victims. Three, in this particular case, this question is not only a question of the Church, but is a problem of all the institutions and of the whole society. This is not private, it's public. It is our responsibility to guarantee the rights of those who have received the sexual abuses and to take the necessary measures to improve the prevention. This is the President's attitude, clear and clear: zero tolerance. You say, Mrs Etxebarrieta, "as if they were anecdotal questions". For, look, I would like to stress that the Government is acting in relation to abuses in different areas, because it does not consider them precisely anecdotal: Employment and Social Policies, with the child and adolescent care telephone; Education, with the protocol on prevention and care in schools, an initiative in progress since 15 November involving all the institutions and entities involved; Emakunde, the Beldur Barik prevention programme, protocol against sexual harassment at work, guide on prevention of harassment and abuse in sport, guide on action for social service professionals, defence and counselling services. Mrs Etxebarrieta, the position and attitude of the lehendakari on this issue is of zero tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u9	I thank you for the answer. And it was in his time, when he asked me this question, that we would like to hear. We're glad to hear it and we're glad you'll find us on that road. For we know that we ought to take measures in front of this. They're taking it, but they have to take more. And we've introduced another law to it. At the first point, we'd require a recruiting. We believe that this answer makes a kind of reaction, so we're on the side of removing that point to work together. But we thought it was important to bring a more general response here. Not only looking at the Church, or the Church looking at the roads, did she answer. Because it's not anecdotic, we absolutely agree with that. And because the Church has to do what is necessary to the Church, but we must, as a whole, take care of the business of this society. And so, in the expansion of the protocols, and so on, we inform you that we intend to continue our work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mrs. Houseboy. I've made my attitude clear and clear, and also the practice of the Euko-Ming-Ming-that's the most important thing. And with this I also wish to explain my statements in Rome, as I have said before, that everything may be made clear. On the eve of our meeting with the Secretary of the Vatican, I answered a journalist's question in an exact and brief answer. What he asked me was whether I ought to apply the subject of the affair in the Church to the Secretary of State of Vatican. It was my answer: 'It's not for me to do it in that walk.' That was the question. When we take the answer in pieces, when it is published, it happens, that there are misunderstandings. The question to me was another. In this matter, our priority is people: the victims and their families. As I mentioned in Rome, we offer them our full support and support. We condemn all sexual abuses against children, even when they happen in the Church. And we'll protect and guarantee the rights of people who've got their sex abuses. As for my statement in Rome, it is important, I insist, to know its context. I was asked if I planned, with the Vatican Secretary of State, to address the situation of the former vicar general of Gipuzkoa. And that's what I said I didn't fit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, was made to the president of the pederasty connected with the Church." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u13	Good morning, Mr. President. Sexual abuse, as well as sexual exploitation, child pornography, trafficking for sexual exploitation, sex tourism... are forms of violence that undermine their psychic and emotional integrity, their sexual freedom, the well-being and development of children and adolescents. The abusers, and this must be very clear, are not sick. They are the expression of an adult, central and patriarchal society that abuses and cosmifies and mercantiles children. Because of his words, which he has just spoken of, we asked him the following question, which was what would be the position of the Basque Government with regard to its participation as a particular accusation on the assumption that the victims, with whom Mr Lehendakari has not yet met, consider him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country has already ordered the launch of an investigation to determine the responsibilities of the former vicar general for cases of sexual abuse of minors. I share the criterion of conducting the investigation in the judicial field, and I also respect the right of victims to preserve anonymity if they so decide. Once this decision has been taken, it is up to us to respect the investigation, before taking any initiative on the position of the Basque Government in the judicial process. I reiterate that my priority in this matter is the people affected and their families. I show you all the support and willingness of the Government. Our duty is to protect these people and give them our support for what they have suffered and the situation in which they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u17	Indeed, Mr Lehendakari, we know that there are actions that correspond to justice. However, there are numerous other measures that fall under the responsibility of the Basque Government and are essential to move towards a society free of violence against children and adolescents. These include the Convention on the Rights of Children and Adolescents, the European Charter on the Rights of the Child, or the Act on the Care and Protection of Children and Adolescents, to ensure the exercise of the rights contained in international and national legislation. The latter establishes as a principle of action by the Administration to give special consideration to cases in which children or adolescents are victims of crime, and to take appropriate support and protection measures. And forgive me, Mr Urkullu, your support measures in this case shine for your absence. From Elkarrekin We believe it is essential to strengthen the Observatory for Children and Adolescents. Systematic and up-to-date data are needed for policy making. We need to work more, and more vigorously, on prevention and social awareness and early detection. Comprehensive care must generate processes with the priority objective of redressing the damage, so that victims can remake their life plan free of violence. We must be concerned and concerned to guarantee the right to access to justice. The adult world continues to question the word of children and adolescents, even more so when they point to people, in most cases men, who have a place of authority in the family sphere, with spaces of trust for them and their families, such as the Church. There are numerous situations that do not come to be reported in police or judicial offices, and when the word of children and adolescents is reported it is in eternal doubt. And the risk of revictimization is high. Demonstrating sexual abuse is a really painful path. We must promote an approach that puts the voice and needs of children and adolescents at the centre of policy. There is a great deal to be done, Mr Lehendakari, and we intend to go into that very much during this parliamentary term. We propose, and we have already proposed it at the beginning of this parliamentary term, to work on a number of initiatives, one of which we have already proposed, which is to register this very week an initiative to set up a committee on children and adolescents in the Basque Parliament, because we believe that it is likely, or unfortunately, that more cases may arise, and we believe that this issue should be put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arana, I respect your telling me what to do. I'll tell you again what we're doing. We are doing in Employment and Social Policy, with the child care and adolescence telephone. We are making in Education, with the protocol of prevention and care in schools, an initiative in progress since 15 November in which all the institutions and entities involved participate. We are doing from Emakunde, with the Beldur Barik prevention programme, with the protocol against harassment on the grounds of sex at work, with the guide for the prevention of harassment and abuse in sport, with the guide of action for social services professionals, with the defense and counseling service. Mrs Arana, if you want to propose other initiatives, other measures, in case the committee on children and young people is set up, you are in your perfect right. We're doing it from the government. And I repeat – I said it the first day and I repeat it today – in the specific case, as in all cases, we have to respect the situation of all the people who have denounced the harassment. And I also said this in my statements in Rome. It is a matter in which the affected themselves have the judicial means to make their own journey, and I also said so. And it is not for us, Mrs. Arana, to be a private accusation. You are mistaken in that approach. The victims have decided, for the time being, to preserve their anonymity, and I respect it. And if they ever ask to meet with the Basque Government, we will certainly be willing to attend to them. This is my response as an institutional representative and my position. I repeat, on the other hand, that an investigation is already under way by the Office of the Prosecutor, and that it is up to us to respect his times. It's not up to us to be judges. I reiterate our condemnation of these events, and our commitment to prevention and assistance through specific programmes of the Basque Government, such as those it is implementing. And I also reiterate that in the event that families so request, we express our willingness to help clarify the facts and take appropriate action. Our goal is to achieve something that I think we all want and share: that these facts never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Mymeal, of the Euscal Socialists, made to the Chief of Environments, Land Planets, and Housing Houses, concerning the rent of the housings managed by the Renal, and of the Invention of Prevention in the case of the Invention of Prevention." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u21	Thank you, ma'am. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. That the Housing Act has been a recent milestone in the extension of rights for Basques and Basques is something that I think is perfectly clear at this stage. A law driven and worked by the Basque socialists from the firm conviction of equality, solidarity and social justice as a tool for progress towards a society with greater decency; a law driven by the implementation to the last of the possibilities offered by our powers to strengthen those principles. And in this area we had precedents for the adoption of this law itself. It was not an opportunistic law in the heat of dramatic circumstances of many people thrown out of their homes for not being able to face the mortgages to which they had been chained. The law was designed in advance, it was being worked in the midst of those tasks which took more than one legislature from the socialist government to complete, and which looked at the possibilities within our reach to give immediate responses to prevent such eviction. A clear example of this was the launch of the anti-discharge office that coordinated the then Justice Adviser Idoia Mendia, together with the Housing Department that led the then and current Councillor Iñaki Arriola, and the Consumer Department. I will not say that that was an experience of success, because it will never be a total success to know that there are families who reach that limit, who see themselves at risk of being outside their homes without knowing where to go. I will say that it was an experience that offered solutions; that avoided that, after feeling vertigo, many families were expelled from their homes for reasons that had occurred, not because they had lived above their possibilities, as many times we were repeated. It was not a success, but instead it was an example, first for those who later constituted other political projects that so much criticized the socialist and ended up taking as a reference that model designed modestly in the Euskadi governed by the socialists. And secondly for other administrations that took as an example and as a mirror our experience and took it as theirs by putting it into practice. But it is clear that the ultimate success is never achieved. Even by making available to vulnerable groups all the means at our disposal, new cases are emerging to which solutions must continue to be offered. Counselor, this very Monday you told us of a new protocol to prevent the eviction of families residing in homes in Alokabide. What is the status of this protocol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u23	Thank you, President. Mr Andueza, our department, through the public society Alokabide, manages about 12,000 rental homes. Apart from the ASAP programme, the 98 % tenants of these homes managed by Alokabide, with 2016 data, paid an average monthly income of 242 euros. Since it is a social income, equivalent to 30% of the weighted income of families, this data shows that we are dealing with people and families with reduced income. I want to make it clear that the vast majority of tenants meet their obligations on time, and in cases where difficulties are detected in the payment of rent Alokabide has an important team in the social area that attends to people and tries to find the solution, postponing payments or adapting the rent to the circumstances. Alokabide always acts in a guaranteed way, but, despite this, there are cases of unjustified payments, which, sometimes combined with problems of coexistence, result in the initiation of judicial proceedings of eviction and, ultimately, the launching of housing. Thus, in 2016, the launches affected forty-six homes, accounting for 0.38% of Alokabide's park. It is not a high figure, but we are dealing with people and with a vital element such as housing. Therefore, our goal is to further strengthen the guarantees that no tenant of Alokabide who is a good-faith debtor will end up losing his home because he cannot pay the rent. To this end, I addressed the president of Eudel, Imanol Landa, asking him to collaborate with the municipalities where Alokabide has housing, in order to implement a preventive action protocol that avoids launches as much as possible and that, when they cannot be avoided, provides alternatives for people and families at risk of social exclusion. I have to thank the reception was very positive. On 19 January, the executive commission of Eudel approved the protocol, and has referred it to all municipalities for implementation when necessary. The mechanism is very simple: it is activated when Alokabide detects a situation of risk; then it must contact the corresponding mayor to communicate the case, and that the mayor designates the interlocutor, usually of the social services, to try to seek together an exit adapted to the circumstances of those affected. And, as we want to act with the greatest transparency, there is also the possibility that, before the judicial process, Alokabide and the tenant, with the express consent of the latter, come into contact with the associations and social groups against eviction present in the municipality so that they are informed first hand and can also participate in the search for solutions. This is my department's commitment, and this is going to be the pattern of action. Because it's true that there are no magic wands in life, but I really think it's worth trying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Aridez... ? No. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team to the president, not to go to the Council of Autonomical Presidents, to neglect the institutional responsibilities." Mr Alfonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. Why didn't you go to the presidents' conference?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I did not go to the Conference of Presidents for respect for myself as institutional representative and lehendakari of all Basques and Basques; for respect for what was decided by the Basques and Basques in the referendum in the year 79 approving the Statute of Gernika Autonomy; for their non-compliance, and for the call of necessary attention to non-compliance by the President, Mr Rajoy, at the five meetings that I held in the last legislature, to the questions of State that I raised to you. For that reason. Out of respect and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. I'm going to do some opposition; little, but someone has to do it here too this morning. You say it was out of respect, and it's an argument I certainly didn't expect. You surprised me. But, of course, one might ask then: is that, when the lehendakari Ibarretxe – see that you are going to prove that you are even more nationalist than Ibarretxe – went to the conference of presidents, what was disrespectful? Was there no respect for the referendum on the Statute of Autonomy? You have to admit that your argument does not stand. I think what may be the reasons that led you not to go: that you do not want to participate in anything that has to do with Spain, or that you can consider that it makes us participate in this area... I can talk to you again about what was happening to Ibarretxe, or why it was your colleague, the president of Navarre, who was at the meeting, at the conference of presidents; it was not you. However, there was talk of issues and issues that are of interest to all and that involve a need for cooperation, and of which I too believe you and your Government have much to learn. Because that's where you were talking about education... Look at education, we're getting ahead of the rest of the communities. You have a failure in the education policy that you have taken in the last four years, and you are still with the same team. I could have learned something, or at least hear what they are doing well in other communities, that the PISA report is better for them. Or on the job. You have a lower activity rate than the others! It is true that we have a much better starting position, but La Rioja has just advanced us, and the others will continue to advance us, because we grow in number of jobs at a much lower rate than the rest of Spain. Therefore, there too you had something to learn. And I had something to say about social policy, where they always say they're in a position to teach everyone else lessons. And, especially if you are able to teach others lessons, you cannot be so selfish as not to go there to make the contribution, so that the rest of the people in the common territory could learn. I would have understood that you, on the agenda item on the financing of the common system territories, were going to have coffee, because Basque is bilateral, and we have a relationship through the Joint Commission. But we cannot be so bilateral that we think we can no longer go to meetings where there are more people, because it makes no sense. The result of this completely incomprehensible attitude, of not participating and not going to meetings, is that the chair of Euskadi was empty. Euskadi's chair was empty. It was not empty of representation and defence of the interests of the Basques, because you left the defence of the interests of the Basques exclusively in the hands of the Government of Spain. You weren't, we weren't. Maybe because your position had to be the most nationalist, or you wanted to do exactly the same as Puigdemont. And I don't want to give you advice, but don't always do the same thing as Puigdemont, because that way maybe we won't all go so well. Our chair was then empty, and we ran out of representation. And I believe that day you left your responsibilities. I'm not going to ask you to acknowledge it, but I know you've started the path of rectification. Its advisers will continue to attend and participate in sectoral conferences. The lehendakari would also have to go, because it is the first of the Government. And I understand that we are going to participate in the forums and commissions that were also born from that conference. Even I want to believe you when you come here and say that your priority will be economic growth, job creation, to turn around the policies that have failed in the last four years. I want to believe you, but you have to start a different path of cooperation, and you have to give gestures of rapprochement, of true participation; act as lehendakari of all Basques, not only of those who are of your party or of those who feel nationalist, and therefore always be where there is something to defend our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, respecting what may have been your intervention, you have given me the impression that you have started the intervention here in the atrium with a playful joke tone, and for me this is a very serious matter. Very serious. And that's why I talked about respect and dignity. Yes, Mr. Semper, respect and dignity. Look, let go, let go that you used in the question. Dejación is that of the President of the Spanish Government, Mr Rajoy: he has not given an answer to the State affairs which, as the highest representative of the interests of the Basques – of all Basques, Mr Alonso, and not of the People's Party alone – I raised to him at five meetings held in the last parliamentary term, the last one on 15 September 2015, and whose documentation is in his possession, Mr Alonso. The decision not to participate in the conference has served as a reminder and a wake-up call. A reminder of the uniqueness of Basque self-government and a call for attention to bilateral relations. It was a thought-provoked decision communicated to President Mariano Rajoy, in an extensive letter I sent him on December 16, a month before the conference. And until today. Until today. The paradoxical thing is that the agenda, in addition to the issue of autonomous financing, which does not belong to us, Mr Alonso – and you can see that you could have gone out for coffee, see how serious – raised issues of sectoral relationship that have already been dealt with, and you are avoiding the nuclear issue, the problem of the territorial model of the state. It is incomprehensible, at a conference of presidents, to avoid the problem of the model of State, when it is proposed to address issues that already have their place in sectoral conferences, in sectoral commissions, even issues that have to be derived from the General Courts of the State. And that's what the presidents of the autonomous communities have to say, supplanting the role of the Legislative Courts? I have expressed my respect for the Conference of Presidents, Mr Alonso. And you ask me... or you've already referred to whether we're going to participate in the working group meetings. Of course I do, because the answer is already in the letter I offered Mr Rajoy on 16 December. In this very letter I mentioned that issue. Euskadi has participated in the sectoral relations forums, and will continue to do so in defence of the interests of the Basques. Euskadi has shown that the bilateral relationship is positive for the self-government and well-being of citizens. Preserving it is our responsibility, and we will continue to do so. My responsibility is to look, in any case, at the positive future, and that is why I advocate the need to reactivate the agreement and the bilateral relationship, to reactivate the dialogue, and this is also what I put to Mr Rajoy in the letter of 16 December. And until today. These are issues that have the express support of this Parliament: full compliance with the Gernika Autonomy Statute of 79, which is law; updating and deepening of self-government; liquidation of the Cup, renewal of the five-year law; updating of the Economic Concert; response to the economic crisis; state policy at the orderly end of violence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, made by the members of the CETA of the CETA, the President of the Otero Gaboro CDR, which the European Union and Canada have signed." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u32	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urcullu, in the next few weeks, a commercial alliance called the European Union and Canada can overcome the second barrier. The first, after the shooting on the Valerian territory, was defeated in October when the European Union and Canada signed the treaty. To overcome the second barrier, the European legislature must consent. The agreement will be sufficient to begin to act partially, but the agreement, as it is mixed, must be admitted by the legislatures of the States. To-day we have brought the matter here for three reasons: because we wish to express our position and to know the government, because there seem to be many questions about the agreement without answering, and it seems to us that the noise of the TTIP agreement prevented this agreement from paying any attention. It seems to me that our position on these terms of the third generation is sufficiently clear: CETA AD, like TRICA or TISA, we can place it there. You and Mrs. Tapia had a lot of arguing during the preceding law. In order to place them again, we believe that the key of these treaties is not a commerce, but instead of this the principal object of these treaties is to impose a new state quo in favor of the transnations. We are fain to impose a scheme against the favour of courtiers and of capitals, and against the sovereignty of citizens and peoples, which is founded on private right, and is developed in the weakening of democratic power. We have no difficulty either with international commerce or with the extent of our corporations; which is the reverse, if commerce is always for the benefit of the people, if human rights are respected by nature, if the proceedings are democratic, if the rights of the workman are respected. In a word, we are favorable to just commerce, and in commerce to the favor of public justice. Unfortunately, these treaties are contrary to what I have said in every respect. I have but little time for details, but I can explain it by some questions. In an interpelation of 2015, Mrs. Tapia explained the position of the government in front of TTIP. You said he was put on the February Committee in February 2015. The consideration of this Board of Regions, among other things, was as follows: "The importance of this promise is, of course, to ensure the democratic control of negotiations, and consequently to execute the whole process with as much transparency as possible." Question one. What you said for TTIP is good for CETA too? Would you say that there has been a democratic control during the CETA process and that it has been made with transparency? Hitz-hartze horretan hau ere esan zenuen: "We have to consider that the negotiations on this treaty include areas which also fall, in some cases, as is the case in Euskadi, in much more local and regional areas, and which the relevant administrations and parliaments must talk about". Question two. You're talking about our administration? What's he talking about, or is he gonna talk about the CETA deal in this administration? Eta hau ere esan zenuen: "In addition, the Basque Government, in exercise of the transparency it demands, will promote the holding of briefings with each and every civil society agent in this country. That is our will." Question three. Do you think the government has tried to inform us about the operators? What were they? Is that enough? It seems to us that there has been no employment, CETA is a very poor degree of knowledge of the agreement. The work of training has mainly come from the popular movement and indubitable sectors, from the workingman's representatives, from the agricultural associations, the teams of nature's defense... There haven't been any jobs here, but Vallonian did. The negotiations of the agreement ended in the year 2013th. Durão Barros, who was then the President of European Commission, wanted to sign quickly, but before the re-establishment began, the document was to be published, and the Constable of Valmonia set out a process of information and analysis with lawyers, with scholars, small and rhymes, unions, hundreds of social unions, and so on. After two years of work, they concluded that the conditions of the CETA agreement were unacceptable, and as they had jurisdictions, they had not allowed the government of Belgium to make an agreement. Then, to sum it up, after the pressure of the European Council, they finally signed it, but after a change of conditions. This industry, which did not change the original text of the agreement, has brought back certain guarantees, which are not enough for us, but which seems to us a positive exercise of Valtonia, for the process has been much more democratic than here. Here also questions: What do you think of the trial in Vallonia? Would you like, like Valerian, to have the power to sign these treaties or not? Would you be ready to start something like that? On the same side of the bargain, there are people who care a great deal about us. If we talk about the lease, we think the effect of the first sector will be huge. I think we agree here, but I'll ask you in case: Do you think our first sector in general can be strengthened with CETA? Where? Why? Another area of concern to us, and a lot, is small and medium-sized enterprises. Given that we are talking about more than 99% of the business fabric in small and medium-sized enterprises, and bearing in mind that – according to the data I have, then they correct me – only 0.85% of Basque SMEs export to Canada, does it not seem to them that it is a little naive to think that the agreement has more chance than threat? Why do you think this is a market opportunity for our companies, and not the other way around? And if they think it's an opportunity, what are they based on? Is there any study to indicate it, or are we talking about pure faith? Another area in which Canada fears is the protection of nature. While Canada has historically been a natural paradise, its fall into misfortune coincides with the launch of another treaty of this kind, that of North America's free trade with the United States and Mexico just over twenty years ago. Since then, Canada has been unable to adopt environmental protection standards, because it immediately provoked lawsuits in investment courts, such as the one provided for in CETA. This has led to a perverse effect, which is known as regulatory inhibition, as the fear of lawsuits in private courts has caused it not to be regulated. As a result, Canada is today the world's country with the highest rate of deforestation and loses on average 2 million hectares of forest (to put it in context, two million hectares is Euskal Herria whole), each year. And, by setting a single example of what investment courts mean, I will tell you, in conclusion, the case of Long Pine, which can very well illustrate what comes over us. Long Pine, Canadian company, hydrocarbon sector, with fracking licenses in Quebec. Quebec, as a precaution, puts a moratorium on fracking. Long Pine says: "How can we ban fracking! I demand you." But if you ask the State of Canada, as a Canadian company, you have to go to ordinary justice to claim, but through the Free Trade Agreement you find a more effective way. Which way? For his office in Delaware's tax haven in the United States. And now, already as a transnational company, you have the right to arbitration court. Result: it puts a demand for a loss of profit, without investing a single dollar, worth 250 million euros. What do you think of the story? What do you think if I tell you that any American company could, through its Canadian subsidiaries, do the same here? What would happen to the American hydrocarbon partners in Euskadi? This arrangement is, after all, part of a large program, which contains many temptations and is only one of those CETs. The program is to destroy the remains of the state of well-being: If we were to punish justice, to leave democracy to nothing, we should leave our lives to the markets, and be deprived of the right to decide the peoples. And the last question, Mr. Urkullu: Are these the principal characteristics of independence of the twenty-one-century century? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u34	Good morning, everyone. First of all, Mr Otero, I would like to thank you for the tone of your speech, despite the fact that, as you can imagine, we do not agree with the substance of the question on which you are asking the Government today on behalf of your parliamentary group. According to the title of the inquiry, he would like to know the position of the Lehendakari and the Government on the free trade agreement (FTA) signed by the European Union and Canada, and that is precisely what I will try to do. To start talking about free trade, we should begin to reflect on our country's own reality, before we lose ourselves in grandiose ramblings about geopolitics and global strategies. A small country, such as Euskadi, must by force be a country open to the outside world. The smaller economies are necessarily more open, because they are able to produce less and specialize in a bunch of products that allow them to finance a wide range of import needs. In terms of the weight of their trade in GDP, our exports account for 65%, distributed with some balance with the rest of the state (35), and allow us to export 30% abroad. And on the part of purchases, the rest of the state accounts for just over 42% of GDP, and 27% of the rest of the world. It is true that our history has contemplated various regimes, from the promotion of specialization in iron and the prohibition of mineral export, according to the Fort Nuevo de Vizcaya of 1526, to the revocation of this prohibition, which gave rise to the accumulation of the industrialization of the nineteenth century, to the closed economy of Francoism. But the truth is that the need for export has been permanent, and that recent periods, with a brighter performance of the Basque economy, have gone hand in hand with the processes of opening to the outside. The most recent has taken place with European integration, a process that has turned much of the trade from the rest of the state into international markets. I say this because, following the debates in this House, one has the impression that this commitment to free trade is not always shared, even when the processes of openness and integration are made with guarantees of promoting the development model itself, even though adaptation efforts are always required. In the past legislature it was said here that NAFTA has caused the massive impoverishment of Mexico and the impoverishment of labor wages in the United States. It seems that free trade cannot be worse. It is no longer that, according to economic theory, the obvious gains of trade and specialization can sometimes imply a tendency to equalize the distribution of factors and that profits are distributed, but there are losses for all. We believe that the defence of free trade is not an option for us, and that openness to the outside world is the only way for Euskadi to be in the world. Similarly, we also do not share all the black legend that you have also raised here about the TTIP, which suggests that free trade is an idea driven by disapprehensive and evil entrepreneurs, who manipulate stupid politicians who do not hesitate to harm the neighbor and his own people. Trade integration agreements have been, for us, a source of economic progress, and will continue to be, provided they are done in sufficient conditions; something that is easier to achieve when the economies that are integrated do not have great divergences in their levels of development. Well, once this is in place, I have to say that the Global Economic and Trade Agreement, also known as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), provides an impetus for economic integration which results in the elimination of customs duties, especially of industrial products, opening up the service market, access to public procurement, guarantees of non-discrimination for investors. And all this by respecting European standards of food safety and labour rights, and by ensuring the environment and consumer health. From the Government's point of view, it represents a process of openness, or, if preferred, greater integration between two advanced economies, from which economic gains can be expected, and which has guarantees for European standards of safety and quality. However, we are not going to fly the bells and gloss large numbers of the increase in trade quoted at European level, which would reach nothing less than 23%, it is said. We do not mind admitting that both these large figures and the grandiose accusations are easier to spell out than to prove. The agreement is going to be limited, the impact is going to be limited in Euskadi, because, as we all know, Euskadi's relations with Canada are really small. The 0.5% of Basque exports in 2014 had as destination Canada, that is, 105 million euros, which makes it the country 36 of the ranking by destinations. And on the import side, they represent 0,6 %, just 99 million (31 in the ranking position). But precisely because of this low starting volume, openness represents a territory of opportunity. Because, while it is a medium-sized country with a population of 35 million, it enjoys an extraordinary level of development and is at the forefront of world productivity in many activities. Euskadi has a lot to gain by coming to Canada, because, although it is true that it is a small market when compared to his giant American neighbor, we must also not forget that all of America represents, even today and we hope that in the future, a free trade area. Canada, which enjoys enviable economic stability and has been a model for dealing with the crisis, will deploy an ambitious public investment programme of more than $5 billion, and will be a platform for addressing trade operations throughout the North America. It is well known that the agreement has been called into question in some respects, as Mr Otero has said, by Belgium's opposition at the request of the Walloon region, and also by the reticent positions of some other countries, such as Austria. In addition to agricultural issues, a central issue has been the non-acceptance of private arbitration mechanisms that replace the public, but those doubts, Mr Otero, as you well know, were dispelled to promote the successful completion of the agreement, and finally the Walloon Parliament itself approved it by an overwhelming majority. Nor is it any secret that the agreement was born under the shadow of the failed TTIP, which had a black legend based, supposedly, on the obscurantism in its management and which promoted a new feudalization of economic relations that would displace state regulation. It is now intended to displace the same accusations to CETA, motivating it as Trojan horse of TTIP, when in reality there is no support, in our opinion, for such a trial, in view of the approved texts. Surely the European Union has learned many lessons about transparency and accountability during all these negotiation processes and the criticisms they have been subjected to. These European institutions are instances of accountability that have nothing to do with the old multilateral negotiations of the World Trade Organization and its rounds, such as the last failed Doha round. The previously insistent liberalization framework, by multilateral organizations, was much more opaque than the current one. I, for my part, have no room to acknowledge that the movements of criticism of trade agreements have made a positive contribution, in the sense of moving towards greater transparency and control of the citizenry. Moreover, CETA is today conceived as a model for, where appropriate, resuming negotiations with the United States, which represent much more difficulties from the point of view of guarantees. In that regard, too, we believe that it represents a positive net contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u36	Thanks again. You know, I don't know, because I thought Mrs. Tapia was going to answer me the question, whether I've been looking at her or not, but I thought it was a sort of ethebebestistista to make a few questions and answer the government. I understand you've prepared your speech, but I think I've asked you at least a dozen questions and you haven't answered me one. I do not know whether this is going to be a dialogue of the besugos or the deaf or whatever, but, well, in any case, about the things he has said, we are concerned that he speaks and is so interested in free trade rather than fair trade, that we understand that it is a much more interesting concept. Then there is another thing that concerns us also among the things he has said, and that he is right, that it is about freeing up access to public contracts for companies. And, of course, I would like to remind you that obviously there are not only public contracts in Canada, there are also public contracts here, and a free trade agreement is precisely to release those contracts, and often those public services. There is something else I would like to answer, about the doubts that have been dispelled after the conflict in Wallonia. First, I think it gives value to the conflict itself in Wallonia, also in Austria, but I want to say that the doubts are not clear, and there is a doubt that it is fundamental, and it is that they have made an interpretative document of the 1,600 pages of which the agreement is made, which only twelve pages say they will have a binding character. But here we have a problem: we find the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which explains that the hierarchy is that the main text first goes and then the annexes. No comma has been changed to the main text. And who's going to settle these disputes? Who's said he's going to settle these disputes? The arbitration system. Once again, the arbitration system, a private court, because it remains private despite the changes that have been made. On the standards, which you have just told me you are not going to change, just as perhaps the best answer I can give – and I will finish my intervention with this – is this. [[Shows a photo]] This... well, it doesn't look like it at all, and I have to explain it a little bit. This is Canada, Alberta. This was a forest until recently; now is the territory where the largest... munduko industry-ekimenik handiena. Okay? In Canada this is one of the main factors by which the forest is being lost, and has become one of the first..., that is, the world's largest deforester, to say the least. The bituminous sands, through CETA, or CETA through bituminous sands, are already affecting, and for years, even before the CETA agreement began to be negotiated. In 2009, the European Union approved the reform of the Fuel Quality Directive, with the aim of reducing fuel-related emissions by 6%. Bituminous sands have 23% more emissions in the full life cycle, so it was known that the European Union, if it approved this directive, with the aim of meeting the emissions commitments on climate change, was clear that it had to ban the import of bituminous sands from Canada. What happened? That the big companies that were exploiting these bituminous sands began to exert pressure. What was the best point to exert pressure? Because in 2009 CETA, the free trade agreement of Europe-Canada, began to be negotiated. The lobbyists' best point of pressure was to press for the directive not to be put in place by banning Canada's oil sands, which was one of the greedy imports. What I mean by this is that the regulatory inhibition associated with free trade treaties is already taking effect. It is already taking effect, and it has been doing so since 2009, specifically with that of Canada. I don't have time, but in the end, we'll finally know the exact consequences of the agreements after a few years. We say that the principle of practical wisdom is not followed. You here and in Europe (by the name of Bilbao) are strongly defending this agreement. The same speed you ask to march...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Your time is up. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u38	Otero jauna, if I may, and I tell you with all due respect, gives me the feeling that in his approach he was putting the bandage before the wound. It is hard for me to think that a trade agreement with a developed country like Canada has so many things below it that they will be exploited in the future and will be the cause of the evils that I, of course, sincerely, at the moment escape. Of course, I believe that your intervention – and I value it, I insist, as I said earlier, positively – is plagued by certain fears or topics that are in use, but I believe that they must indeed be considered when analysing a question of these as is this treaty. This is what I have tried to convey to you, that is, what is the moderate position, thinking from an objective point of view on what can be a commercial relationship between Euskadi and Canada, two areas, of course, in which, I believe, I have enough confidence to ensure that commercial relations respect everything they have to respect in terms of employment, environmental, contract, and so on. Look, Mr. Otero, today it is precisely the President of the United States who raises his fist and threatens the half world with protectionist measures, while the President of China and the current Grand Timonel of the Communist Party stands up as a defender of free trade. Yes, Mr. Otero, the world is full of paradoxes and surprising changes, but as far as I can see, some positions, like yours, I see quite stagnant. Right now the whole world, sincerely, is not worried about trade liberalization, at least from the European Union and Canada. I don't think that's the concern. However, if you want to continue talking about this issue, we can do so in this House, because in this House we can talk about these and the things that seem relevant to us. It seems that you are concerned about the shadow of protectionism (Europe, and the world today), rather than the catastrophic effects that can be achieved by this agreement that you are proposing. The catastrophic effects can come from the United States Government imposing high tariffs on Mexico and China, which would not only destroy the value chains, in which we are also integrated, but could unleash a wave of trade wars from which not even the European Union would be free. The world is not at present anxious at the price of commercial scale, at least for the liberalization of the European and of Canada. No, the shadow of procretionism, and the catastrophic consequences which the Government of the United States will perhaps produce to Mexico and China, disturb us, not only by disturbing the global chains of values, but by which we are tied up in this chain, because it may lead to commercial wars, and the European Union will not be able to avoid them. And I am not talking about being an affected third party, but even suffering the consequences of protectionism in a direct way. As you know, President Trump's special foreign trade adviser has already made direct accusations towards the euro, aimed at German competitiveness masked in the benefits of unequal monetary union. A real warning to navigators that we would do well to take note of. Today the biggest challenge for our economic stability and our standard of living is not free change, it is protectionism. Today the problem is not the existence of NAFTA; it is that this agreement jumps into the air. Today CETA is also an opportunity to mitigate the impact of the uncertain American trade policy and put us away from some of its effects. We would do well not to lose course in what has always been our journey: to go out into the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpation, in Tinixa Guanche Suáz together with the President of Podemos, to strengthen himself with St. Egidio's community, and to know the work he does with "humanitarians," about the president's travelling to Rome with a declaration of a Euskion. " Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u40	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, members of the legislature. On January 9th, you communicated through the media that you intend to travel to Rome to visit the Community of San Egidio, in order to learn about the humanitarian corridor experience that you have launched. On January 12, she finally travelled to Rome with a delegation from the Basque Government made up of the Secretary of Foreign Action, the Secretary General for Peace and Co-existence, and the Director of Victims and Human Rights. That same day we recorded the inquiry that comes to answer today, and curiously yesterday, while we were in full ordinary, you did well to answer my question deferred. I would have preferred to know it live, which I understand is not a significant change in your plans, but, in any case, thank you for the answer. I do not know whether you will also want to use these ten minutes to comment specifically on the details of the planned, and, if I may, the format, the deadlines, so that your answer here today goes beyond repeating what Jonan Fernández already told the press yesterday. In any case, I think it is important that we move some things, taking into account what they presented yesterday and also the original motivation that led us to carry out the inquiry. The first issue we want to move is that we understand that the fact that you personally go with your team to an issue like this demonstrates the importance they attach to the project, but, if I am honest, I regret that there is no parliamentary intergroup for the defence of the rights of migrants and refugees. I understand – but perhaps I am wrong – that if a working group is formed in order to be able to approach reception from a comprehensive and consensual perspective, at least it would be interesting to have informed Parliament, so that it did not have to repeat here a decision already taken in advance. We understand that it would also have been positive to have the representation of civil society or organizations expert in the reception in Euskadi at the committee that accompanied him to Rome. But above all we believe that when it is at least curious the coincidence of going out to the press one day before you report to Parliament on this matter, in such a hurry. In any case, we reiterate that our assessment is very positive in relation to the actions being taken, Mr Lehendakari. The second is that, in our opinion too, these types of proposals should be worked with caution and with an integral look. Not only trying to look for the photo of an actor (of the Church), because why not also share experiences with other actors, such as the municipalities of change, which already a year ago advanced in solidarity and good doing?, why not talk with organized Basque citizenship...? I do not criticise the Community of Saint Egidio, I understand that today it is and has historically been an example of solidarity and coherence, but the forms are important, and, in our way of looking at them, the decisions that in something so serious do not have many visions to contribute always become poorer. In Elkarrekin We intend to work intensively in this area, in the sincere spirit of reaching agreements that will improve the situation of refugees. In this sense, I repeat, the reading we make of the journey and the decision, which I hope you will describe in detail below, is positive, but we are concerned that it remains in a headline. Because if within a week you can launch a humanitarian corridor and your commitment is so heavy, why hasn't it been done before? Why didn't you bring this proposal months ago? Refugee people have been waiting for us for a long time. San Egidio has been running this humanitarian corridor since April 2016. I do not want to say that his Government has to paralyse itself, it is only that the impression that we believe that a good part of the citizenry can remain, but above all the Basque solidarity movement, is that his visit to Rome and his proposal, if at least surprising, given the repeated manifestations that this Government has made of the inability to act in relation to the position of the Government of the State. Since you have ten minutes to answer me and I have only one question that you answered yesterday, could you define in concrete terms what the part of the proposal submitted to complement the ordinary reception system in the extraordinary situation today means? The ordinary system does not work well, it already had structural weaknesses that the current situation has exacerbated or deepened, but the current crisis is not the cause of the weaknesses of the system. Believe me, I say this from experience, and because we are very concerned about the apparent temporality of the proposal, which, in the words of Jonan Fernández, will take place as long as this exceptional situation lasts. Wars, displacement, trafficking in persons, persecution on grounds of sexual orientation, political motives, and so on, regrettably, are not exceptional. These are realities that have happened, that happen and that will happen throughout the world. The need for shelter is not a temporary thing, it is not a punctual fact. It's a permanent need for thousands of people to save their lives. Why a temporary policy? True, it is necessary to complement and strengthen the current system, but why not move towards an ordinary reception system with more capacity, strength and quality? We have the ability to do this to transform. Will we be able to do so with the input of the groups in this Parliament? To transform, which implies, for us, putting four legs at this table: on the one hand, to strengthen external action; to urge and pressure the central government to comply with commitments; on the other hand, to make an effective improvement in the reception conditions and resources for those who are already here and for those who have to come; but, on the other hand, to work with citizen participation to improve coexistence and channel the solidarity shown by a society that is above the institutions that represent it. Thank you for your answer, beforehand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Guanche, I have taken up with interest, and I have noted, in relation to your questions about participating or sharing with the parliamentary intergroup, the appeal you have made to caution, the intentionality of what our actions may be... I have also taken up the question about the practicality of the supplementary reinforcement system, as well as what may be the doubt about exceptionality. But in any case, Mrs Guanche, you will allow me to begin by offering some background information on the background and current situation with regard to the issue of asylum-seekers. In 2015, a serious humanitarian crisis emerged in the Mediterranean, with hundreds of thousands fleeing the war, and in this context the Spanish Government, which is the competent (the Spanish Government), undertook to host a total of 17,228 people through relocations (relocations, which are asylum-seekers from Greece and Italy), and also through resettlements (relocations, which are asylum-seekers from outside the European Union, mainly from Turkey and Lebanon). At that time, the Basque Government prepared to respond with solidarity, seriousness and rigour to this situation. Three frameworks for work and coordination were immediately established: the interdepartmental sphere; the inter-institutional sphere, with outlaws and municipalities; and the social sphere, between public administrations and social entities working in relation to refugees. Territorial working groups with a technical profile were also set up. In this context, the Basque Government expressed its readiness to receive at least 1,000 people in the short term. At the end of 2016, the total number of persons hosted by Spain through relocations or resettlements was 980 (980 out of 17,228 planned). At this time, the Basque Government has created a total of 307 places, in which 570 people have been accommodated. However, of the 570 persons, only 46 persons came from relocations or resettlements that corresponded in the quota to the Government of the Spanish State. The rest of the squares in Euskadi have been occupied by people from different parts of the world who have arrived in the territory of the Spanish State by their own means and have applied for asylum. We've done more. In 2016, through the Basque Cooperation Agency, we funded four emergency aid interventions to try to alleviate the serious situation that refugees are going through in the neighbouring countries where they are trapped. It is therefore not a question of exceptionality, Mrs Guanche. We have invested €770,000 in collaboration with UNHCR, Unicef, UNRWA, Emigrants without Borders, in actions in Syria, Iraq, Jordan, to meet the basic needs of the refugee population from Syria. This is the context. And, as you know, Mrs Guanche, at the beginning of this parliamentary term we have decided to place the coordination of the response to the refugee crisis in the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence, in your Directorate of Victims and Human Rights. This decision responds to the determination to strengthen the human rights approach in the Government's overall action from a global and interdepartmental perspective. For the same reason, the Basque Cooperation Agency will also be integrated into the structure of this secretariat. Secondly, I think it is important to be able to explain the genesis and meaning of the official visit to Rome that the delegation of the Basque Government that I led made between 11 and 13 January. The origin of this visit is the René Cassin Human Rights Awards awarded by the Basque Government. In the last year's edition, this award was given to three organizations committed to solidarity with refugees. So, on December 12th Zaporeak-Solidar Flavors, Humanitarian Maritime Rescue and the Community of Saint Egidio received this award. With Zaporeak-Humanitarian Flavors and Humanitarian Maritime Rescue we also wanted to make a visit to Queos, but because of the time of stay (until the end of January, as we were told) it was not possible to approach this trip to Queos. In the case of the Community of San Egidio, the jury highlighted its contribution to the creation of humanitarian corridors. And, since the summer of 2016, the Basque Government has been following up on this proposal, after the award of the prize I was interested in firsthand knowing the management experience of these corridors for the reception of refugees (they are those who manage the Community of San Egidio; only for this reason), as well as the social integration programmes of these people. In this way the visit and the agenda of the visit to Rome were managed, with this central objective and by the hand of the Community of Saint Egidio. After your visit to Rome, the RedMunch has made accurate steps. On the one hand, we've arranged two proposals to greet the refugees and enhance the ability to integrate them. The last week, January 25th, we have given this double proposal to the Spanish Government. Two days later, on January 27th, we set up a meeting between the Christmas departments to coordinate the work we had to do around the two proposed proposals. On the same day, we introduced two initiatives to the representatives of the three fords, of the townships of Eudel and of the three capitals, and of the social institutions which work in the reception and integration of the refugees. We've arranged a meeting with the bishops this week to give this humanitarian crisis an answer to the possibility of cooperation. In those moments, then, she's working on those two ebony suggestions, four pieces of cooperation: The government and the institutions of Spain, the forum and local institutions, the homologous entities managed by the Spanish government, the volunteers and organized civil society. I was aware of the context and objectives of the Basque Government, Mrs Guanche, and I wanted to respond specifically to your question by concretely taking the specific steps that the Basque Government has taken after the visit to Rome. Thus, we have defined two concrete proposals to improve the capacity for the reception and integration of refugees. The first, in relation to its approach to the supplementary reinforcement system, is to expand the ordinary reception system with a complementary reinforcement system in which the autonomous communities play a direct role in channelling the reception processes. Something that doesn't happen now, according to the ordinary system. The criterion of this complementary system is to articulate a response infrastructure built from bottom up, through the collaboration of municipalities, parliaments, autonomous communities and social entities with the Spanish Government. That is to say, it is not the Spanish Government that says how many refugees are to benefit from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but that it is we, the autonomous communities, and particularly us, who propose how many we want according to the resources we have planned. The second proposal focuses on launching a pilot experiment to develop the path of humanitarian corridors in Euskadi. The Community of San Egidio has developed this experience in collaboration with the Italian Government, in addition to the ecumenical communities, and also the second humanitarian corridor with the Italian Episcopal Conference. That is why we also appeal to the Spanish Episcopal Conference. Its legal support is found in Article 25 of the European Visa Regulation, which provides for the possibility of extending visas with territorial limitations for humanitarian reasons. And here we could also discuss the Dublin Agreement, which we are also concerned about. This option allows for the legal and safe transfer of asylum-seekers, especially if they are in a vulnerable situation, avoiding the risk of shipwrecking in the Mediterranean. We have not been left to the mere definition of these proposals. We have taken the following concrete steps to implement them. First, on 25 January we proceeded to give the Spanish Government the double proposal directly. On the same day, the Basque Government also participated in a coordination meeting with all the autonomous communities, convened by the General Secretariat for Migration and Immigration of the Spanish Government. Secondly, on 27 January we held an interdepartmental meeting here in Gasteiz to coordinate the necessary work on the two proposals submitted. Thirdly, we have presented both initiatives to representatives of the three parliaments, Eudel and the municipalities of the three capitals, as well as to social organisations working in the areas of reception and integration of refugees. We are working with UNHCR, we are working here in Euskadi with CEAR Euskadi, with Caritas Diocesan, we are also working with Ellacuría center, and we are working with Red Cross. And, fourth, we held a working meeting with the Basque bishops, so it said before the participation of the Italian Episcopal Conference in Italy and the possibility of the participation of the Spanish Episcopal Conference here in the Spanish State in the project of humanitarian corridors, focused, therefore, on analyzing the possibilities of collaboration in the response to the humanitarian crisis. At present, the Basque Government is working on the management of these two proposals in four areas of cooperation: the Spanish Government and European institutions, outside and local institutions, approved bodies that manage the Spanish Government's reception programmes, and volunteering and organised civil society. We share the strategy and work together, and we will continue to work together, Mrs. Guanche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u44	Thank you, first of all. I have just worked with refugees in the context of accompanying state programmes and also in the context of their integration here in Euskadi. I know firsthand and I have followed in the front line what has been done. And I recognize that there have been positive things in that job and there have been things to improve. And then there is a way to go, and I have of course insisted throughout my intervention that in this we come not to fight, but to seek ways of working. I also insist that the assessment of the working approach is positive, but we are concerned, in addition to the doubts I have expressed throughout my speech, about the conception of the refugee phenomenon as a timely crisis. Because we understand that this is not temporary, and we understand that the mechanisms and working approaches that are marked in this line have to have a structural character, and above all that it affects the good coordination between the administrations, in order not to run the risk that people will lose us along the way. We will be alert and willing to continue working, and we will also hope to have room to contribute. We understand that in Euskadi articulating this support strategy is urgent, but we understand that it should not be a temporary structure. On the other hand, you have spoken in your speech about collaboration with the State, and then I have my concern, because I have some doubt that, if the Government has not fulfilled its previous commitments, it will now come to fulfilment all of a sudden. But, well, we'll see about that. I have also told you that not only do I not criticize Saint Egidio, but I value his work, but we are concerned that in doing so he did not count on the response of Basque organised civil society. I think that Ongi etorri Errefuxiatuak has taught us all a lesson going out on the streets since the first day, and I think it is interesting that this government also takes them into account to find work strategies. I understand that the population is a fundamental agent to accommodate. Either way, eskerrik asko, and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mrs Guanche, reiterating your concern that this is a timely response to the crisis, I have also explained to you before what actions, beyond these concrete initiatives that we have intended to launch, we are addressing from the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation on a structural basis also in relation to this issue, and clearly there is still a way to go. Look, the Government's two-pronged proposal in this area is based on a number of considerations that I think we should share at this time. To say, for example, that something is failing in Europe's response to the refugee crisis is a shared finding. It is also necessary to promote a response that offers better solutions. In this regard, on 8 January last year (last year) I addressed the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker (on 8 January last year I addressed myself), showing our willingness to cooperate in the solution to this serious problem, on the basis of humanitarian reasons, responsibility and legality. The first stumbling block for facilitating or profiling an adequate response to the tragedy of refugees is the complexity of the analysis of the causes, consequences and solutions associated with this issue. The clearest exponent of this complexity is that the decisions to be taken correspond to various bodies, as you have mentioned, of sectoral or territorial power, with partial decision-making capacity but with an enormous power of global impact on the process of solutions. In our view, the first key to resolving the refugee crisis requires recognizing that active multilateral collaboration is indispensable. That's why we're willing to do it. It is necessary to pool an ethical priority capable of putting the cause of the common good of solidarity before the eyes of selfish interest. Solidarity in Europe must be our first homeland, our priority; a shared solidarity accompanied by security and prudence, of course. It is essential to participate in a climate of confluence of wills, trust and cooperation. We advocate that each institution can make its contribution to the creation of this context, as it is a commitment to international law and human rights. With our initiative we try to preach with the example in this line of action. It is true that until early 2015 the Spanish State has responded to asylum requests with an ordinary reception system. It is also true that from the year 2015 there is an overflow of the situation. Europe must face an extraordinary situation, of hundreds of thousands of people fleeing the war, and in the case of Spain, in this new context, the same ordinary system has continued to be used to deal with an extraordinary situation both because of its size and its scope. The second key to improving the response to the humanitarian crisis is to complement, as long as this exceptional situation lasts, the ordinary system with a complementary reinforcement system. Doesn't mean this dies there. And also complement it with other avenues, such as that of humanitarian corridors. The criterion is to articulate a response infrastructure built from bottom up through the collaboration of municipalities, parliaments, autonomous communities and social entities, also with the Spanish Government. In our area of competence, we are responsible for collaboration and facilitation. The immediate operational objective is to communicate to the Spanish Government the number of people that Euskadi is willing to host in the next two years, in order to be able to respond, at least, to the commitments made for resettlement and relocation. And, Mrs Guanche, I conclude by reiterating that on this issue, more than on any other, it is necessary to put aside excuses or demagogues, and that we must create a real space for collaboration, because without collaboration there is no solution. In this respect, the Basque Government makes itself available to the intergroup set up in this Parliament, in order to extend this area of cooperation also to this institution, which is Parliament and its parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interliberation, made to the president by the staff of the Basque People of Laura Garrido Könákal, suing the defendants at Margüello on the subject of prison sentence, against the prosecution of the prosecution." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments. We talked about this matter this week at the Medical Committee. After the examination of the irregularities of health services we discussed on the 16th of June, 2011, various trials tried in the legislature, and by a different proposal we asked Euko MUDY to complete all these resolutions. Unluckily, in this debate, the Jestric Party, once more maintained its position, remained alone in this matter. The Prosecutor's Office in Bizkaia, after the long judicial investigation, has made an indictment against former senior officials of the Basque Government's Department of Health who then headed the lehendakari Ibarretxe and of whom Mr Inclán was a Health Adviser. According to the Prosecutor's Office, the former advisor of the Basque Government, Rafael Cerdán; the former chief of quality of the Hospital de Cruces, Mr Margüello, and the former director of Health, José Manuel Elorriaga, and a fourth person, agreed to commit irregularities in the recruitment of health services. In particular, the Office of the Prosecutor accuses them of offences of prevarication in media competition with an offence of embezzlement, illegal fraud against the Administration, and an offence of negotiations and prohibited activities for public officials. The Office of the Prosecutor has applied for imprisonment for a total of forty years: eleven years for three of the accused, and six and a half years for a fourth accused. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office has demanded that they pay jointly and in solidarity compensation to the Basque Government for an amount of EUR 6.8 million, which is the amount of economic damage caused. On the contrary, we have learned that the Basque Government, as a private prosecution, has not applied for imprisonment for the accused. In particular, it has requested the opening of an oral trial by submitting written submissions, but has renounced the formulation of a written indictment and exercised exclusively civil action. The Basque Government, to everyone's surprise, has maintained a diametrically opposed approach to which the Prosecutor's Office has maintained. We recall: Prosecutor's Office, prison sentences of forty years (for three of the accused eleven years, and for a fourth person six and a half years); the Basque Government has not applied for prison sentences. All this despite being personified in the cause, that is, as a particular accusation. And it must also be said that Patxi López's Executive was personally appointed in the ninth legislature. The Basque Government has therefore renounced the request for prison sentences, Mr Lehendakari, for the accused in one of the most serious cases of corruption in the Basque Country. You, Mr Lehendakari, will have to explain to us today – and that is why this group has formulated this question – why your Government, the government that you preside over, has renounced to present a written accusation and exercises exclusively civil action. This case, as you will all remember, led to a committee of inquiry in the Basque Parliament which carried out thorough and rigorous work, despite the unfortunate attempts of some to discredit it at all times. Nine months of work, forty-nine appearances, and, ladies and gentlemen, to show a button: some of the people who appeared with Mr Inclán for the reading of a statement signed by all of them now bear responsibilities in his Government, Mr Lehendakari, such as Mr Darpón, Health Adviser, and Mrs Múgica, Director of Osakidetza. They were in that picture, in this statement that was read in the Basque Parliament while a session of the Health Commission was being held. There is also Mr. Elorriaga and there is also Mr. Cerdán. A statement read by Mr. Inclán and signed by seventeen former senior officials, some still in the Department of Health. But those statements denied the irregularities and described them as nothing more and nothing less than nauseating the accusations of corruption that were being made. The conclusions of the committee of inquiry are there, they are published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. They were approved in this House with the vote against the Basque Nationalist Party. Whenever we talk about this issue, even when we had a debate two days ago that the recommendations of a commission of inquiry were met, the Basque Nationalist Party again voted against it. They'll know why. But these conclusions speak of repeated and continuous irregularities over time; they speak of how these irregularities were for the benefit of companies involving a group of people directly linked to the Administration; of how, despite continuing warnings of illegality, these actions were repeated over time; of how they were repeatedly used procedures limiting competition; of how the characteristic of all these irregular actions is that the same number of people coincided, the same group of people conducting negotiations directly with the Administration; of how an ad hoc company (Health Services Management XXI) whose sole client was the Department of Health was set up; and of how it is granted permission to install and operate, completely regardless of the legally established procedure. These conclusions, of course, concluded that, at the very least, the management of the waiting lists was suspicious of the conduct of the Administration in adopting the decision to derive from a newly created company and without means the management of the waiting lists; that there had been economic damage to the public coffers, which we already know today is EUR 6.8 million, etched in that compensation which has also been requested jointly and in solidarity with the accused, and also that, obviously, these irregularities were difficult to believe that they had been carried out without the knowledge of those responsible for the health team at that time. Senor senor, it is clear that the government is going away on a corruption theme again. The Basque Government is once again setting aside a clear case of corruption with a significant economic damage, amounting to EUR 6.8 million. The Basque Government, which you preside over, Mr Lehendakari, again renounces its responsibility in a case of enormous gravity. Again this Government puts forward the partisan criteria to protect the accused in the Margüello case. Berriro kasu honetan irizpidide partyistak kontuan hartzen dira akusatuak babesteko And, while the Prosecutor's Office requests high prison sentences, which reach up to forty years, you zero prison sentences. Once again, Mr Lehendakari, we see that when this government, the government you preside over, has to defend the interests of all Basques and Basques, injured by people linked to the Basque Nationalist Party, for rigging public contracts for their own benefit, it is inhibited. Looks like he's not going with him. This Government, therefore, can say that it has been inhibited in the exercise of its responsibility, which has not lived up to the circumstances. No excuses, Mr. Lehendakari. Now you can't tell me what you told me a few months ago, when I asked you about this issue, about the fact that, known to you, the indictment, where it was already said that there were signs to be able to accuse these people at that time of alleged crimes, and the seriousness of the facts... And the seriousness of the facts, which coincided with the statements and conclusions of the commission of inquiry, was described. That's why, Mr. Lehendakari, I'm telling you it's not worth an apology. You have not lived up to the circumstances, you have not exercised your responsibility, you are not defending the interests of all Basques in this matter. Now you won't be able to tell me, as you told me then, that there is no accusatory car. Now there's a car accusatory, Mr. Lehendakari! You have given up filing charges and applying for prison sentences. You will have to explain here today what was the criterion..., rather, what was the purpose that led your Government to maintain a radical discrepancy with the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office. It's just that it hits a lot, lehendakari. It is that it strikes a lot and draws a lot attention to that disparate approach between the Office of the Prosecutor and the Government that you preside over, which is presented as a particular accusation. I also have to remind you, as I told you earlier, that you did not decide to present yourself as a private prosecution; that was decided by the previous government, the Patxi López government. But you will have to explain here today the discrepancy between the approach of the Prosecutor's Office, which has applied for imprisonment for up to forty years, and the approach of your Government, which you preside over, which has applied for zero prison sentences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u49	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Darpón is a representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u50	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mrs Garrido, good morning to all. We believe that this subject which has brought us to the legislature today is very serious. So our wish is to clear this up as soon as possible. The subject that you bring to this Parliament today for the Basque Government is of the utmost seriousness, Mrs Garrido. This Government is the first interested party to judge this issue, Mrs Garrido, which has not yet occurred, and to be clarified as soon as possible. As you have rightly said, a few days ago we have heard the decision of the Judge of the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Bilbao to issue the opening of an oral trial. And, as you said, the Basque Government requested such an opening by evacuating its last complaint procedure on 23 December. Now, separate speeches, it is the turn to listen to justice and wait for the verdict. Because, Mrs. Garrido, we respect justice. We'll let him act freely and independently. And we invite you, from the utmost respect, also from this House to join in this approach of institutional responsibility. The case was thoroughly debated in this Parliament, especially in the years 2010 and 2011, by the committee of inquiry set up for this purpose. There were many people who came to present their story in the commission, and as a result of the work done, a report of conclusions and recommendations was prepared, a report that the Department of Health has taken into consideration. From the Government we understand and assume that this phase has already ended, this case is currently in the hands of justice, and it is up to it to issue a verdict. And, of course, it will be up to the Government, depending on the verdict of the judicial process, to act accordingly, and we will do so. For this reason, in order to defend the general interest, the Executive remains in the judicial process. Mrs Garrido, the government of Patxi López, the government of the lehendakari Urkullu, has never withdrawn. He is maintained as a civil actor in order to be able to claim compensation if there is evidence that there has been any patrimonial breakdown. Mrs Garrido, you say that the Basque Government maintains a discrepancy with the Prosecutor's Office. I have to tell you, and I suppose you will agree with me, that as long as there is no verdict, we can have our own opinion, especially if it is based, as is the case, on the criterion of the Government's legal services. I will remind you of the existence of no more than nine previous proceedings (two criminal proceedings and seven administrative disputes). Nine cases concerning these recruitments, all of which have been resolved before without convictions, which, although you seem to disregard or take into account, the Government's legal services understand that they should be on the table when adopting a position. It should also be clarified that, while the Ministry of Public Prosecutions is responsible for safeguarding in abstract terms the whole of legality and prosecuting the alleged criminal acts, the Executive is responsible for the characterization of the case (which, as I have said, has not been withdrawn) and for defending the interests, representing the interests of Basque citizens. The Government's legal services have carefully analysed the case and have concluded that it is appropriate to retain the Government's character as a civil actor. Thus, if the court ruled that there had been a criminal offence and that such an offence would result in economic damage to the public coffers, the Government would seek compensation for the possible loss of property, i.e. it would take appropriate measures to ensure that the corresponding financial amount was returned. Be assured that we will act with the utmost responsibility and rigour, as is and will be the norm in this Government. I don't share your stage. Probably the only objective is to take advantage of an episode that happened ten years ago to try to undermine the confidence that Basque society has shown in the Basque Nationalist Party, which, together with the Socialist Party, supports this government and which is intended to be identified in plots, according to the current cases, when none of this exists, as has been demonstrated in the judicial proceedings completed to date. The Lehendakari Urkullu and the people we make up this government are committed to rigorous, accountable and transparent management. Indeed, already in its first investiture debate, held in December 2012, the lehendakari Urkullu raised the need to regain the ethical sense of the policy, and assumed the firm commitment to take measures that would help to make this recovery effective; a commitment that materialized in the last legislature with various measures and actions that we maintain in full in the current legislature. In the Basque Government we believe and bet on good governance and the rigorous management of public resources, with a responsible exercise of the public service. Precisely with the aim of advancing in this line, in order to respond to the paradigms was adopted in this Parliament, in the previous legislature, Law 1/2014, Regulator of the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges, law that was subsequently developed in Decree 156/2016, on obligations and rights of public office staff. In the same vein, the Basque Government, also in the previous legislature, passed the bill on transparency, citizen participation and good governance in the Basque public sector, which unfortunately was not approved by this House. The aim of the project was to broaden and strengthen the transparency and publicity of administrative activity, good governance, and the evaluation of public policies. So, Mrs Garrido, the firm wager that RedMork makes for management, clear and sharp, is undeniable, I don't think any one would doubt that. Therefore, in regard to this case, which has happened ten years ago, let us leave justice to do and act in the same way. In fact, it belongs to the court to give the judicial decision of the case. Mrs Garrido, let us therefore let the courts act, and let it be the latter who decides whether there has been a criminal offence or not, whether there has been economic harm or not. Do not go ahead with events, when it does not yet correspond. Do not make parallel trials without legal guarantees. Although you do not seem to respect it, the presumption of innocence is a right that corresponds to any accused person in criminal proceedings, until a final judgement establishes his conviction. Thus, even in this case, accused persons are entitled to the presumption of innocence. I insist, we cannot say that there have been nine cases resolved previously in relation to this case. This case goes to the records of the Eucomunciation Court of Justice to make it clear as soon as possible. And once we know the sentence, we will treat the court courts of justice according to what has been specified. We therefore stand firm in our full readiness to cooperate with the justice system, in the interests of the prompt resolution of the case. And once the final verdict is reached, this Government will be consistent with what the court decides and act accordingly. In the meantime, Mrs Garrido, we will continue to focus our efforts on what constitutes our highest responsibility and priority, that is, in my case in the consolidation of the Basque health system, my first priority as a health adviser to this Government. And as I know, Mrs. Garrido, that you have a good view, I invite you again, when you come down, to look at that photograph to see if you find me. And I take it it must have been that you brought her in and didn't look at her before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Good look, yeah. I recognize you that I am now in revisions and graduation process, that's why I'm already of age, but a yes has good memory. And I can remind you that I know very well that you – and you have never denied it – signed that statement, and you are among the 17 people who signed that statement. And if not, get out here then and lie to him. But you know that you signed that statement, calling the proceedings of the commission of inquiry and the work that was being done at that time in the commission of inquiry nauseating. And I could also remind you of the subsequent statements you have made regarding this commission of inquiry and also the work of justice. Man, I recognize you as an important piece of paper, especially in view of your statements and that you have not been impartial in this matter, including your own relationship and connection with some people who are accused today, and also your connection with the then Health Adviser, Mr Inclán. Something says the investigation, and that's why five crimes are charged, the accused are charged with five crimes with penalties... It is just that we are not talking, Mr. Counsellor, about a timely episode, just as you sent it today to the rostrum. We are talking about five crimes, we are talking about forty years in prison, we are talking about EUR 6.8 million in compensation, and we are talking about the Basque Government, in response to these prison requests, the Government has not filed a statement of indictment presenting no prison sentence. Zero prison sentences. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, a punctual episode, no. Man, they call attention to two things. Let them come here to talk about respect for justice, when you brought an initiative here or supported an initiative in this House that seeks to interfere with a judicial pronouncement. Truth is, you have to have... you have to really have... That is political coherence, and, of course, convictions in principles that are clearly left in question, when one sees, I say, the demonstrations he does and the actions of his group yesterday, voting for what they voted. I mean, we have to respect justice, we don't have to interfere in court proceedings... That's right, in other people's, that's right. When they affect us, we have to let justice act. Look, Mr. Counsellor, and I'm going to address Mr. Lehendakari now, because he was the one to whom this inquiry was addressed: I regret that you didn't have the courage and courage to go out to this rostrum today, because the one who had to come out here today to give his face and explain this to all the Basques and all the Basques was you. Because you are the one who presides over the government that has decided, we do not know on what basis... Mr Erkoreka told us that according to certain legal reports. Well, I don't know. The legal reports, with all my respect for the professionals who make the legal reports, as jurists, what a coincidence that in these matters they always maintain the criterion not that they have held punctually by the Basque Nationalist Party or the Government, but that they continue to maintain the Basque Nationalist Party already from those moments when the councilman himself supported those statements in which he denied any irregularity and used such qualifications. What a coincidence, that the legal services of the Basque Government have a radically opposed approach to the prosecution's approach in one of the most serious cases of corruption. You were, Mr Lehendakari, the one who had to come out here today, because the question was very clear: to see what was the Government's purpose to maintain that radical discrepancy with the Prosecutor's Office by avoiding the request for imprisonment of the accused in the well-known Margüello case. No, no, he didn't explain it. And I believe that a person who has had an involvement, and with very partial statements and very much part in this matter, was not the most suitable person. And I think that you were wrong to delegate that responsibility to the councillor. It's just that you here are protecting and protecting people clearly. You are protecting them, because you with your actions have been inhibited in the exercise of your responsibility, which was to have requested or at least to have studied and had the opportunity to request prison sentences, when the Prosecutor's Office requests forty years of imprisonment. You, of course, will know what you are doing, you will know what you are hiding, you will know who you are hiding from, but it is clear that the shadow of suspicion is there. But, as we are facing a judicial process that we all want to bring to an end as soon as possible, and justice never fails and we trust in justice, let us hope that this case will be clarified as soon as possible, including all its ramifications, and that we will get to where we have to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u53	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u54	Garrido andrea, first of all, I'm glad you're in a visual review process, because I didn't want to think you lied when you looked at the photo. I will repeat to you again: in the Government we have full confidence in justice. You and I... as much as you want to challenge the lehendakari Urkullu in this case, you know it has nothing to do with it. The criterion corresponds to the legal services of the Government. Look, as you know, I am a doctor, I am not an expert in law, and therefore, on such a serious issue as this, in order to act rigorously, I must rely on the legal services approach, so that the Basque Government can continue to take steps with security and institutional responsibility. I insist, I insist, that the Government is the first interested party in this matter to be judged and clarified as soon as possible. The decision has been taken to request the opening of an oral trial and to remain in the proceedings as a civil actor in order to be able to seek compensation for possible economic damage. As I mentioned in the previous intervention, it is up to the court to decide whether or not there was a possible patrimonial breach for the Administration and, if there were, to quantify it. In any event, let me remind you that the EUR 6.8 million that you have cited, which the prosecutor claims as economic injury, as you are sure to know, corresponds to the total amount of the entire provision of services in the contract in question. This amount cannot be taken as if it were an economic injury in its entirety, since all services were provided in the agreed contractual terms. And I do not tell you, it is not my opinion, that I do not have it, but that the directors of the Office of Economic Control of two successive governments appeared in the case and denied the existence of such an economic breach. In your statements... I will read to you the statement: "The contracted services were performed in the agreed terms and in accordance with the established rates". And the report itself issued by the Office of Economic Control in 2010 states – and I will read it again textually – "Payment is justified if the service has actually been provided and the price is the contract". Moreover, the Provincial Court of Bizkaia itself recognizes that it may be the subject of debate if there could or could not be an effective economically evaluable injury to the public administration. It may also be appropriate to recall at this point the theory of unjust enrichment, which comes to say that even if a contract for legal defects of the contract is annulled, if it turns out that the benefit has been made by the contractor cannot be claimed after not making the corresponding payment. And I don't understand it: this is what the doctrine of the Supreme Court has been saying. In this regard, it should be recalled that all services were provided in the agreed contractual terms. All the signed services were provided on the terms agreed on the contract. With regard to the statement that we signed at the time, which seems to be so keen on you, I must remind you that it was not a manifesto against judicial proceedings, not even a manifesto in favour of the defendants, but a statement that called for transparency, accountability and rigour in the commission of inquiry, because it was witnessing, as you well know, weekly leaks of data to the media, which neither should have happened nor helped the investigation being carried out. Thus, Ararteko himself, in his resolution of 5 July 2010, concluded that there were reasonable doubts as to the degree of forcefulness of the indications of existing irregularities, a note which obliges special caution in making the news on this matter public. In any case, and finally, at the risk of being repetitive, we are dealing with a court case. Let us allow justice to carry out its work, and the persons investigated to provide the appropriate explanations in this regard. Neither in the government nor in the Basque Nationalist Party do we protect anyone, nor will we ask them for whatsapp to be strong. For my part, as Health Adviser, I can assure you that the management of public resources is carried out with responsibility and rigour, and that all contracts are carried out with exquisite compliance with the provisions of the Public Sector Contracts Act. Eskerrik asko. We'll wait for the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, written by the Congressman of the Mireguos de Gauna EH Collectal team to the president, about his plans to go beyond the management of the legal law enforcement of modern legal frames." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u56	Thank you very much. Congressman and ladies, thank you. Mr. and Mrs. Chief, thank you. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. Look, in the last 15 days, we've been following the list of plans and romances that all the members of your government have made for the next four years. And we have followed them with great care and prevention on one point, not just because we can't agree on some things, and because we might perhaps make other policies, but that's just the normal combustio. Our source of uneasiness was another, and the chief source of uneasiness is, because we have seen many of the members of the Government see many obstacles in their everyday life and their everyday existence, and because, when they are identified, many and many of them have told us whence they came from, and because they have told us that they have been derived from Madrid or Spain. And because it seems to us, unfortunately, that you have made a diagnosis of obstacles, that you agree with the diagnosis that we make, but that you have not a whole plan to face these difficulties. We are concerned, because you yourself place in Spain, in restrictive legislation, in politicized courts, a number of problems to carry out important policies for this country, and yet we do not think that you are putting on the table a plan to deal with this problem. The chairman of the board, for instance, is concerned because the price of energy for the competitive activity of industry is enormous, and he is right, and we have no power to operate in that way at the moment. And Mrs. Uriarte is spending a lot of energy trying to solve the circumstances that Lomc has created us, and she probably hasn't fixed them, and she'll probably have her hands tied now. And we heard Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia say she needs more edge-to-edge, but she doesn't know how she'll be able to hire them. And the same may happen to Mr. Darpón or to many other departments. Under the General, and the Government in the whole, has been obliged to accept the defence-ground established by the Spanish Government, not by Brusel, but by the Spanish Government, the same established by the Spanish State as the autonomous of the Spanish communities, in spite of which I shall admit that the Minister Ogasun, the Minister Montor, had had a meeting with Mr. Subjugated. But the suicide limit is the same. We'll soon find out when you bring in the budgets how this government intends to manage. You've put these problems on our table every day and we've got more. You must be under the circumstances, gentlemen, personally, but as a country, I believe that we are all really leading challenges. For 2007, the coupe's year hasn't been undone and you'll have to decide how to contact it. As it must be decided what to do for the last five years, and without forgetting that we should need a new law for 2017-2021 years. And in Navarro they have the same sort of affairs as we have here, and the counselors of Aran, and they themselves. We know the hatred with which the division of this people has been divided, and the Convent and the Concertation, even if all who have heard it say so, and if those who have worked in it say that it would be the best way to negotiate it. We may say all these and more, but in this sense my questions are beginning to accumulate. For instance, this little autogony, which we have in mind of this government, to defend itself with the government of Navarre, and what are these designs to be? Or we would like to know how you would see this government, or would it be ready to allow it in a difficult political society, in this complicated and difficult negotiation, the participation of this Parliament. I don't just say it. For when the Chief of the People of Erkorekes insisted upon this parliament, and said that this Parliament should be at the head of the matter, it seems to me that there may also be a way of resisting to examine this way, if it be but a means of striking one another. You told us, Mr Erkoreka, that Spain's attitude leaves us in the open, that there is no guarantee that the Basque Government will run out of the skills we already have from night to morning, and that we will get new ones. And yet we have no refuge from this situation. Mr. Erkorek told us on the committee that the government's plan was to sue the leaks, to try to get the interpretations, to protect the work of this parliament. You told us all this, but it seems to me that we must give a great leap as a people to upset this situation, or repeat the same thing that has happened in the past years, and sometimes to the Spanish governments, according to their comencindations, some things are easier, but when they are not convenient, return again to what has been repeated in the past and the last years. As I tell you, questions only accumulate. For example, what time do you place in order to regain your absent powers? Have you any intention of continuing to claim jurisdictions, and, if you believe in any doubtfulness and compact, in matters which this people does not yet exercise and cultivate? For example, we heard that in what you've signed the Eucasian Party and in the government club of PSE, it's just that we've been hearing over and over and over and over again, and that's how you remember us to be your job priority. It's totally important, and it's a priority for us too. But there are those that are necessary for the benefit of employment, and are not in our power: we have no use for working together, no capacity for managing the employment policies as a whole. Spain tells us to-day, and to-morrow, that she is almost in the condition of the kiebrate, and that the supply of pensions is being emptied: Does this government have a structure to prevent it (for example, as has lately been said by Euscal economists) that it is viable? Do you really believe in a searchivity? And how you define it, as it often seems to me, that the Spanish Government does frequent meetings with you, but does not make the same communication. What security do you see so often, Mr. President, in order to complete this publicity you have proclaimed? It seems to us that we are not present in the presence of a natural phenomenon and in the presence of a divine punishment, and that we have means to leap like a people in order to give great leaps. You've asked us not to give up. And it seems to us that the democratic decision of the people will be important to place it in the midst of this situation. Our team wants to know, in that sense, what's the plan of fun, what time it's going to run, to face these daily obstructions. This town, in front of its structure, denies this nation the right to enter town and decision, what specific purpose is the Euskalk's. As I said to you, because I feel like we're in a very special moment and we can jump together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. At last the question was: "What will you do when you think that it is necessary to get all the implements and resources needed to supply the needs of Arambaba, Biscay, and Gipuzian people? "I don't know. That was the question he was planning on his cause, and I'll answer that. The Navarro? You're asking. With the Navarre, as you know, we're working together. And of several parts in common (and of one of them, of the Economic Covenant, or of the Economic Conbenius Economic) between them, between the Government of Navarre, and the Esunomia of Navarre, which is to be planned in the presence of the Spanish Government. It's a question of superiority. We have just pointed out the difference through the method of the Economic Testament, and individuality with its support. Lord Erkora said the resistance. No, he didn't say resistance. What he said was that the answer should be given. No resistance, answer. And anyway, getting all the equipment and all the hands you need to provide for the needs of the population, it's the goal of Eusk0. And not just the goal of this Eukong, but I'd say it in the last 80 years, and, no doubt, even in the last four years. That's what we're going on in the Basque organization. You know him well, Mrs. Irritrez, what you've done. You know very well that this was the axis of our work to promote the structure of Euskakia upon solid foundations. And therefore, if you come now to this way, it will be much easier for us to defend the tools and uses of our people, and also to employ them in an efficient manner. From us, at any rate, we shall continue to do it from now on, and encourage conversation, alliance, and arrangement as far as we can. After all, we'll all have to give the quantum leap you're talking about, and it'll be more substantial if we do it together. It is clear that we live in a new political age in Basques, clearly we have a chance to build a new future. But, yes, as I said at other times, Euskakia wasn't born today. We have made a road, and this is why today the euscal road does not start from zero. Thanks to the labor of many people, this people has gone through a lot of leaps, thanks to the labor of many people, we have accomplished a great deal of tools and power to satisfy the wants of the community. To admit and confess the work of all these people would be a quantum and positive leap from you, Mrs. Irrez; it would be a strong foundation to be able to give and to think and accept what has been built before. You said you didn't see any firmness in the constructions. Why do you rely on that statement? How did we get our current auto-engineer? How did you manage to defend what we have? How did you get the quantum leaps you made? Or hasn't the quantum leaps been given so far? Eighty years ago, the first Autonomy was accepted by the Eukong firm. This solidity succeeded afterwards in the State of Guernica, or the Economic Covenant. Thanks to this firmness, all the instruments and powers which have been obtained have been obtained. Today, we are defending our self-interest with complete firmness, and in this way it has been important that the power which we have just formed in this legislature. We have explained our purpose clearly and distinctly: self-recognized, that is to say, to give him a new quantum leap. Auto-response update. We don't start from scratch on this road either. For the past four years, we've had an experience, we've been studying the contributions of many people, we've received a documentation and we've studied it. So we don't start from zero here, either. We know we need to find the most comprehensive harmony of the different ones, and that's what's happening and what's going on. We know that we need a strong foundation for writing and proposing a new articulate text to agree and accept. We have an auto-pilot, and that's why now we have a chance to update, renew, and deeper. We are now desirous to obtain a new political compact, which will support the vast majority of the Basques, which will respect the political will which the citizens of the Basques declare democraticly. We will defend this purpose with complete firmness. Mrs Iriarte, there is no doubt that a response strategy is needed, and also a proposal strategy. It is necessary to share a common diagnosis, and this is the number one objective of the self-government presentation. The proposal to update self-government must be made within the plurinational framework, despite the absence of a truly plurinational state, and from respect for our uniqueness. History offers us the formula of the historical rights of the foral territories, also the guarantee of bilaterality through the foral pass or overcard. I have raised the appropriateness of its updating, legally articulating the postponement of the rules issued by the Government of the State until their interpretation and effective implementation are negotiated. I plan to update self-government with the vision of the European Union and a new relational system. Formulas and methods of cooperation with the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque territories of Iparralde need to be established. Also a new system of political-institutional relations between the Spanish State and the Basque Country. The inertia of the debate on the way or model of the relationship between Euskadi and the State could lead us to conclude that the main need to be addressed at this time is to define and propose a concrete alternative, and yet I believe that the presentation of self-government, of which you are a part, is the place where all the work has to be done until the final proposal is reached. In the meantime, I believe we can continue to make qualitative leaps: to recognize that we do not start from scratch, to recognize institutionalization as a dynamic and gradual process, to defend what has been built so far and to demand full compliance with what is our responsibility by law. To do so unanimously and absolutely majority would be a sign to Basque society, it would be a qualitative pedagogical leap that would show that the fundamental interest is that Euskadi maintain his personality, that he maintains his place and that he maintains his status, and that he can progress in his self-government and in the acquisition of tools that strengthen his decision-making and interlocutory capacities. As I said before this new challenge, we do not start from zero, and at least from us we have introduced our project by writing. You said you didn't feel good, like I said before. Is there a lack of firmness? It appears in the cirripedes, Madam Irrez; you did not say it, but it shows itself in the causes of the want of firmness. Have you read in September 2015 all the reports published in this legislation? Can you read the only particular proposal that has been proposed in this legislature a year ago? We want to build a new future, respecting and confessing the course we've made. We're proposing a page of trajectory to improve our tools and manual management to penetrate the automatically. Always through agreement and alliance. We want agreement, yes, and we'll work on the agreement. The agreement that supports this Government, to which you have mentioned, highlights the priority of achieving more and better self-government, a priority that we will firmly defend. We share the objective of defending Basque self-government in the face of the re-centralizing spirit of the State, the objective of claiming the self-government that we have already recognized, of demanding the transfer of the pending instruments and competences. Place? We have the term of this legislature, while working on the self-government paper. I firmly defend, yes, bilaterality as the central axis of my conception of self-government. Bilaterality based on the model of the economic concert. I do not share the contempt with which you in general refer to the task of managing the limits of the current political-legal framework, as you also say in your justification, Mrs Iriarte. Perhaps, if Mrs Larrion had been here, she would have relied on the justification of the inquiry. I assure you that this is a fundamental task for Euskadi. It means ensuring health, ensuring education, guaranteeing social policies; it means doing industrial policy; it means doing environmental and territorial development policy, promoting employment, culture or Basque. Look, the reality of our self-government is singular. The future is open, and let us agree on its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u60	A few little shades, Mr. Urkullu. Not with disappointment; that's what I say and believe me. It may perhaps seem to you that some terms are not the most pleasing, but you will not be disappointed at any moment in the session of the Basque Country. I promise. As for our welcomes, we've been very much served, and I hope that this welcome of welcome ends. In any case, if it is necessary to leap, I am ready to give this leap to-day, and although it is in shades and in the first few steps, this people has accomplished many things in their work. And, as you said, that's a leap from me and I'm telling you, the Basque People is part of the Union. You're telling me you believe in humanity, that you believe in harmony and that you believe in the pact. And I'd like to believe it, too, Mr. Urkullu. Do not imagine that the people of Eusalia would wish to accomplish this state by different relations, and that when they would not give it that leap, there should be a state much more democratic, as in other countries of Europe; and that when they had negotiated together in a more searching manner, they would be able to accomplish some answers and agreements and compacts. It would be much easier: It was agreed, that the election campaign should be formed, as each of them has given his opinion, and arrived in other European countries. But what we see in Spain is, that the governments which have faced us for many years before, do not make this democratic step, at least appear to be very near. And only from remembering the near and the last days, I shall say, when Catalonia has made a report of her new steps, what reply the Spanish Government has given her, and what measures the Spanish Government has said, will take. And in this sense, I believe that we are also placed before a new challenge by the Spanish Government in the presence of Catalonia. What will this government do in front of this situation? And what will this government do if Catalonia does that refendum? What faces are we going to be left? I don't know whether you believe it or not can happen, but it may happen, I think there are possibilities, and I think that this government would have to say something even in front of it. I think there'll be another challenge. I don't know if Mr. Erkoreka told us to resist or to work. I think he insisted, but it doesn't matter, we won't get involved in words. What I understood at last was that he asked this parliament to join him, because he did not allow us to go any further than he had done by the judicial road, by the political road, and by the practice of Spain. The word, however, or the other word, is not the same to me, for it was at last the spirit of it; but I shall see what the precise word was. Mr. Urkullu, we are prepared to give that leap, and because you told me what you told me about that leap, I myself have here, in this tribe, the first one in value and no more. Let's jump. But I also tell you, I think, that the state before us will have to change much in order to be able to believe, both in pacy and in harmony. They will do it when they come, and when they are not convenient they will do the contrary. At least they've shown us that in the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I am glad to hear from some political force in the EH Collect, or if some one has despised our system, which has now been acknowledged. And based on it, I think we have a chance to increase a quantum leap in Euskadia's self-organization. I think we have a choice, always based on what we've built up so far. And I think we have a choice because I don't think the legal boundaries we or are cannot be exceeded. I think. And that's politics and that's what politics are for. The constitution itself, in its first additional constitution, protects the historical rights of the historical regions. And even the additional regulations of the State of Guernica are admitted by the admission of a autonomy, or of a species of autonomy, that the Basque people can by no means deny that the rights derived from their history may be developed in another manner. So I think there's a chance of talking about the quantum leap on the team of self-egozer and we could all agree on the way to the agreement. Nolanahi ere, Nizuke Snake, Iriarte andrea, that this Parliament has taken on the challenge of seeking a broad and plural agreement on the future of self-government, and the Government and I as lehendakari will participate and collaborate in this debate from the reality of our nationality, that is, from the principle of nationality. You know that my position is given by respect for the democratic principle and the principle of legality, and I reiterate something that I have already firmly defended in this Parliament: it is time to move forward in a new political framework of coexistence in Euskadi that, on the basis of the institutional consensus reached in this Parliament, articulates a pact with the State and is ratified by Basque society. This is the stated and achievable goal, as long as we give up winning each other with short regattas, because no solution is better than an agreed solution, Mrs Iriarte. We have to work on that agreement. We all have to build bridges. I think we've learned something, and this is what we have to build the future together. This is what we need to share a real political purpose. This is a solid foundation to continue to progress in the Basque organization. A month ago, Navarre integrates with their region. I've been to Baion this week, and the North now begins at the beginning of 80 years ago and has started its course back 40 years ago. We defend this way, and we wish to be our companions on that road. You, too, have welcomed the decision taken by Nafarro, and the first step the North has made, to this first step on the organizational stage. Through realism and interaction, this country has a real chance of making a quantum leap. In short, Mrs Iriarte, and responding to the literality of her inquiry, first of all, it is up to us to defend the self-government achieved and to denounce together the strategy of re-centralisation of the State. We are demonstrating this through the defence of the laws adopted by this Parliament that the Spanish Government is subject to continuous recourse. It is up to us to preserve the political capacity of this Parliament and to defend our own powers. Secondly, we must not forget that the Statute of Gernika has been endorsed by Basque society, it is law, and as such it must be complied with in its entirety. This has been strongly and routinely demanded by the advisers in their appearances before this House. That is also what I have claimed before the President of the Spanish Government, Mariano Rajoy. And it's not enough. It is very important to remember that it was the society itself that decided to approve the Statute of Gernika, and I would like to make a direct appeal to society to raise awareness and awareness that the State is failing to comply with its decision. It is up to Basque society itself to join in defending our own self-government. We must unite the forces of the institutions and of the whole of Basque society to achieve the fulfilment of the statutory mandate in spirit and letter. Only in this way will we get all the tools of self-government. And now move forward and deepen self-government, bring it into line with the plurinational reality of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Party, Carmello Barrio Barroja, to the president, a meeting made by some of the directors of the EAJ, about Loziz Ruiz, the terrorist. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u64	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mr. lehendakari, it was a shock, a deep disgust to see the killer Kubati with Mr. Aurrekoetxea and other members of his party in Sabin Etxea. The PNV received in December in Sabin Etxea these leaders from a collective of support to the prisoners of ETA, and in the meeting participated those leaders of the PNV and Antton López Ruiz, "Kubati", who, as everyone knows, was convicted for thirteen murders and many more crimes, and of course still investigated by the justice system. I just want to remind you of your own plan of peace and coexistence, in force, Mr Lehendakari. The victims of terrorism have considered the encounter with one of the bloodiest, bloodiest ages unworthy, and in view of what has happened we ask you to answer how you appreciate the meeting held by the PNV, in the central headquarters, with the López Ruiz "Kubati" age. Is there no zero tolerance here, Mr. Lehendakari? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, it is a public meeting that enters into the normality of the relations that the Basque Nationalist Party maintains with people, with institutions, with associations and with all political parties. And I am not going to go in and evaluate the meetings held by political parties or institutions. If you ask me about the meetings held by the Lehendakari or people representing this Government, I will gladly answer you, Mr Barrio. I respect the views of the victims, and I think we will do well not to debate these issues in public. In any case, you have cited two persons who have been convicted and have already served their sentences or their sentences, and therefore, according to justice, they have no connection with ETA, Mr Barrio. They are persons who have full freedom to exercise their civil and political rights. If you have other data, it would be good for you to make them available to the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u68	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, the public meeting, yes, but, normality?, normality a meeting with the killer Kubati? Kubati is the essence of ETA! Kubati is what he stands for! What does your party have, Mr. Lehendakari...? Because we are talking about the Peace and Co-existence Plan, strategic line 4, relationship with the victims of terrorism. What does your party have to negotiate with killer Kubati? How can you legitimize these attitudes simply with the presence, with such public meetings? You used to talk about respect and dignity in connection with a previous intervention, and that is what you should control right now, these expressions, such as that meeting that causes pain to many people, to the victims of terrorism and to many more Basques. And many more people are painful to see Kubati, that figure of horror and crime, gathered with a political party, negotiating what, Mr. lehendakari? I mean, couldn't you stop a meeting with a killer like Kubati? Did it look okay to you? It is relaxing the demand that we all thought had to be raised in relation to ETA. I mean, is the ethical floor becoming something else, some ethical basement? I want to tell you, Kubati was sentenced to 1,210 years for thirteen murders and ten frustrated murders. Here are his victims: Dolores González Catarain (history is impressive), electrician Juan Sánchez Sierro, one of the worst attacks was the one committed in San Sebastián on October 5, 1987 in which he murdered three members of the Garrido family (General Garrido, his wife and the minor of his children)... I mean, what's to negotiate? How can the Basque Nationalist Party meet with Kubati, to talk about what? What are they negotiating? I mean, that... Mr Lehendakari, you said the "normality" of meetings. That meeting is not normal! Kubati has not repented, Kubati does not cooperate with justice, has yet to respond to crimes committed, is being investigated. The victims have said that such meetings are unworthy. Mr Lehendakari, answer me: what do you have to negotiate your party with Kubati?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u69	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I understand that as long as the People's Party does not change its organizational structure, where one is all, in the People's Party, you ask me the question about a political formation in which bicephaly exists. Look, I respect this meeting as respect for those who can maintain other political parties or institutions. And you ask what the Basque Nationalist Party has to negotiate, assuming that Mr.Kubati is still someone who is persecuted for justice. Mr Barrio, I insist, I respect this meeting as a respect for those who can maintain other political parties or institutions, including, for example, that which the Spanish Government has maintained under the chairmanship of Aznar with ETA leaders in 1999. I say this knowing, as you know, that I applauded and I continue to applaud a dialogue that I considered necessary and I continue to consider necessary, Mr Barrio. Like the Aznar Government with the leaders of ETA in 1999, then negotiating, not dialogue: negotiating. He has referred to the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and it will allow me to highlight the paradoxical attitude of the People's Party in relation to the issues of peace, memory and co-existence in this Parliament. It is paradoxical that they do not want to dialogue and work on the paper on memory and coexistence and they do want to discuss and discuss this matter. Look, it's your right, Mr. Barrio, although I don't share your judgment, because it's not easy to understand. In any case, I regret that you have decided not to participate in the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence, which is the forum of dialogue and encounter to advance the orderly end of violence and terrorism, memory in relation to the past, and future coexistence. I invite you to take the step and work with the rest of the political parties in the Presentation of Memory and Co-existence. I ask you to reconsider your decision and to participate in the full and normalised political dialogue in Euskadi. And I would also ask you to ask the questions that correspond to who is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: The question was, that together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos team, the mass of bombards on the civil population of Bilbo, had been talked of only one particular fact of the statements of the prisoners of the rebel party who had been killed. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. President. Eighty years have passed since the Francoist army bombarded the civilian population of Bilbao, as you well know. Specifically, they began on 25 September 1936 and lasted until June 1937, causing a large number of victims who unfortunately could not be properly accounted for. In this context, 224 prisoners were killed on 4 January 1937 in the prisons of Larrinaga, Carmelo, Angeles Custodios and Casa Galera in Bilbao. They were imprisoned for their alleged support for the coup, which does not mean that this murder is not condemnable. My specific question is why you considered that on 25 September 2016, on the eightieth anniversary of the start of the bombings, it was not timely, or did not consider it appropriate to make any kind of statement, and instead on the 4th of January, on the anniversary of the assault on prisons, you did consider it opportune, writing a small article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Hernández, hardly on September 25, 2016, the day of election day, I would have been allowed to do no act. Hardly, Mr. Hernández. In any case, I have participated and will participate in all kinds of acts of recognition of the historical memory and denunciation of the fascist uprising and the crimes of Francoism. The statement of 4 January was important, giving continuity to an honest self-criticism exercise of the lehendakari Agirre. The commitment to human rights and a democratic memory is translated with authenticity and strength when it recognizes its own mistakes. You're talking about September 25, 2016, and I remind you that two years earlier, in November 2014, and in November 2014, the government approved the core agenda of historical memory priorities. And this first programme, or this structured programme, was presented with the aim of defining, based on international law, a map of actions in the field of historical memory. These actions, focusing on the right to truth, justice and reparation of victims, are under way. Thus, the plan for the search for and identification of missing persons is carried out; the basic report of human rights violations in the franchising is carried out; the Dignity Columbar to host the remains of missing persons is inaugurated this Monday (you were present). Today I reiterate the ideas expressed there, which I quote: "The columbar is one more step in the recovery of historical memory, representing what unites us above what divides us. Basque society knows the immense suffering of families. We will work to recover your memory and all your memories, because the time of silence and darkness is over." Don't worry, Mr Hernández, that I will participate in all kinds of acts in recognition of the historical memory and denunciation of the fascist uprising and the crimes of Francoism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u76	Thank you for your answer, lehendakari. It is true that the 25 would indeed have been complicated. It could have been the 26th; I don't think that's the point. The aim of our question is not to censor its policy with regard to historical memory, in which it is true that we have differences and I have found in these years that there has been a lack of sensitivity in many respects with regard to some memory associations and with regard to some historical organizations that participated in the war. But that was not the purpose of my question. The purpose of my question was to try to understand why you considered it opportune to write that article regarding this fact that we share that it is condemnable... We do not intend to censure him for his intention to write these facts in this way, but we do not understand that it is done when these facts occur in a broader context and, within that framework, it was not done, on the eightyth anniversary of those bombings, that no other kind of declaration of this kind was made on his part. I didn't come to censor you... And you tell me here the things that you seem to have done in the matter of historical memory, and I have not come to censor that, nor have I told you about that. I asked you about that particular fact, because we do not understand that these statements are made, or that little article you wrote, because it is framed in that broader context of indiscriminate bombings against the civilian population, and we do not know that there would have been that other part. That is the purpose of this question that we are asking you. It is true that on Monday I was at the inauguration of the columbarium, and it is also true that his statements seemed to us to my political group..., and I also contrasted it with organizations of historical memory and also with the Communist Party, to which you know I belong, and they seemed right to us. This time they seemed right to us. It is also true that we had already expressed that the place of columbarium did not seem to us to be the most appropriate, because it does not capture the opinion of all sensibilities, but this was not the objective today. My goal, as I say to you, was to try to understand why you considered it appropriate to make those statements and not to frame them in the general context of those bombings, which, as you know well, were also criminal murders of many people in Euskadi, from Irun to Bilbao, passing through Durango and Gernika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Vice-Governor. Mr Hernandez, the historical memory (and to that I appeal, to the historical memory) I understand that it is of everyone, it is of everything, it is of everyone and it is for everyone. So, on the 4th of January, too. Also on the 4th of January. And the integral historical memory is a commitment of our Government, and we will keep it under the premise of preserving the entire memory for all people. We have done so and will continue to do so throughout this year 2017, in which 80 years are coming, among other events, also of those you have cited, the bombings of Durango, Gernika and other Basque localities. Also last year the bombing of Otxandio, on 22 July. You insisted on September 25, 2016, and I will also tell you that long before, on June 18, 2016, I already participated as lehendakari in an event of remembrance organized precisely on the eve of the taking of Bilbao by Francoist troops. And this week, as you have also reiterated, on the occasion of the inauguration of the columbarium we have all, fortunately, also gathered the memorialist associations (also the memorialist associations), to remember and honor each and every one of the unjustly retaliated persons eighty years ago. You can always do more; the important thing is that we work together to do it together, because, as I also said on Monday, our unity is the best recognition and reparation we can offer to your memory. And that's what I'm committed to, Mr. Hernandez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Kortja, Ibañez EH Collectors to the president, about the Entrgues and Jobs combined." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u80	Congressman, good day. The whole congregation of the legislature made the exact and correct request for you the week before. In short, he asked for his successor: "In order to ensure that the commitment to the establishment of decent employment will succeed in efficiency and in an integrated view, the parliament demands that the President should immediately place in one department all the cares he cares of Encygu and the work, and restore the cares of justice in another department, and in the same way to optimize and encourage the civil staff of the public administration, in order to reduce the political offices of the free administration." The law gives the President the power of taking decisions which he thinks necessary to create the government; what is it, Mr. President, that you apply your judgment to keep in one section all the cares that concern the people and the work, according to the necessity of fulfilling the order of the legislature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Kortja, it's the president's responsibility to divide the compounds and the functions inside. So it's decided that you remembered in the 7th century. in the article, and this law was admitted by the parliament. He's a Eukong and plays together in all his politics, especially in business politics. The first thing I'm talking about is fun, like I was talking about in the morning, not just for a department or two, not even for two. We're getting ready for a new eplegu program. We were even asked to meet the whole meeting of yesterday, and we are already working for a clear purpose: Encrease employment and revive economy growth. More than one department will take initiative in this program, but the goal will be the only one: To get more and better employment. It's a goal and it's for fun, and it's a priority to all the organizations and society. The Government is one and acts in a collegial and coordinated manner. The distribution of functions, as you have recalled, corresponds to the lehendakari (art. 7 of the Government Act). And employment is a priority goal of the entire government, not just a department. And, as much as job competence was combined with that of work, in one department, that would not be the department that worked on employment issues either, because employment is a government-wide priority. And given the priority, I have decided to place in the Department of Employment and Social Policy all actions, initiatives and specific programmes aimed at promoting employment. I am referring to programmes for the unemployed, the management of Lanbide, youth employment, training for job placement, local and regional employment plans. And, on the other hand, I believe that the specific areas related to occupational safety, labour inspection and social dialogue are subjects with sufficient entity to give them specific and own attention. Both Departments of Employment and Social Policy and the Department of Labour and Justice, as well as others, as demonstrated in the agreement of 22 July, with the departments then of Economic Development and Competitiveness and of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture – I insist – both departments, as well as others, have common work spaces, as their subjects of action are related. And this is an advantage in achieving the goal we share: to reduce unemployment below 10% by 2020. And it is an objective – I insist – of the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u84	Thank you. The majority will claim no change. The majority of the legislature plainly declared that this division of laws has neither foot nor head; that the production of employment on the one hand, and the cultivation of the quality of that employment, has no meaning. It is clear that this division will render management and co-ordination more difficult, and you will not tell us how these coordinations and managements will be made. In fact, with transverses, but how these management and coordination are done, and just how these related matters are performed in both departments, it has not been explained to us in the occurrences of the departments. We believe that this intention of creating employment cannot be answered with the proper efficiency of this class. Thus the legislature declared, and the unions and various operators have expressed the same statement. You say that this division is logical, and that it has all the consistency, but with few arguments and explanations. And the argument you use to justify the division, is, that this organization is your jurisdiction, the decision the president can make. And the only guarantee we can get is your job on the north side of your bruh. And that's not a guarantee, it's a plan. If it's the basic axis of everything political and everything else that's going to happen to you, you'll have to encourage everything that's going on at work with harmony. And in spite of this decision taken by the majority of the legislature, we believe that you are contemptuously speaking of little respect for the decisions which you have made here. And I think it can happen again, that groups supporting the government may lose other enterprises, and I wonder if this also is your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortasha, this congressman, with all due respect. But in the previous law, too, it was the end of my work, and the coordination I had, and so we did. Besides, I think we're going very well now: for the last four years we have managed to reduce unemployment to four points. And if we focus on it, we all, we'll get the most important social goal, we'll get unemployment down to 10%. Look, Mrs Kortajarena, there are examples in previous legislatures of similar situations, in which related areas and functions have been assigned to different departments, and experience tells us that this situation does not involve dysfunctions. And the responsibility for coordination is mine. The important thing is the spirit of collaboration, the assumption of priorities and the functioning of the Government as a collegiate body. And I guarantee you that this is guaranteed, especially in the case of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is that the members of Leire Pinedo Bustate EH gathered to the president about the relations of the New Year and State budgets." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u88	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Before February is over, I'm sure it's the first bill of the bill in the bill of law. But this budget has been discussed for a long time, not for its content, but partly because the chief physician himself has said that it will be tight and without great satisfaction, and that until 2020 all the budgets will be like that, and, on the other hand, as it is in a minority, due to the agreement that these budgets will be needed to carry on. And in connection with the budgets that PP has to go forward to Madrid, to get the two budgets together with PP to get the PP to go forward, he's got a ball-bolo. That is to say, the party of reductions, which denies the passion for independence of this people, in order to acquire the budget of EAJ and PSE's companions. That's why, Mr. President, we want to know if we're going to be in charge of the New York State budget talks and prospectal agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u90	Mrs Pinedo, I see from your question that you are still speculating about the alleged relationship or connection between support for the general budgets of the State and the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. Eta "ustezko" hitza azpimarratu nahi dut; izane ere, hori ez da rialità inondik inora ere. As far as I know, Mr Rajoy's government has not committed itself to any date to send the budget to the Congress of Deputies. Except for the statements by Mr De Guindos, in which he assumed that the Government would send a project, neither Mr Rajoy nor Mr Montoro said anything about it. We do not know, therefore, whether they will present the project at the end or try to seek support from some or other parliamentary groups for its approval, or whether they will not and will opt for an extension. That will be your decision. It's not for me to take one or the other attitude, because I don't want it and I don't want it to be speculated about what they're going to do or what they won't do. In our case, in the case of the Basque Government, we intend to bring the draft budgets to this Parliament this month, with the firm will that they be approved in this House by a large majority. They are therefore different projects, with different timetables, which will be adopted in different parliaments, by different parliamentary groups, and at different times. They are, therefore, different and distinct processes, and are, I think, of no relation to each other at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u92	Your Honor, this is what we really expect, but precedents are not positive at all. Y me eplico. The application of the CPI to the increase in GIR, disregarding what is indicated in the law itself, has only been applauded by the People's Party. And it was also Mr Alonso who praised the signs of realism that he sees in this government in relation to the budgets. And what about the deficit limit, which, although they insist, as they have done today, in which it is the result of an agreement, is nothing more than the direct translation of what Mr Montoro had already imposed on the rest of the autonomous communities. Because, Mr. Counsellor, an agreement with the People's Party, an exchange of support with the leading party in cuts, would make the social budgets needed by Basque citizens extremely difficult. Because you know, you are aware: Basque citizenship would not understand that the budgets of the Basque Government were subject, because of an exchange of chromosomes between the PNV and the People's Party, to the approval of the budgets of the State. Budgets that, let us not forget, have an enormous influence on the fundamental issues of the day-to-day life of our citizens. The list is very long, but I am going to give a few small examples: an offensive against public services, in that right-wing strategy of bringing the public sector to its minimum; the imposition of a pharmaceutical co-op; the imposition of a job reform that produces precariousness and poor workers; and a pension reform that increasingly cuts down on the chances of our elderly living a dignified life. In short, the imposition of a framework that stifles us, of policies of austerity to extremes that represent not only a brake and an obstacle, but an anti-democratic attack, because they tie hands and feet to the ability to make politics and to develop public policies that so much citizens demand. So, Mr. Subaustude, it is clear that a possible exchange between EAJ and PP will do no favor to a Basque society, but only poverty and dependence. And people are pretty clear about that. This town needs real advanced budgets that respond to the needs of society, budgets based on independence. Our present and future to build for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u94	Pinedo andrea, however, I thank you for your intervention, although I must tell you that I only understand your insistence from an escapist political position. It now gives the impression that they are trying to seek an apology from others to disagree with a compromise or decision that you, or rather your parliamentary group, have to adopt in this House with the budgets. Don't use this issue to escape your political responsibility, according to the predictives that will be put into this legislature on the 23rd of the month. Our intention, as you well know, is to explain the budgets to each and every one of the parliamentary groups to the maximum in order to seek their support. This compromise that was adopted in the Committee on Finance a few weeks ago, I would like to reiterate it here again today: we want to discuss with all of you, discuss, negotiate and agree on the amendments, if any, which could be submitted to the draft. Furthermore, my intention was, and still is, precisely to initiate these talks with your parliamentary group, since it is the one with the largest number of opposition seats. We will also, of course, talk with Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party, without forgetting the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which support the work of the Government. We will seek the support of all, because we believe it is good for the economy and good for the citizens of Euskadi. You will see, Mrs Pinedo, when we bring the numbers and you can see what these budgets are going to do. Mrs Pinedo, it does seem important to me in this matter, above all, that we do not lose the north, that we do not confuse things. Be assured that this Basque Government will present to this Parliament realistic budgets, which will serve the interests of Euskadi and only the interests of Euskadi. Don't want to be excluded from EH Bildu, I think it would be a missed opportunity for everyone; not at least the first ones of change. Of course, we will not exclude them from the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Environmental, the Planting Land and the Housing Agency, about burying the railroad in Gastine Town." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u96	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Mrs Tapia, last week you transferred to the media that you have reached an agreement with the Government of Spain regarding high-speed train access to the three Basque capitals. And in relation to Vitoria-Gasteiz it has spread that access will be buried, but that the different technical alternatives are still being studied. In this regard, let me point out that in Vitoria-Gasteiz there is already an agreement since 2010 for the underground of the railway, signed by our Government, which included the carrying out of a study of alternatives by the company Prointec, the signing of a collaboration agreement between four institutions, and the constitution of a public society called High Speed Vitoria-Gasteizko Abiadura Handia. In this regard, first of all, we would like to know whether the conclusions of that study of alternatives will be taken into account in the future and whether the abovementioned partnership agreement will remain in force. But, moreover, after his announcement, Mayor Urtaran has defended before the media an alternative similar to the one proposed at the time by Eusko Trenbide Sarea, which would go so far as to bury a part of the current route, with a cost of 485 million – or so we have read in the media – even higher than that of the route chosen in 2010. And we would like to know, from Elkarrekin We would like to know if it will include that route the essential line for the transit of goods, also what has been the content of the negotiations held with the central government, and what is the estimated cost of the alternatives being negotiated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u97	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief of the department, and fellow-in-law, good day to all. Mr. Becerra, it shows exactly that we're going to end the play of Y, and as far as Gastici is concerned, the railway will be buried to win the site for the city. So, to be able to do it, from the very first, I had the Minister of December 22, we put it on the table to see if that was possible, and the Minister saw it clearly. So the burial from Dato Street is possible in that area over there. And in our meeting with the mayor, December 26th, that was considered. This is the priority that comes from it, and, as you say, there is another alternative way for merchandise. And, indeed, we had a meeting at Madrid on the 26th of January, which was a technical meeting, and we mention alternatives. What do we mean when we talk about alternatives? There is at no time in doubt the underground in the street Dato to gain spaces for the citizenry, undergrounding the high speed train and also taking advantage to underground the current tracks, but how we get from where the stretch is finished at this time (Arrazua/Ubarrundia-Legutiano) until that moment of the underground is what must be valued, from the technical point of view and from the environmental point of view. Depending on which alternative is the most suitable, we will know what budget we need to carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u100	Obviously, what you have told me is something we already knew: that you have to connect with what is already done, that you are going to go underground, and that you have to study the alternatives. What I have told you is that there is already an alternative study done in 2010, there is already a signed funding agreement, and what I have asked you is whether or not the agreement is going to be maintained. In addition, you have told me that there is an alternative route for goods, and what I have asked you is: is the underground going to include goods within the same structure, within the same infrastructure, or are we going to double the infrastructures? Because on the subject of the high-speed train we have to say from Elkarrekin We can say that the costs that are talked about are too much. They are disproportionate in the sense that we understand that they are being or are going to be devoting economic resources from which the administrations involved do not have them and that, if they do, it will therefore be by detracting them from other items that may have greater impact and greater social interest on the citizenry than the one that today gives rise to the Basque Y. What concerns us, therefore, is, on the one hand, the layout, indeed, but on the other hand, the costs associated with the layout, and whether the commitments already made by the Government at the time will be maintained or will not be maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u102	Mr. Becerra, there were many deals in 2010, and it's been raining a lot since then and a lot of things have changed. So at the end of the year 2016, we'll have an agreement with the City Hall to defend it, of course the alternative to the City of Yonkers and the funniest of all. That must be it. And the society, which is hitherto formed, this public society, will be used. But there's so much to talk about in that. A small part of the merchandise will be different, as you know, because, after all, the goods and people do not go together at the same rate, and the Gaste, moreover, will share in one part the rations, high speeds, and merchandise, which is impossible. So in part, in a small part, it'll be different. But I was already afraid of it: they don't care so much about the alternative of what is going to happen in Gasteiz. This whole question was to talk about costs. The costs of the high-speed network, of course, some are economic, but we also have to look at the costs and benefits, by the way, social. And you have to keep them all in mind. And when we talk about what it's going to cost any of the administrations we're going to take into account too – and we're not going to cheat on the lonely – that this is an infrastructure of general interest, that the state subscribes and that we in the Gipuzcoan section are advancing and that we discount it from the Cup. So let's get things to their proper place. When we talk about how much we are going to spend to start up this infrastructure, Mr Becerra, do you not think it is time that Euskadi really is connected without any difficulty to Europe?, that it is time that we connect directly with Navarra, that we do not have a connection in condition? Isn't it time we had a quick, effective and efficient connection from the Cantabrian to the Mediterranean? Is it not time that this is also considered a reason for the economic development of this country and, therefore, for the generation of wealth? Let's take it all into account when we talk about costs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect Group to the chairman of Education, concerning the solution of education to the closing of the Milanites." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u104	It is clear that I am not Rebeka Ubera, and then I will explain why I have been asked this question to-day. The project of La Milanrosa school, which has been exposed and threatened for many years, seems to have reached a critical point for the past few months, in which it is exposed to a critical point in which it is the survival of the project of the school. Only at this moment, when the project was about to disappear, the Board of Education has put a proposition on the table. But we think this proposal doesn't solve problems and cause new problems. That's why we want to ask the chief physician whether they really believe it-that is to say, if college is divided and the students are led to other public schools, whether it really solves the problem, or, as we believe, is only escape.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u105	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u106	The President of the legislature, the president, the chief of the department, the members of the legislature, good day. Mr. Casanova, I must tell you first that since the Board of Education heard of this subject, we've worked hard to find the best educational solution. We've had relationships and meetings, and we're getting involved with all the operating agencies involved. At the present point, it is proper to remind us that on the 16th of January, 2017, the headlines of the university, the headlines of the college, that is to say, the headlines of a closed school and a private headline, they have formally made request to quit their activities in the inheritance of the Biscair country, and, as we have been informed in words, the following purpose: "In other schools, to facilitate the security of the license plate, and to make a show of platitude, that everything may go very quickly as far as legal periods, and avoid the protection of children and their families." It's our duty and our main concern as the Board of Education to protect every moment the right to education of our children, the time of licence and form. So the necessary adjustments will be programmed to get an appropriate education response, and that's what we're engaged to, and we're keeping that engagement as a joke's bet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u108	You are already acknowledging that you have intervened late, but you have also intervened badly. First of all, their proposal leaves aside the situation of the thirty-nine teachers to whom no solution is given and who are caught up in the loss of their jobs. There are really two options here. On the one hand, to maintain the educational project of La Milagrosa as it is conceived today, which is what the educational community that supports this center defends, and who thinks that there are only guarantees for the maintenance of the project in the current conditions in the current building. But that is obviously something that escapes its possibilities, because there are, in fact, private interests through it. But there is a second option, and it is that, if that is impossible, because it does not reach a concertation of these private interests, to guarantee the continuity of the project through its full integration into the public network, to publish the school of La Milagrosa. You can make the school public, instead of making it public, which is what you are proposing. Because where there was a problem they will generate three problems; where there is the problem of continuity of the center of La Milagrosa, they will generate a problem in the center of Rontegi and in the center of Minas as well. And I told them that I was going to explain to them why I was here today instead of my partner, and it is that, besides being from Barakaldo, where this problem is being given, I am also the father of a student from the center of Rontegi, who is one to whom a part of the academic population, of the students, of the students of the school of La Milagrosa is wanted to be diverted. It is a school, that of Rontegi, which is not in a position to assume the increase in enrolment that would entail the arrival of hundreds of new students. It is an exemplary school in many respects, in which many people are struggling to carry out a public school project, but that, although it is endowed with many things that has generated its educational community, it is not exactly left with site and infrastructure. We are not trying here to make an opposition between two projects (and, in fact, it is late that we will be together in the same mobilization), we are not opposing one project against another, but we are defending the possibility and the need for all these projects to move forward. Because there is only one option, or, as I said before, there are only two options: either the project of La Milagrosa is maintained in the current conditions, or a response is given to the needs that exist from the public school, publishing the school. Therefore, that is what we are asking you to do, to solve the problem and not to create new problems. Instead of one, don't multiply it by three. Don't improvise, give a real solution. Make public, if there is no other option, the project of La Milagrosa, so that you can keep your educational project on track. Make it public and don't tear it apart, because here there are many people that we believe in the public, that we believe in the public school, and what can't be permanently is a focus of problems in which we have to overcome difficulties that are often even given to us by the management of the department itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u109	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u110	Mr Casanova, we intervened at the moment when we were informed, at all times. The solution proposed by the medical department has been raised from the consent, and, as soon as it is possible, it will be considered that, in addition to the tranquillity of the family, a school post in their township will be made in order to give an answer to the family request as far as possible. The solution proposed by the Department of Education is built from the consensus, and, in addition to reassuring families by securing from the very first moment a school post in their municipality, it will also consider their express request for the maintenance of the family grouping and the grouping of students of the same educational level. We are quite instinctively connected with the families, and, as I have said, we are in complete co-ordination and alliance with the directors of the schools and with the congregations of the fathers and the representative of the Biscare Education. For next year, and for all students, we can secure a square of quality. Baradiludin Square offer is enough for all the kids. But even more, our offer answers to our family request. It'll depend on the degree of education your mathematical offer. We've proposed a combined license for students of the same rank. And I repeat, always coordinated with families and directors. I do not share your assertions. Our priority is the student, and it is in that sense that, as responsible, from the department we have taken and are taking the necessary exceptional measures with all the parties involved. We have left the door open to a possible reversibility of the registration process, because, although we only have record of the closing request, we are aware that there are negotiations by some entity to take over the project. We've left the door open for the opportunity to translate the cascade, and we've prepared a special plan of the plates to facilitate the distribution of students of the same rank, to respond to the specific demand for damaged families. This is our priority. The Board of Education works hard for an inclusive school. Our object is to receive all these students, as has been said, of quality: Inclusive, effective, evangelizing, progressing to excellence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Populcan Groups of Tourism, commerce, and Contsumon, about the activity of Euskók Fitur International Turism fair." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, the International Fatur Tourism Fair 2017 was held in January during the dates of 18-22, and Euskadi participated in that fair. The question is, Mr. Counsellor, what assessment do you make of the agenda of the government's activities for that fair?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u114	Madam President... Mrs López de Ocariz, as you well say, Fatur has consolidated itself as one of the most important forums of tourism in the international arena, and in this 37th edition has beaten records of participation: 165 countries, 755 exhibitors and more than 245,000 visitors. Fatur is, therefore, a forum in which to be. Euskadi had a stand of 700 square meters, with eight counters: one presenting the general offer of Euskadi; then three of the capitals; Rioja Alavesa; mountains and valleys; Basque coast, and one dedicated to a banner of the Basque Country brand as is gastronomy. The Euskadi stand was also a showcase of activities, in which we also presented the tourist offer in another format. The campaign "12 months 12 reasons to be seduced by Donostia", the guide of the Gulf of Bizkaia, the txotx season, the offer of family tourism of Álava... , among others, in addition to other initiatives such as the Wine Museums Network or the Miniature Congress. In addition to this, it was also the stand of Euskadi a space for meetings and contacts between professionals. 118 companies participated, with a total of 400 (160 appointments in the work area had been arranged prior to the start of the Fatur, and 240 were added later). Finally, we are also conducting a satisfaction survey among all those attending those working meetings and the staff who attended the counters. Until yesterday I had answered 40%, and with that data I am going to talk to you, although I have already been told this morning that it exceeds 50% of the answers. With that 40%, I said, the ratings are very positive: on a scale of 1 to 5, on all the sites we have contemplated, the average scores exceed 3.5 points, and the highest rating refers to the intention to repeat attendance at the Feria Fatur next year, with a score of 4.5 (on that scale of 1 to 5). Therefore, the assessment we make of Fatur is, on the basis of these data and the survey itself, very positive. It is also so from the promotional point of view, because of the media impact achieved: 80 news published in the press, 39 in digital media, and 168 in radio and television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u116	Thank you, Counselor. Parallel to Fitur are the forums of knowledge, as you know. One of them is Faturtech, a forum for professional audiences that hosts a specific section for the incorporation of technology into the tourism value chain, something very important in the 21st century for tourism. Consolidated forum, with ten years of trajectory, and that this year concentrated technology and environmental sustainability under the same umbrella. Counselor, your cabinet has asked the organization of Faturtech to insist on a gap for you to participate in this forum. Given the interest expressed by the Government, and making a fitting of bubbles, the organizers managed to fit into the agenda of Thursday 19th, at 1:30 p.m. – the agenda said – "Forum of Technology and Sustainability; Euskadi's presentation as a sustainable and experiential destination". Alfredo Retortillo, Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, Basque Government. Pavilion 10, Ifema." The audience came, but the councillor did not come, nor did anyone in his place. Someone announced to the attending audience that the counselor could not come for receiving an award, which had already been given two hours ago. Counselor, a stubble; in the midst of much success, but a stubble. Bad with the organizers, bad with the professional audience who came to hear the presentation. A bad experience for the professional audience and for the organizers. Counselor, you said, "In Fatur you must be." I fully agree that Fatur must be. He said, "If they don't see you, you're not; if you're not, you're out." And I say to him, if you commit yourself to being and announce that you are going to be and you are not going to be, and you justify it badly, then you convey a bad image and generate a bad experience. And that's not our goal, is it, counselor? Well, since it's not our goal, we hope this won't happen again. Because, Mr. Counsellor, if the purpose of the fair is to attract visitors to Euskadi, the professional audience who came to hear this presentation received a bad experience. You know that "You've done 100, you haven't done 101, you haven't done any." In the end a few professionals left with the taste of mouth that the advisor of the Basque Country has left us planted. I, Mr. Counsellor, encourage you to avoid situations like this, which do not convey the real image, neither of you nor of the Basques. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u118	Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, that conference was indeed organized by our insistence. As you know, these kinds of conferences are sponsored, and we offered that sponsorship. That was why Faturtech, or Fatur's organization, included the conference. On the other hand there was a commitment, and the commitment was that, in addition to my person in one of the presentations, there would be the Argentine Minister of Tourism and the representative of Tourism of an important population of Mexico such as La Puebla. The representative of La Puebla finally disappeared from the agenda, was not for that conference, and the representative of Argentina changed from the Argentine Minister of Tourism to the director of a tourist office in Buenos Aires. That was why we declined to attend and finally did not sponsor that conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u119	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos, a member of the Basque Groups of the Pogula, made for Cultura and the Chief of Language, in a program of EITB about cutting off the picture of King Philip VI." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, in view of the law of creation of the entity and the chain style book, the act that starred last December 15th the usual Tertullian of the program "What are you telling me!" Iñigo Landa does not conform to the principles of the law or to the pattern of treatment of the information that the style book collects. This Tertullian broke a live printed photograph, which he carried with him, of the current Head of State, King Philip VI, which suggests that it was a well thought out and well prepared performance. Therefore, neither the relief nor the attenuator of heat or momentary rapture should be applied. In Landa's act what he did was to reproduce and emulate the performance of five members of the CUP, in protest at the arrest by the Mossos d ́Esquadra of five young people who had burned pictures of the monarch during the Day of the Day on September 11. We are therefore talking about action that can have legal consequences for those who do so. But that is not the question today. Nor has Mr. Landa's performance, hired by the PNV at Bilbao City Hall and recently been dismissed as responsible for the official Twitter account of the Bilbao Municipal Police for its wrongdoing, which led to the complaint of the local police officers themselves. But today we are not talking here, as I say to you, in Parliament, about this alleged illegality or Mr Landa's dubious professionalism, but about responsibility. The responsibility of the EITB public chain and its responsibility, Mr. Counsellor, so that the legal principles and the good doing of the chain, recognized in the law of creation of the entity and in the style book, are complied with. That's why I ask you: Do you think that actions like this respect political pluralism, the promotion of civic values of coexistence, and respect the honor and fame of people? Under what criteria will it act in the future to prevent such an attack on a state institution from being repeated in EITB?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u121	Thank you, Miss Llanos. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u122	Chief of the Basque Parliament, members of the legislature. Ms. Llanos, as a member of the Basque Congress, you're also a member of the Basque Radio Administration Council. You asked me this question, too, and I think I can tell you the words that gave you the answer that was given you here. As the headmaster of EIB said to you, "NaQé me estás constando! "there was nothing to be foreseen in the programme. He told you, too, that there was no intention of talking about the King on the programme of the program, to talk about the head of the State; the subject was another. He told you, too, that the behavior of our friend Landa is a way out of which no script was previously recorded. He told you, too, that in the event of the incident, the program manager had given a discussion about what had happened to the others there. And he also told you that Mr. Landa's responsibility for what happened there. I think you'll know that 13 days later Mr. Landa left another program of ETV, and I think he said more or less if he'd hurt or attacked someone's feelings with his behavior, he apologized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u123	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u124	Mr. Counsellor, it is true that I asked there, but the truth is that Mr. Landa's performance did not deserve the fault of the presenter or the fault of the chain, nor was it called into question by the director of EITB, nor does it seem that you have taken steps to correct this situation. Far from all this, as you said, Mr Landa has returned to the EITB programs, despite some facts that we – we said in the EITB board – consider serious, in what it may seem to be free bar to do acts like these in any other program. Breaking the photograph of the king, of an institution of the state, is a glaring breach of what is expected of a public chain, paid with the money of all Basques, which is part of a Spanish public network, such as Forta, and which must be an active principle of political pedagogy. Mr Landa's actions contradict from beginning to end the legal and style principles of the chain. Freedom of expression, as stated in that council, cannot be an excuse to violate laws or to admit attacks against symbols of the rule of law, against first-class institutional figures. Can you imagine me taking a picture of Mr Urkullu here today and breaking it, or breaking a picture of the President of this Parliament, Bakartxo Tejeria, or breaking a picture of our flag on ETB? That would be inadmissible. It would be unacceptable if that could be done in a public channel, or in a public institution such as this Parliament, that could be done. Well, all right, ETB may not be guilty of what they do on a TV set, on a live show, their guests or collaborators, but it is responsible, as you are, Mr. Counsellor, for the chain to ensure compliance with the law, for compliance with the style book, and, more importantly, for being an active agent in the defence of democratic values and principles. Let's hope he does, because so far he doesn't seem to be doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u125	Thank you, Miss Llanos. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u126	Chief of Parliament, Mrs. Llanos. You want me to show up here and tell him that EITB will not call Mr. Landa back to an opinion program, either on television or on the radio. Well, I'm not going to, because this government doesn't put or remove Tertullians, fortunately. At least not the Basque Government. I don't know if others will. If you think that in EITB there must be some veto over someone, some behavior, and you are able to specify it, I invite you, as a member of the EITB Board of Directors, to bring a proposal to that body and put it to the vote of its members, which I think would be a good place (you are an EITB supervisory body) to make a decision similar to that. I have tremendous respect for the professionals who run these kinds of programs, because I know how hard it is for them to take them forward, and an important part of these programs are the people who, because of their goodwill and their personal or professional commitment, come to them to give their opinion and make those programs possible. I myself have been participating in more than one radio or television program and giving my opinion in newspapers about today, and I have done so since my personal and professional commitment. I'm going to confess that I've never felt the need to break anyone's photograph, I've never felt the need to do that feat, but, well, everyone assumes responsibility for their actions. I have always done so, and I hope that Mr Landa, if it were the place or if it were the case, will also assume that responsibility. When I've been in opinion programmes I've never been asked what I was going to do, I've never been asked what I was going to say, and I've never, ever been censored by an opinion, or I've been drawn to what I've been able to say. You have not done so today; in statements before today's statements you have spoken of criminal acts, referring to Mr Landa's act. I think you should be more careful and not make statements that may limit freedom of expression. And I think you should be very careful, Mrs Llanos, because some of your Government's behaviour, such as the successive changes to the Criminal Code or even the law of gags, are very serious limits to freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-03.u127	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Since the list of subjects has run out, I'll put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and nine.
