ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Ask the question, Amaia Argrea Romane Eubertarians of the staff of Parliament for Eplegu and the head physician of the Society, about the service of Service." Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. Telehelp is a social support and intervention technical service that places itself in the context of the first-seeing social services. A phone and informal response enables people to continually serve people for 24 hours and 365 days a year, especially people who are particularly interested in situations of emergency or social need when they are needed to move them both on their own and on other common resources. Home teleassistance is a service that allows users to stay in their usual living environment, avoiding their uprooting. Our elders and elders express their will and preference to stay in their homes, in their usual place of residence, and the powerful existing teleassistance service allows them to stay in their homes in safe conditions as long as possible. It is a service highly valued by both the users and their family members and the professionals who care for it. Teleassistance is an important element of tranquillity and safety for users and their families; it combines the will of older people to stay in their homes in good conditions and as long as possible, with the tranquillity of their families and society in general, who know that in the event of an unforeseen event they will be immediately attended to by highly qualified professionals, with the certainty that the necessary resources will be put in place to care for them. In case of security or health risks, a simple device installed on a wrist or a mediloid keeps them in contact with an immediate center of attention, in order to be careful of professional specialised professionals in socionation. By means of such instruments, which are very easy to use, our masters may be able to stay as long as possible in their houses, which they have insisted on. If anything happens, they at once take the necessary care of different professionals. Therefore, we want to highlight the current teleassistance service, and, as we have known it will expand in both number of users and in services offered, Artolazabal Sailburua, gustuko litzaiguke azaltzea zelan gauzatuko den hedatze hori, eta zein neurri zehatz martxan jarriko diren. Just because you'll be grateful for the explanations you're going to give in advance, and you'll improve the service of existence that's so fortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. I'm sure the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Arregi andrea, as you indicated, home teleassistance is a public service for elderly or disabled people. Its objective is to promote the autonomy and independence of these people by the immediate attention of specialized professionals who can provide them with advice to regain control of their situation, or to activate the appropriate mechanisms to get the necessary help to them quickly. Collaboration with the Department of Health has been instrumental in the successful development of this growing socio-health initiative. Not only does the growth of users occur, it is also constantly expanding in terms of services offered. Technological advances are making it possible to improve the accompaniment that is made on the other side of the button, the medallion or the line. This service, very positively valued by the users, bets on continuous improvement, and so we have marked ourselves challenges for these coming years. The elderly group is undoubtedly the main objective of service delivery; in addition, the expansion of coverage to persons with disabilities and mental illness will improve the initiative. The development of a personalized care model for preventive action in solitude, falls, safety and support to the socio-family environment is another of our lines of work. And, as mentioned above, the continuity of social and health cooperation is necessary from a person-centred model and through the effective coordination of social and health services, always prioritizing coordination with social services of primary care. But the biggest challenge ahead is to anticipate each person's needs and seek the best response by being efficient. And we're going to do it using the new technologies. The enlargement to which they referred, Mrs Arregi, arises from a look to the future. The system will be digitized, rather analog, which will allow new tools to be provided to BetiOn professionals to meet the needs of those who are at home. The digitization applied to remote assistance allows solutions always connected, faster, more adaptable and able to handle a lot of information, in addition to incorporating simultaneous management of voice, video and data. The current analog infrastructure of households will be progressively replaced, as has happened in other countries such as Sweden or Australia. It does not depend solely on our will, the digitization of the domestic networks is not mandatory, but more and more households are betting for it, and therefore BetiOn must be prepared for that moment. In the second half of 2017, the public teleassistance service of Euskadi will carry out a first deployment, in 100 homes, of digital technology, through the latest generation mobile networks. And to the extent of our possibilities that experience will grow, because digitization opens the door to the provision of more effective services. The group of teleassistance professionals has also moved to a new headquarters, where it has tools that will help to advance the socio-health approach. The teleassistance service is essential for more than 43,000 people to live independently and independently in their homes. Not only does it cover users, it is also a fundamental support for families and caregivers. The service has an immediate effect on the lives of these 43,000 people, and on the user satisfaction index, of the top 5 points of the note, BetiOn reaches 4.41 points. The teleassistance service is a real example in the care of the elderly, marked in the future European pillar that Brussels will present on 26 April, and in which Euskadi offers many signs of initiative and commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Okiñena of Maddalen, the parliamentary members of the Book of the Union to the President, as the spokes of the parliamentary Society of Euncierous Society "about the expressions made by the Requirement of the Common-wealth of Eascal." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u5	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Mr. President, good morning. I'd like you to know that I'd have to take the same answer again, and you'd have to tell me that we have to look into this at the Autogoton Committee. But at the same time, I think that the Government is not at this Commission of Autogobern, and that though it be the means to give an opinion on it, this is one of the most convenient places for the Government to know the opinion, the intentions, and the plans of the Government. Besides, it seems to me that in the new state-wide road we might take a very important step today, arriving at the agreements at this moment. That's why I won't ask you about your government plans. I'd like to know your opinion by what the spokesman of this member of your party said in a communication. He said Spanish: "Yo, para tener una éción finderal en pie de gueld, tengo que Estodo." And carried that to a core: "Tenemos que ser Stado para que la Seekalida con Spaiña sea en guild." We agree with that, and we're ready to do that. But we would like to know whether you are president of Arba, Gipu, and of the People of Buzika, the opinion of this Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Yes, Mrs. Irriere, it may happen, and it will happen to you. But at the same time, I will tell you that we agree, and it is not necessary to examine the expressions of one or the other. You don't have to go far. Here you have the proposition of the Euctaly Party, and so is mine also written on the 12th of January 2016. We've arranged the eleven basics that we've agreed to update the automatically. On the basis of democratic principle, the State will have to assume that it is necessary to open the necessary negotiation, and to acknowledge the proposalability of our member. "Euscal society is composed of various personalitys, and they must all live together." - "To acknowledge the national personality of the Basque People." "Euscal Country is a juridic and political subject, who has right and ability to determine his future, to inquire, and to be respected in a democratic manner." "We must restore our jurisdiction to the new European events." - "One-way relationship system." Confess your rights to Navarro and the North. - "Separate the delegation order of the brethren among the nations." - "to give the people a proper law armor and encourage the language policy." - "Make sure to update the Economical system." "The law of Europe will have to confirm the project, and subject it to a question of the subject of the citizens of euscal, before they proceed to the Courts of Courts." So, Mrs. Irriart, this is the one that was introduced by the Jest Party. I'm a member of the Jestzaan Party. A week after week, if you ask the same question, I'll give you the same answer: We've got a team of auto-engernus with a certain factory that's also accepted this week. Let's keep this discussion on that crew. Mrs Iriarte, the Self-Government Paper is under way with a work schedule approved this week, and I propose to respect this specific forum of the self-government paper and move forward in a constructive spirit to achieve a deep, broad and plural internal agreement. This is our mission and responsibility at this time: dialogue, agreement and compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u9	What concerns us is, indeed, that this mutual relation will be equally superfluous, and that is why I ask you, and I think it's important that this should be so. And we've got a bit of responsibility for the fact that the Jestric Party has made a deal with the Socialist Party, and now, to get ahead of the budget, it's done with the Party Party Party Party Party, With the popular Party of LOMCE, the popular Party of the reductions, with the one who denies torture, I know the statement that you have heard of this week of Barren's Barren's at Sandra, which negates the character of this town. And in an important moment we see our country, and in this new state of affairs we are concerned with the dangers of not being exposed to the same. And it seems to us at this moment that the appearance of the EUGHIST Party may endanger this path under the umbrella of collegeism. We hope it won't be so, and this time we'll find each other working on that road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, when we get the deal and we get the deals together with EH Collect, or when we get them from creation, what do we get the deals with? And when we get the settlements, it's the purpose of the Jestric Party of the Eural Party to have the settlements for the good of this country, both with them and with others, even when the agreements are made with the EH Collectors, Mrs. Irrez. And we have an opportunity that we have never had to form a vast and numerous agreement between different political parties, from this legislature to introduce a proposition to the society of Euscal. We need to be responsible for all of us. My desire and aim is to obtain a model agreement from this institution, and propose it to society, which is the responsibility and responsibility of all, to receive and associate with one another, which is a solid foundation for the building of the country during the day. And in the meantime, the Basques that we do not have a national state have political, economic and institutional tools to continue to make country every day. Let's get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, the Tinisha Guanche Suáz, together with the congressmen of Podemos to the president, about the US DSBEA LGS." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u13	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, the chairman, the congressman, the chief physician. The preliminary draft budget, which the People's Party has enjoyed so much, in its sixth and seventh provisions introduces two cuts in the amount of income security income. In particular, the seventh is based on a provision of the Rajoy Government that breaks the link that the law recognizes in the right to income guarantee with the interprofessional minimum wage. Could you explain why, those who claim to stand on the wall against the interferences of the central government, are using precisely a recommendation from that same government to disengage the GIR from the minimum wage, reciting it and insecure the lives of more than 63,000 families?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Guanche, I am guided by the agreements that have been adopted in this Parliament before the agreements that have been adopted in other forums. In this respect, the decision taken by the Basque Government has been to increase the revenue guarantee income budget precisely as envisaged in the draft budgets. And, with regard to the agreement of 15 December of this Parliament, this Parliament has urged the Government to promote a broad-based social pact to consolidate funding and ensure the sustainability of the Basque social protection system, and this pact will need to include amendments to optimise income security income. The Department of Employment and Social Policy will present the report before 15 May, as requested by this Parliament itself. The Government will fulfil this commitment. And, in the meantime, the budgets, I insist, already include an increase in the allocations for social protection in general, and an increase in the GIR in particular. This is increased to maintain the purchasing power of perceptors. You said that yesterday in the debate yesterday: the social commitment of this country for thirty years is undeniable. We dedicate more than 500 million dollars each year to caring for people with no income. This accounts for 40% of what is invested throughout the State. The risk of poverty, for example, according to the Eustat data published these days, in Euskadi is similar to that in Germany. I do not think it is fair, therefore, to question, as is done, the solidarity of Basque society. And I say of Basque society as a whole; not only of the institutions, but also of society in general. But also with the co-participation and colliding, if not the leadership, of the institutions. This country is in solidarity with those who need it most, and so does its party, which aims to establish in Spain a programme that is, curiously, less ambitious than the one we have here. The approach you make, Mrs Guanche, I think it lacks realism, which is not sustainable. In the meantime, the Government will continue to argue that employment is the best social policy. It is about stimulating real labour inclusion, avoiding situations of chronification – and this is what we also say in the government agreement – and promoting labour market integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u17	First of all, thank you for the answer. We assumed you'd go that way, Mr. Urkullu. We do not question the system or its sustainability. That was already done in his day by his PSE partners, and today by his new members of the People's Party. Those of the PSE when they applied a 7 % cut, those of the PP when every day they link the GIR with terrorism and crime. We, of course, believe in the system and believe that we can contribute to its improvement, and that its choice over RGI, as well as the choice it makes of fellow travellers, only demonstrates its political will to cut back on those less able to defend themselves. In any case, we believe that the sustainability of the system should not be done at the expense of people who are experiencing the worst. Not at all? I don't know, maybe you'll think of something else. Recently, for example, the press counted the case of Begoña, one of the more than 60,000 anonymous people who need this social benefit, and she literally said: "Sixty euros of community, fifty light, two hundred and peak mortgages: I have ninety euros left to eat." If you can find 25 million to make the People's Party happy, how will you not get it to improve the living conditions of much of the citizenry! Once again, there's what the PP wants, but not what people need. For example, they could begin to add some of that money by cutting back on advisors and senior officials; so the effort and example would begin with the Government. Because it is you who, being able not to apply this cut, have chosen to do so. No one forced them. It is a political decision and it is a matter of will. And it has also been done without waiting for the agreement adopted in this Parliament starting, as you said, on 15 May. Put yourselves in the same way, this is a cut, and if you have any doubt I place you to reread Decree 746/2016, where it clearly says: "Salvo" (I insist, "salvo") express provision contrary to the Autonomous Communities themselves." Margins would have, but they don't want to apply them. Your decision will be directly affected: more than 15,000 people with minimum pensions, more than 12,000 with precarious jobs, those you have the hard face of saying that if you raise the benefit 50 euros a month you would stop working. What disincentives the job, Mr. lehendakari, is that finding a job fifteen days ago Lanbide, between one thing and another, left you three months uncollected, and also generates undue payments. What discourages access to employment is that employment does not meet minimum standards of dignity and quality. And that should be your priority. I propose one thing, Mr Urkullu: ask your advisors whether with a 15% lower salary they would quit their jobs. I assure you that you would not, and even with those you would not imagine what the life of a person living in Euskadi is like with less than the interprofessional minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Guanche, about giving up wages, I'm not going to give you examples, which you have in your house. Look, spaces for improvement yes, not demagogy, Mrs. Guanche. Did you know that in Euskadi many of the recipients of GIR already charge more than the interprofessional minimum wage? Do you know that in Euskadi the difference between income guarantee income and minimum wage is below the average in Europe? Do you know that if you apply the 15% increase that you propose all collectors would be charged more than the minimum wage? Do you know that this situation can discourage employment and chronicle social marginalization? Do you know that with your proposal, Mrs. Guanche, a person could charge more without working than working? Yes, Mrs. Guanche, realism. Demagogy no. And don't you come with the partner mantra and the People's Party. Listen, when we agree with you, do you also consider yourselves partners in the Basque Nationalist Party, when we agree with you on parliamentary initiatives? Look, we assume that there is always room for improvement in social policies, and that is what it is about, with the commitment to present the income guarantee income report, which is the commitment in this Parliament. However, acknowledge what this society has done in 30 years, and above all contribute to the primacy of employment-generating measures, which is the best social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question was asked by Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Social Socialists to the Chief of Work and Justice, in the course of the years to come." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, advisers and advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Madam Councillor for Labour and Justice, it is well known, because you have expressed this on several occasions – the first when you presented to the relevant committee the broad lines of action of your department for this parliamentary term and again when you presented us with the budget for the 2017 financial year – that one of the priorities of your work will be the fight against labour fraud. I am aware that the economic crisis, and the harmful policies put in place by the right to deal with it, have led to inequality in many areas, including employment, and have been particularly stubborn with women. The labor reform approved in 2012 in Spain has made us encounter cuts in rights and working conditions. One of the most alarming expressions of these cuts is an exponential increase that is taking place in our country in the form of part-time contracts, which also, I would like to recall, we are the women who sign the vast majority of these contracts. Nothing more and nothing less than seven out of ten of them. We are all aware that this type of contract is subject to manipulation, that one thing is signed and that another very different thing is enforced by the worker. We are therefore faced with a real possibility of labour fraud. In line with what you have repeatedly stated, a few days ago you announced that you had instructed the Labour Inspectorate, under your control, to launch a campaign for the revision of part-time contracts that have been formalised in our Autonomous Community. The Socialist Group in this House welcomes this measure, and we encourage it to continue the work undertaken to tackle labour fraud, because we believe that, in addition to claiming more self-government, we need to know how to use it, expressing each competition, as is the case after taking over the transfer of the labour inspection. It is a measure that will certainly reverse in improving the working conditions of our workers. It is a measure that shows its determined will to put an end to irregular situations in the workplace. However, I am convinced that you will agree with me that, in this sense, there is a long way to go, that involvement and collaboration between the Administration and the social partners are needed to solve the problem; that it is essential that society as a whole become aware of and facilitate the elimination of labour fraud. You've announced an initiative. I want you to explain to us all and all its scope. He's put a time limit on the campaign: two years. I am convinced that this is not a short-term measure, but that it is immersed in a global project. That is why I ask you: in view of the part-time contract review campaign that your department plans, does your department plan to carry out other Labour Inspectorate campaigns specific to certain groups of workers who are particularly affected by labour fraud?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. San José has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Sánchez, as you have said, the fight against labour fraud is one of the priority objectives that we have set ourselves in the Basque Government and, therefore, in the Department of Labour and Justice for this parliamentary term. When a natural person or company seeks, through economic deception to the Administration, to obtain a particular benefit, what we are causing is a major injury to the general interests. When someone makes a part-time contract, but is actually modifying it to work more hours than those provided for in the contract, what is occurring is a direct injury to the person hired, but is also causing significant damage to the public coffers. Our Basque farms will not be able to collect what is right, and the General Treasury of Social Security will not be able to enter what is right for it. In short, the whole society is being broken. That is why public administrations must ensure and put the tools at our disposal to avoid such situations. The Department of Labour and Justice has decided to launch a campaign to minimize this fraud to the extent possible. The first thing I want to say is that, apart from political will, this decision is based on an analysis of the situation on our part, and on the contrast with the four most important trade union organisations in our country and the most representative business organisation. Mrs Sánchez, in the Department of Labour and Justice we are aware of the increase that in certain productive sectors, such as commerce and hospitality, you are having the form of part-time contracts, and we are also aware that in some cases it may lead to incorrect practices. In the month of January, 68,012 temporary contracts were signed in Euskadi, of which 26,314 were concluded on a part-time basis, i.e. 53,39 %. [[Sic]] - No, no, no, I would like to point out that, of these, 17,832 (66%) have been to hire women. In conclusion, we believe that there are people and sectors more vulnerable to this type of fraud. That is why we have announced and are going to launch an inspection campaign to review these types of contracts, to contrast them with the exercise of the activity, and to sanction if illegal situations are detected. But I can assure you, Mrs Sánchez, that this is only one of the activities to be carried out by the forty-four inspectors and fourteen subinspectors who depend on the department I run. On the other hand, I would like to stress that these professionals are perfectly coordinated with those not transferred dependent on the State, making the inspection work more efficient. As I said at the beginning of my speech, campaigns against labour fraud are going to be a fundamental axis of work for the whole legislature. You know our decision to implement through the web a mailbox against labour fraud for those workers in sectors with low union establishment, or where the pressure of employees is high, so that they can report irregular situations. Our commitment is to spread this mailbox and investigate all complaints. We will also emphasize the ways in which subcontracting is carried out, the extremes of labour intermediation, and we want to know the degree of compliance with the rules for the integration of people with functional diversity into the labour market. The examination of working conditions, the detection of possible pay breaches, discrimination against immigrants, the identification of possible breaches in the working conditions of companies with ERE will be other priorities of ours. To promote effective equality between men and women in the world of work, by combating discrimination or working conditions, as well as harassment on the basis of sex and work. We aspire to a Basque society with more employment, but we will demand that it be of quality, so that it serves to dignify the lives of all who access it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María del López de Ocariz López de Muninka Popula, made by Turism, commerce, and Kotsamo, for the profit of the advantages which the Esaña marks offer for the tourist sector." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, counselor, good morning. The Basques have made a renewed bid to boost our tourism sector. Being a reference in this sector is not easy, but steps have been taken from private initiative, our hospitality, the hotel sector, commerce, the permanent improvement of services. The latest statistics published by the National Institute of Statistics show that the Basque Country gains space in attracting foreign tourists; on the contrary, it occupies the penultimate position as a tourist destination chosen by tourists living in our country, national tourism, with an average overnight stay of 5.9. These data show wide areas of improvement and opportunities for the tourism sector to gain attractiveness in the Basque Country and increase GDP, which today barely represents 6%. From the Group of the European People's Party we believe that we should take advantage of the advantages also offered in the tourism sector by the brand Spain, a leading reference in the world. Is it the Government's will, Mr. Counsellor, to cooperate actively in the Spain Tourism brand?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u26	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Retortillo, ma'am, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Ms López de Ocariz, points out a deficit behavior of tourism residents in Spain regarding the destination Euskadi to ask me about the collaboration with the brand Spain. Let me first give you a clarification: the data you handle from the third-quarter resident tourism survey – because they have not yet come out of the fourth but will be coming out – actually put Euskadi in a low position (it is not exactly the penultimate, but well, a low position, indeed), but the problem with that survey is that the data are not good for measuring the tourist attraction of a destination, for example in this case the Euskadi destination. They're not good for three reasons. First, because that survey measures travel, it doesn't measure tourists. Second, because this survey includes residents within the autonomous community. And, third, because it also includes not only leisure and tourism trips, but those that refer to business or even family visits, etc. Thus, a large autonomous community in size and population ends up being raised only by the internal movement of residents within the autonomous community. In fact, most of the travel movements recorded in this survey relate to internal movements of residents within each of the Autonomous Communities. That is why it is not uncommon for a small community like Euskadi to appear at a lower level. It is much better the hotel occupancy survey, also of the National Institute of Statistics, which has already completed the 2016 data. And, if we look at those data referring to residents in Spain, the total number of passengers estimated from that survey represents 3.5% of the total, which leaves us in the tenth position. We have tourist communities like Asturias or Baleares (it is true that Baleares then takes the part of the lion of foreign tourism), and we also have Extremadura, Murcia, Cantabria, Navarre and La Rioja from behind. All this does not mean that we do not actually have room for improvement. What I did not just relate to is the Spanish brand, because it refers to the internal market, or to the external market? We actually have areas for improvement. The collaboration, for example in the external projection, with Turespana is indeed positive, it has been and can continue to be. But the department's criterion and objective, as I also expressed in parliamentary appearance, is to strengthen and promote the Euskadi brand, the Euskadi destination, the Basque Country brand, because the fundamental objective is to attract tourists to our destination, to our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u29	Counselor, you've left me worried. It doesn't seem like an opportunity for the brand Spain. Well, for the People's Party, the Spanish brand does seem important to us. We consider it important and necessary to link the brand Euskadi with the brand Spain. We must flee from stereotypes that remain, that do not contribute. The stake for the brands Euskadi and Spain tourist is not only that it is compatible, but it is necessary for the tourism sector of Euskadi to benefit from the strengths that contribute to the leadership position that our country, the brand Spain, occupies in the effectiveness of the strategy in the tourism sector. In the same way it contributes both internally – within the internal promotion – and internationally the brand Spain, which leads the world ranking of tourism competitiveness and is the second in the country brand ranking in the field of tourism, after the United States. From what we understand from the People's Group that working actively with the brand Spain can help us to make tourism in Euskadi one of the key sectors of our economic structure. It is not good that we do some things that we do, such as going to do separate international fairs Euskadi and Spain, each on their side. Why not combine and coordinate these presences? It seems to us that the collaboration with the brand Spain and the coordination with the competent administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community can allow us to give greater visibility to all our tourist destinations, our festivals, events, congresses; to enhance the different offers of tourist products; cultural tourism, meetings, nature tourism, cruises, nautical, thermal tourism, gastronomic tourism, winemaking, rural tourism, beach tourism. We enjoy the most diverse and differentiated tourist resources, and yet we do not occupy good spaces. Let's look at the polls as we look at them, we're not in the top ten, we're below. The surveys all know that they have different parameters, but in the end we do not occupy a good position. However, we have fantastic resources. Therefore, Mr Councilman, we must bet on the Euskadi-Spain partnership, because it positions us in areas that we alone cannot achieve. And we have to make the tourism sector a powerful sector of this country's economic industry, because we have resources, because our sector is making an effort, and because we have to give it the greatest opportunity. And we have to work together on that. There we will find the People's Party, working to ensure that the positioning of tourism in the Basque Country is in every corner of the world. Everyone travels, everyone wants to travel, everyone is a potential customer of this autonomous community. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u30	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs López de Ocariz, I insist, the difference between collaborating with the brand Spain and collaborating with the infrastructure of external tourist promotion that has, in fact, a power in tourism such as Spain. In fact, in Fatur, the first thing I did was a meeting with the heads of Spain's foreign tourism offices, to strengthen the promotion of the Euskadi destination abroad. The collaboration with this promotional infrastructure has already given us the organization of three press trip and two fam trip with specialized media and tour operators in different countries. And as for the presence at fairs, this year we have already, at the fairs in Utrecht and Dublin, in January, done it with Turespana, just like last year; we have done it in Brussels and Munich this month, and these days (from yesterday to Sunday) we are doing it in Paris. I mean, that collaboration already takes place...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo... Number of points in theme list: "Interlation by Juana de Bengoechea Esté Espekal Society Member of the United States to the president, about the education policy of Eusko MUGY. " Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, egun on. Look, we've asked a question, but I want to make it clear before we start that it's not a question to look for defects, to make it aggressive... Not at all. And why not? Because, let's see, we are at a time when everyone is calling for dialogue, dialogue, dialogue, but I am often led by the popular saying that dialogue, being something absolutely positive, can also be a dialogue of the deaf, and also – and forgive me, I separate it from this area – even a dialogue of the besugos. So what we don't want is for this kind of sterile dialogue to take place, which is actually the only thing you want is to disqualify the adversary, to highlight all the things that logically can't be done right, etc., etc. No, we believe in the dialogue of good will, and that is the dialogue we want to offer. In addition, I said yesterday, politics is done from today to tomorrow, to fix today and to prepare a good morning, not looking to the past, etc. And that's what we're into. We're going to face the problems today, and we're going to pull forward. And, of course, that's why we have to do it together. If we insist on education, it is not because we are looking for tickles or for an area in which this government – hopefully temporarily – has not had the best results. No, no, We do it because education, first, we all know it's vital. It's vital. I told the counselor that she was probably in the most difficult area of government, because she was dealing with people. I also told him how to be a public works or promotion counselor, or what it is called, because it is relatively easier, because we have to do things right but it is about stones. Not here, here we deal with people and deal with the future. And we are concerned about those aspects of education, and we have to focus on that, but above all because, although we all wanted education to be a meeting point, Euskadi is currently a field of confrontation. In it are confronting the two great impulses that we have as a society, and impulses that in our opinion delay us, hinder us the progress. The first push is one in which we will be able to help you little, which is the centrifugal push, which for us is a push towards isolation, towards loneliness, and in that sense towards social poverty and impoverishment of social capital, which is a concept that you named and it is a concept that for me too I believe is vital, that we are able to unite and have common purposes. But we have that impulse that we're not going to be able to help you very much, because you know our way of thinking. But then we have another pulse that is also a threat, which is the urge to change the system. This impulse, of course recognizing that the system in times of crisis has been very deficient (i.e., we have not responded well), and that, therefore, the system must be reformed, but it gives scope to what we have called – and I do not want to miss anyone, in the best sense of the term – anti-system impulses. The other day we had the opportunity to receive trade unions in the committee. I, in view of their insistence on this anti-system drive, asked them to set me an example where, with a different system, the citizens had reached a better level of well-being, and after a silence a hand was raised between the unions and said: "For Unesco has said that Cuba is the one that has made the most progress in not knowing what". I didn't have a chance to answer, but I asked: "And do we want to live like in Cuba?". I don't think so! This system, with all its defects, with all its failures, is the one that provides a better degree of freedom and well-being or opportunities. And you'll tell me... Well, what does this have to do with the question I asked you? Well, the first thing is to say that in the field of education we want to know your plans, because we want to be in that pact for the education that you propose, because we want the system that we have, although we would like to change it, and you know that we are not satisfied with this model... But we take a word from the counselor, who says, "We are facing a new paradigm." Okay, here we are going to agree: we are facing a new paradigm. And then, in this pact for education we want to be, and we want to be to defend some basic values, that that drive we have towards the anti-system threatens the Basque model. And I think that's where we can meet you. And, look, that materializes into something very simple. In all the commissions I'm in, if there's anything to show mania it's towards concerted education. And, of course, we don't understand why that mania is given to a kind of education that chooses half the citizens. It seems to us to be an aggression against freedom and a wedge against a system that allows freedom of choice and allows development. And, of course, here it seems that we have to justify ourselves, as when we talk about the Basque. "No, no, please, that I am euskaldun, that my children are euskaldunes..." You have to apologize. And I don't want to apologize, but I am going to say that our spokesperson has been educated in the Basque public school, that my granddaughter is going to go to the Basque public school. That is, that this is going to be taken as an attack on the Basque public school, but not: I am offering you a field in which we can find ourselves, which is the protection of a publicly funded education in which parents have the opportunity to choose. What I want to say to you with all this is that, rather than a question – that we are going to be very attentive, although I think I already know the answer, because, as I have read the counselor's explanations, and I understand that you go that way... –, what I mean is that at the moment education is a field I don't mean battle, but confrontation. It is one of the fields in which the impulses that hold our social capital are most alive. And we... Because, look, we could say, "Well, your government colleagues, those government colleagues, I listen to you in the commissions and, come on, it's the same..." I mean, they're against the concertation, too. The other day I had to tell Mr. Pastor – who is not here – what's good, he would be everything for the public school, that concerts would be taken away, etc., etc., and I had to say to him: "But most of his colleagues are very grateful to the defense that I make of the concertation, because most of his colleagues take their children to the concertation." Yes, it is true, I told him and it is true, and if he wants I give him the list of names, at least of Gipuzcoans. I know them very well. So what I want to say is that this question understands it in order to establish a dialogue of good will, not a dialogue of besugos, nor a dialogue of the deaf, which all they lead to is to wear the opposite, but they do not lead to the common attempt to move forward. Then, in the next intervention I can tell you specifically what we are most concerned about, but, of course, if we have to get a minimum of social capital, and if we have to get a minimum of pulling forward, and if we are threatened by a few impulses that stop us, in one of them we will not be able to help you, but of course in the other. And you have our offer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. In reply, Mrs. Uri until she's a member of the New Year's House has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u35	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. I am a little surprised, Mrs Bengoechea, because taking the question, which is raised there in December, of what is the purpose of the lehendakari in relation to the measures to be taken to improve the education policy of the Basque Government, for, indeed, all of his dissertation has taken me quite out of place. Anyway, I'm going to try to answer the question that was raised. As I moved in my recent appearance before the Committee on Education to present the strategic lines of my department for this parliamentary term, and more recently in this House, all of our actions have as their main objective the improvement of our education system, as it could not otherwise be. This action is part of the Euskadi 2020 strategy for sustainable human development, which was presented in full detail by the lehendakari on Friday 24 February within the government programme for the current legislature, and which in the framework of its strategic axes seeks not only the improvement of our education system, but its excellence, an education of excellence to ensure a social balance. We advanced the strategic furrows of that program of government in the occurrence I've already mentioned. It has to be observed from the very beginning that education is the primary factor of a whole society and individual progress of citizens. It is an essential element to promote the difference of choice, and to build a democratic partnership, a solid and responsible life. From an integral point of view of education, we also believe that it is necessary to advance in the quality of the euscal educational system, and, in order to achieve it, to promote justice, social education, education of values, respect for multiplicity, and freedom of belief, as well as the defence of human rights and multiplicity. To this end, we intend to promote a model of comprehensive education appropriate to the Basque citizenship of the twenty-first century, combining scientific culture and humanities, which is complemented by lifelong learning, and equips students with a critical and transformative vision of reality; a model that will be based on a new law of consensual and inclusive education, which responds to the new demands and needs of a constantly changing society. Education is a challenge, a collective challenge, and a major factor in the progress of society and people. The bet that this government favors education is clean, and we make the following commitments: to encourage education, to create a new law of eucalyptic education, to favor inclosive, effective, and innovation, to advance to excellence; to acquire more stability, social education, and more co-operation in our schools, and to encourage eloquence in the school. Ensuring equal access to education; empowering teachers as the main agents of change in educational improvement; building, reforming and adapting educational infrastructures; and promoting technological modernization of education. In addition to committing ourselves to maintaining leadership in the professional training of excellence and promoting the excellence, specialization and internationalization of the university. Eighteen commitments, eighteen strategic lines associated with all these commitments. A whole series of concrete initiatives and actions will be developed, the details of which are public. The importance we attach to the education of our sons and daughters in Euskadi is comparable to very few things. We demand the best possible training, and we do not want or should give it up. And that makes us strong, especially when some situation can make us doubt. It is true that the data known last December, the data provided by the OECD, which have caused this strong shock in our society and which is causing all these interventions, must be understood as an opportunity; an opportunity for everyone, each from our fields of action and responsibility, to be involved more intensively, if possible, in education. It must serve as an impetus to improve teaching in general, but, careful, we cannot and must not fall into short-term with the intention of shutting down criticism as soon as possible. We must be extremely responsible. As I have already pointed out in my appearance before the Committee on Education, in recent months I have been meeting with the various educational agents, in addition to other meetings held by my working team: we have met with inspection agents, berritzeguneak, the evaluated centres themselves, the agents of the educational community, the Euskadi School Council, or the ISEI-IVEI Scientific Commission and its representatives from the university, among others. And one thing is very clear: we have to work with all of them. As you know, in recent years many countries have decided to focus their education system on achieving good results in this evaluation. I believe that this is a fact that is at least questionable from an educational point of view, but the truth is that it shows a reality: the OECD countries de facto have given PISA a value that we cannot draw from. In this sense, Euskadi must be able to assess to the right extent its influence on our educational policies, but let us do so without falling into an impulse or unreal analysis of our educational system. As the lehendakari moved to the last full of control, for thirty-five years this country has created a system of education that we should be proud of. Centres, faculty, families... share with the Administration the vision of a system that must continue to generate a shared commitment and implement continuous improvement measures. And that's what we're saying over and over again. Our columns are strong, and our results give us reason. We have a long list of indicators that confirm this, which shows that it has worked well and that we want to continue working well. I'm sure it's a function of the whole society to be involved in it. Administration is the work of the professor, of the family, of all who constitute the community of education, of the most social and political agents, each of them within its own sphere. We challenge the people. All of us. For everybody's sake. We are talking about a collective challenge, a country challenge. It is a collective work that we must continue to improve from consensus; a consensus that is achieved with realism, truth, responsibility and loyalty. In the previous appearance I have already informed of the road travelled in recent months and especially since January 2015. Because I would like to highlight one aspect – and it is not because I say so; it has been collected by dozens of experts through interviews or opinion articles that we have been able to read recently –: the result of the evaluation is the result of a long journey; the processes of change require their time, they are not evaluable without a few years having passed. The above-mentioned OECD results, which have shaken us, place us at a certain time, but already before carrying out that test, and before knowing its results, from the Basque Government we have already put on the table many initiatives that must be taken into account. To mention some of them, on the one hand we must remember that in January 2015 the new curricula were published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, in which, as a first step, the number of hours of science is already increasing. This curriculum was launched just in the course of 2015-2016, before knowing the results of the evaluation but after it was carried out. And the increase in hours in science was 33%. Also, after the 2015 evaluation, carried out two months before the international test, an evaluation of our Autonomous Community, census, and whose data were presented a year later, a whole series of measures were proposed that have been included in an improvement plan, a plan to improve the education system of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Measures implemented from the same course of evaluation. We are continuously implementing improvement measures. We must not forget that the PISA 2015 evaluation is carried out before the publication of the above-mentioned decrees, as I have just said, which is the beginning of the implementation of the educational model, and that measures of continuous improvement are being taken from the department. I mentioned some initiative to advance in my performance, placed on the three-way steps of education: On the one hand, the necessary tools and materials to encourage the pedagogical education model in the classrooms; on the other, the improvement of the process of reading, which is the inevitable step of development of all other competitions, and, thirdly, we concentrate on the formation of the professor. We have passed from all learning to competition, and this profound change has forced us to change the methodology of education. Our schools ought to adapt themselves to this fundamental change, which is a matter of great importance, and which requires a great effort in the direction of education-makers of this department, professors, families, and other associations. It is essential to assure them of high quality, by offering to the teachers a proper preparation and a constant professional development, and improving the management and direction of the schools. We have good professionals, engaged teachers, zealous teachers, who know the importance of their task, and their training is directly affected by the education of the students. We will consider new methods of learning, digital instruments, and educational requirements. Because education is much more than decrees, than laws. Education is also to collaborate with the search for solutions, it is to offer the teacher the tools necessary to help them in the ongoing training. But it is also the case that families get involved so that their sons and daughters acquire reading habits when they are at home. Education is, in short, the effort of an entire team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u37	Madam Counsellor, you are absolutely right: what I have asked, what I have spoken about, has very little to do with it. But you know the problem? That this question is asked in December, as you said, and life happens and things happen, and the scenarios are becoming more and more evident, and then, well, since we were going to talk about education, I launched myself. But he's right, he's got nothing to do with it. There is one thing you have said that I do not agree with, and it is the results of the PISA reports that precipitate all that concern. That's not accurate. I refer to my colleague Iñaki Oyarzabal and to the work he has done before the PISA results. You know? I told you once that politics is very cruel, because we are paid not to work, because I think you work tirelessly. Infallibly. I remember once he told me that he had been appointed in December 2012 (I won't forget what he told me), and that since then he had not stopped working. But the problem is that politicians get paid to get it right, and that's very cruel. They pay us to hit it. So, you here have told me about things we've talked about many times, but, you know the problem? That I believe these words already sound almost passwords. I've pointed out some: aniztasuna, equitable, inclusive... We have used them so many times, it is already as if they had lost meaning. We might need to find new concepts, because they are words that already sound like spent. And I think the situation requires – once I asked for it – new leadership, and putting your feet on the ground, and recognizing the problems we have. And I, believing before Mr. lehendakari was going to answer me, was addressing him, but here we have much deeper problems than simply what is called academic results. We have a fairly important social division on what education should be, and that is why I have offered our support, because I think we can meet there. But I'm going to go to concrete things. Let's see, what worries us now (and we know you're working to eliminate it, but the problem is that we have to get it right)? The ISEC. I think that very few people have noticed, because it is not a reading that we normally do, that in the PISA reports we occupy a place that none of us think is right, but if we divide the results of the PISA report into bands of equality of the socio-economic and cultural index, that is, if we compare here the students who are at a level 4 – I put it this way... – with the students of the rest of Spain who are at a level 4, it is that we are the last! Let no one hear us! We get the results we get because globally we have a higher ISEC, a higher social, economic and cultural index, but if we lash it, if we make fringes, we are the last ones. And I don't want to say this, because Basque education..., nire hezkuntza ere bada, éta nire familiare, éta, nire familiare esan disudanez, orin daukat biloba bat eta eskola publikora joango da. Orduan, niri pena ematen said benetan... Let this be so, truly. But it is, and that worries us. We are concerned that we are far from the targets set by the European Union for 2020. Yesterday we talked about one, about English training. We are very concerned about the dual FP, because in the dual FP it turns out that almost 90% of the people coming out are placed, it's a wonder, but there are job offers that we don't have to fill. For example – I once said this – the management of robots, which is fundamental at the moment. And we are very concerned about the dual FP, we think it is poorly endowed, because there are more and more young people and the budget is maintained. That means that, as a young man, we have less and less money, regardless of Lanbide's contribution and the company's contribution. So do we. On all these things, I think we need to talk in a dialogue of good will, and reach agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u39	Mrs Bengoechea, for starters, and then going to the most global, we take into account the ISEC. ISEC is not a direct competence of education, because after all it is the index of the situation of families. You tell me about PISA, about PISA results. I have also told you in my first speech, and I have said this on other occasions, that PISA must be given the value it deserves. We must not forget it, but we must give it its proper value. It's three skills, it's not the photograph of our educational system. He talks to us about English. I think we talked enough about English yesterday. That is, according to what reference we want to take, well, there we have a study, the 2015 EPI, which tells us that we are the autonomous community that has the best level of English. Well, we can keep talking and arguing, I think it's a topic we still have on the table. And he's telling us about the dual FP. Mrs. Bengoechea, the dual FP... I'm glad you're worried about the dual FP, but I think I've already explained it to you. In the dual FP we are referents. We are referents not here, in the state: we are referents in Europe. Yesterday we were present in Brussels because we were called as a reference throughout Europe to explain what our model is, what our dual FP model is. Therefore, I believe that there we are proud, we continue to work and we will share everything that needs to be shared, but also, as I have already explained to you on several occasions, in the dual FP it is not a question of us investing more. In the dual FP, in order to develop it, we have on the one hand..., it is the investment that the companies make, and it is the involvement and the possibility that the companies welcome this student. I mean, it's not about more and more and more students. No, ma'am. It's a joint work with companies, and you have to work hand in hand with them all the time. Therefore, it is not only a matter of saying "Put more money and put more students into business." That's not right, it's not right away. You also alluded to yesterday, and this morning you also alluded to the paradigm shift. I don't know if there are times when we haven't finished understanding each other. You said that we had to reflect on the paradigm shift, that we had to define it. I would like to focus on two points. The paradigm shift in education is not defined: it is what is happening. That's what's happening in Europe, that's what's happening globally. It is a change that is taking place and to which we cannot turn our backs. Competence learning involves activating new ways of intervening with the student, so that, based on the most conceptual knowledge (this is what it is about), absolutely necessary and basic, it develops skills through procedures and strategies that allow it to give an adequate response to certain situations that exceed a previously established binomial. These learning situations, this new paradigm, are not conceived without evaluation, but also a competency assessment. This paradigm shift means we have to adapt it to our centers. This change has to be directly in our centers, and for that we need everyone's involvement. It requires a significant effort by the department, teachers and families, but also by educational agents and the various institutions or associations. All this development that we talk about when we talk about a paradigm shift – to try to explain it a little – aims to bring the process of learning by skills to the classroom, to achieve a development of both transversal competences (getting and accepting information, understanding information, valuing it, creating it, doing and undertaking, learning to live together) and disciplinary ones (competence in linguistic, mathematical, scientific, technological, social, artistic communication...). Well, these too, some of them collected in PISA. So, what we came to say is that during the last legislature we have already developed a whole series of materials, we are working hard to bring all this into the classroom. And for that we require everyone's work. So, you say what do we do? What are we doing? I've explained it to him, and if he wants we can talk long and hard. We talked about how we do it, and then also, within this model, another tool we have is the improvement plan, which Mrs Bengoechea quoted yesterday. An improvement plan that is based on a diagnosis and raises six strategic lines of intervention, which I believe are the lines on which everyone agrees. We talk about training the educational community, inclusive education and attention to diversity, bilingualism in the framework of a multilingual education school, teaching materials and information technologies, evaluation and research, and deepening the autonomy of public institutions. I think we all agree. We're putting in the tools, we're working, and what we need is for all of us to work in unison. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventh point on the theme list: "Ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about the state of the workers who are employed in loading and unloading merchandise in ports." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u41	Mr Urkullu, the decree that fortunately yesterday the Congress of Deputies pushed back uses the European sentence as an excuse, in our opinion, to attack one of the last workers who maintained decent and stable working conditions. In my question, registered a month ago, we wanted to know what you are going to do, what this government is going to do to prevent this from happening also to workers working on the estuary in Basque. Unfortunately, the answer was given yesterday by his party comrades in the Congress of Deputies, turning their backs and kicking this group of workers and supporting the People's Party decree. However, I suppose you'll want to answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Hernández, I believe it is appropriate for the Lehendakari and the Government to make it clear that the ownership, management and regulatory authority of the ports located in Euskadi is the responsibility of the Basque Government, except in the ports of Bilbao and Pasaia. Both are still state-owned, and we continue to demand their transfer. And, having said that, I would also like to remind you, as far as the Government is concerned, and I, too, as a lehendakari, that the Basque Government has shown its reticence with regard to several aspects of the proposed state legislative reform by means of the Royal Decree-Law. We have stressed in particular the negative impact of a possible sustained labour conflict over time. And that is why the Government calls on the actors involved, both public and private, to build bridges of dialogue and consensus in the regulation and development of this activity, always from the respect of the general rules established in the field of free market and access to work, also following the judgment to which you alluded by the Court of Justice of the European Union. We are aware of the complexity of this issue. We are. We have shown our support for the labour rights of the workers concerned, encouraging agreements in the area of collective bargaining in each port. In fact, agreements have been proposed for the continuity of employment, for the improvement of productivity, and for the aid to port workers. I think it will be very difficult to get better agreements than yesterday's ones, but we continue to insist from the Government on that option as well. The objective, therefore, for us, is to improve the competitiveness of the harbour docks and of the logistic and industrial sector of their environment, and in this sense the Basque Government will do everything in its power to promote the creation of employment and to guarantee access to work on equal terms for any worker or operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u45	Thank you. Mr Urkullu, your answer, well, is short and stick, more or less, to the answer you have given me to a similar question I have asked you in writing. I have no objection to that. What we believe is that it is not acceptable for you to appeal here to the social partners, to urge the social actors to negotiate, and yesterday to support the decree in Madrid, when there has not yet been agreement between the social actors and when there is still time for the agreement. You had no need yesterday to support that decree, if you really believe in collective bargaining and that it will come to a good place. So, we ask ourselves what is the reason for you to support the People's Party yesterday. Then it bothers them that in another intervention my partner Tini tells them that his new partners are the People's Party. It is clear that you have a new travel companion, who is the People's Party, because yesterday you had no need to have supported that decree practically alone. Apart from the People's Party and its traditional partners, you were the only ones who supported that decree, when there is still room to negotiate and therefore had no need. For us what is happening with this decree is very clear: it is intended, as I said at the beginning, to use as an excuse the European judgment, to attack a working sector that maintained good and stable working conditions, and also in a sector that maintained benefits. It's Margaret Thatcher's old formula: first to discredit a sector with good conditions (we've been told that they were privileged workers, because they won, I don't know how much, because they worked, I don't know how many hours, etc.), to then be able to get their hands on them. We therefore find it terrible that you should use the working conditions of the workers as a currency of change. We do not know what they have achieved from the People's Party by supporting them, but it seems serious to us. And it also seems to us serious that in your written reply one of the objectives that are being set..., you mentioned here that it is the improvement of the competitiveness of the darsenas, and in that reply that you have given us in writing it says that this has to be done also by increasing working hours. And this worries us. I don't know if you know what kind of work it is that does someone who unloads and loads a boat. I don't know if you know what eight, nine or, when you are, if this is so, ten hours doing that kind of work. We are very sorry that you supported the People's Party yesterday, because you had no need to do so, unless you are actually negotiating other things and have used the workers as a currency of exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr Hernández, I do not know where it is for you and for you, for example, the judgment of the Court of Justice of Europe. I do not know where it is for you, in all that may be the context of a negotiation and a dialogue between all the actors, to have to contemplate that negotiation by virtue of what is a judgment of the Court of Justice of Europe. The evidence you're referring to, as far as fellow travelers are concerned... It is better to look at the evidence of the consequences of what it might be like to look for fellow travellers, for what, or to interpret who the partners are at every moment. Because here partners are Basque Nationalist Party and Basque Socialist Party for a shared government program, Mr Hernández. Look, I represent and reiterate the position of the Basque Government in favour of reconciling respect for the labour rights of workers in the summer sector and the decisions of the European Court of Justice in order to promote competition in the sector, Mr Hernández. And we will put everything on our side to help find a satisfactory solution for all parties, and in this regard we believe that it is necessary to promote job stability through the application of compensation in the case of non-subrogated jobs, and to extend aid in terms of pre-retirement for the persons concerned. The way is the dialogue between trade union representatives, the employer of the sector and the Spanish Administration. And alignment with the new regulatory framework must be addressed from the point of view of negotiation, but taking into account the regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, the Congressmen of the House of Goldugust, the president's behaviour to the Director of Fame." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u49	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. "It is an open desire and aim to strengthen the ethical and moral sense of politics, as a measure of recovery in the institutions of the Basques, and in particular in the daily practice of the Euskozoa." This is the main goal of the Act Act and Ethics. The government spoke of recovering the confidence and credibility of the citizens in those days, and the code was introduced. To restore the credibility and confidence of the citizenry towards the institutions. And it seems common sense that, being these the main objectives – credibility and trust – no one would ever think of having a director of Budgets who is being investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office for an alleged crime of prevarication and embezzlement of public funds. And we really do not come today and we do not want this Government's response today to focus on the state of the case, whether there has been an oral case, an oral trial or not, or whether the presumption of innocence is sufficient reason not to undermine the credibility of the Government. We are also not talking about whether the Ethics Commission has acted on the basis of the Code itself, or whether the Code contains Law 1/2014, which regulates the Code of Conduct. We do not want you to delight us with an amalgam of dates to try to make us believe that the Government has done everything in its hands. The question is much more simple: because society, people, and people are speaking of their perception of institutions. And therefore, our uneasiness is, consequently, the question, because we think that a person who is accused of wronging public money in courts of justice, is not fit to take charge of the Prevary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. In reply, Mr. Erkok because he's a member of the team, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. You mention the ethical codes, the codes, the lawsuits, the Penal Code, all of them, but you don't want any answers around them. I am surprised that I do not know exactly what you want with the whole speech you have made here. I'll tell you something, first of all, because it's important to leave everything in place. You mentioned a verdict. It's nothing to do with that Eukong process, because it's not, and it's not even personal, because it belongs to another organization in Abaka. So, you know, it's not even direct or indirectly related. You speak of an office, and this charge, yes, was investigated in the matter, and from the fact that it was studied, he inquired after it according to the Epolitical Code which you mentioned. And the Erican Committee gave his judgment on that subject. Irakurri ez baduzu, hitzez hitz esaten du "that, in the light of the circumstances in which the statement was made and in accordance with the considerations expressed throughout the agreement, the author of the consultation may continue in the exercise of the office he holds, until, in his case, the judge or the competent court gives an order agreeing to the opening of an oral trial". I mean that he can continue his work without any trouble, in his charge, I want to emphasisify this argument in his case as far as possible, if it is given, until the trial in his mouth begins. Of course, if a verbal trial doesn't begin, there's no question of keeping it in charge without any limits. That is to say, today, what the Ethics have decided, and what has been said about this system which measures the morality of the return of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u53	Yes, thank you again. You mentioned, Mr. Erkora, that this commission had been consulted in its own time, and it is not so. It's not like that. For three months and a figs passed, and because some media published, then you took possession of it, and then you took the only measure. And this is the only measure you have read, I had read in my second round, of course, but that's what worries us a little, that's the only measure that this government has ever taken. I mean, Director Preecount didn't make enough of the Act by Red Muncher and Act Act. That's the only measure you've taken to publish it in the Bullet. And now you all want to know if you can trust me or not. Whether it gets stronger or not. No one's questioning whether this gentleman... If it's legal for this gentleman to be exercising his responsibilities today. We are not legally questioning it, in legal terms. Nor do we question his right to the presumption of innocence. I'd miss more! The only thing we are saying is that in ethical terms this gentleman is unable to be one of the most responsible in terms of the budgets and the accounts of this government. Therefore, you, by taking such a lax measure (that even a child for stealing a treat, whatever is said), are not acting seriously or rigorously. Seriousness and rigour, Mr Erkoreka, because all you are doing, keeping this gentleman on the government team, is to completely amend your own Code of Ethics. And I would like, for this second round, for you to answer a question that seems to me to be of total common sense, or that the rest of the people or most of the people in our society might understand: even as a precautionary measure, as a preventive measure, as a precaution, would you hire a person who is being investigated for burning forests as a forest guard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, the Enchantical Act is about us, the most strict, and, in many different ways, the narrowest. And it is the most advanced and most ambitious system that is formed around it. It's not because I say it. Look at what they're writing about, on a academic level, that's what they're writing about, where they're experts in this, and they make reflections and publications around the public ethics. It has just been published that a specialized article, in which the first step in the Spanish State is said to be made by our formulas, has been given by the formulary here applied. You think, as far as I can see, everything is wrong, that's all wrong, that's not acceptable, that's a good system, it's the best, it's the best, it's not the model around us, but, from your point of view, it's very weak and very small. And, on the other hand, what ought not to be confounded is necessary to attract attention. The opinion of the Committee of Ethics says nothing about the purity of the character of this person. She says she did, too late, to consult him, but she did. Its only fault in this case has been delayed in its planning. Consider the exact degree in which the system is strict. That's why he says he didn't behave properly in formal compliments, but he doesn't question the rest of the political and economic activity. That's clear. This system says so and the best...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek... 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Juli Uruzuno Goldsti EH gathered together to the president, "Am I an attorney and you? "About the pollen produced after the programme, and the measures of control announced by the government." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u57	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, I'm an Euscalist in February 8, and you? "The program is making a fuss about personal opinions sent by some individual. And there's been a row about a month after the program quit. This shows, first, that those who speak so much of EIB seem not to see EIB. And in the middle of this uproar, the president, the government, announced that the control measures should be established. After that, we don't know what a result this program is since it was removed from the EIB platform. That, in our opinion, is censorship. In the first place, it indicates, that if there had not been any disturbance, the Government would not have intervened; so that we believe, that the measure taken has been taken by other political variables, and that it has been taken into the hands of other interests. So the question is: We have agreed that EITTB must make a reform in this Chamber, and it has been formed for this purpose. Does the president think that the censorship in that new EIB which should be created or must continue to exist?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, you know, the RedMork hasn't suggested or accepted any ratings. What he's done has been published in front of a specific program. This is done by many other people, by institutions and by all political parties, by yours, Mr. Urzuno. EIB himself cleared the program context: he criticized the use of the summary of the video which has been expanded, and showed that he had no other intention of making confession. EIB, therefore, explained the context itself, and gave all the explanations to be given by EIB, and I accept as follows: "EIB is agreed that some of the expressions which have been made in the session have been injurious, and, knowing this, he wishes to apologize to the party and friends who have been insulted." And he says: "It is time to take the measures of control, to avoid being offended. EIB has an engagement to make for life, for opinion and social barrier." And that's what the EIB Manager says. And I quite agree with everything EditiB said. I agree, too, with the attitude that has appeared to close the excitement that has been set on fire, and at least for me this subject is closed. Mr Urruzuno, neither before nor now will we accept any measure of censorship in the public media. The programme contract is clear in the commitment to contribute to coexistence, plurality of views and social cohesion: Government, Parliament and the board of directors have control mechanisms to ensure strict compliance with these commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u61	I repeat, this program has been removed from the EIB platform, after some statements made by the "Male" and the President-I don't know. And we must place ourselves in the context of a humorous program: humor, irony, satire may please or not, may be unpleasant, but there can be no reason why they should be censured. Which side of the censorship has appeared, Mr. President? PP, PSE, has appeared, has Covite appeared, has been introduced, and who has opposed the censorship? The only professional voice, the Council of EIB, and the Council of EIB, said among others: "We accuse the impartial and interested use of this essay onETB. We don't agree with the decision the EIB manager has made to remove the session from all platforms." That's what the EIB Reducation Council said. And the president and the government, who is it that stands next? Is he in charge of these first (Covite, UPN, and PP) or with EITB workers? It was Shifted with the first ones. Well, now that we're in that strategy, this strategy may be allowed not to be a strategy of getting angry, but instead of protecting the workers of ETB and those who've made the program, we're prepared to establish the censorship of EIB, if this puts some relations or adapts to us with uniformity and the Brunete mediatic. And the mediatic Brunete isn't what I'm saying, I think a senator of your party said that the president has slipped with Brunete the mediatic Brunete, and that, in our opinion, is the most important thing. And I repeat, it is lawful, as a political strategy, to use it for the censorship of EIB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Census, check measures, what do we have left, Mr. Urruzuno? And I've told you about the censorship and I've explained to you, and I've already explained to you the means of the contract, and not if you're mad, you're not a lawyer, you're also a member of the administration's jurisdiction. How could you say that the program was suspended for you when you said it had been a month and a month before, and that this chapter had been the end of that program? How can you come here and tell me this, Mr. Urzuno? You know you're not really in this case. The legislative has agreed to form a crew for the Reformation of EIB: I agree with the agreements which have been made to set up that crew, and we shall consider the contributions proposed. That's right, I want to remind you that the relationship between the Basque and the EIB is handled by a contract program, so we have a responsibility, we have a responsibility. and it is our responsibility to guarantee the observance of public engagements, to guarantee the degree of the principles which appear in that contractor. The explanations offered by EITB seem therefore necessary, correct and sufficient. I have given this question for a solution. As you point out, the important thing for me is the agreement reached in this House to launch the ITB reform paper from consensus. But, Mr. Urruzuno, begin to enter a landslide of what is humorous and insulting...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Time is up. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, which is made by the members of the Council of Othello to the President, about the legal initiatives which may occur in front of the reopening of Garoña." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u65	Good morning. Good noon, everyone. Mr. President. I admit that I come a little hot, because I thought I'd order a T-shirt against Garoña for today, but after Mr. Telleria's emotional speech yesterday about the cannellones of his childhood and the importance it has not to incur in the consumerism of T-shirts I have arranged to bring some stickers, so as not to offend anyone, so I put it on. That's right, if anyone wants to, I've brought it in to distribute, but, well, we don't stay there. On the 2nd of February, this legislature in another proposition received from Garoña, which was the following: "The law of Europe has decided to ask for the legal services of the Chamber, if the Spanish Government decides to reopen Garoña, let them examine the chances of all the judicial instances which may be necessary to prevent it, and to make a report of what may be considered in a month's time, in any legal and administrative part of the legal administration, in order to close Garoña once for all." The report of the legal services of the parliament arrived on February 28th, and his examination left us several points of interest on the table. It seems to us, by the impulse of this legislature, that a number of enterprises are possible, and, knowing this, we have proposed several undertakings. What about your government? What will your government take the next few steps to close Garoña? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, I have read the report which the jurists of the legislature have prepared, and I am essentially conformable to what is said here. Now it is necessary to see whether the legislature will give a step there, that is to say, whether it will enter into it, or not, and if, in its case, it becomes personified, what steps or steps it takes, how it acts in its procedure. It doesn't have to take that step, because it's been interested in the process, so it's free to make the demands he wants or can make. And it has long been said that, using this position, he will use all the resources and devices he has at his disposal, both in the legal and political level, and even in the institutional order that this nuclear Plant of Garoña should be permanently closed. As to the procedure you are speaking of, what is at this moment, is what it is at this moment, the Dictates itself, first and then carefully, to collect all the steps and all the information and documentation that are contained in it, and secondly to exhibit the means against all the facts which are recurrievalable, contrary to the facts which may be found in the procedure. In the first place, if the administrative road is exhausted, and Garoña is still open, it will be there by the danger of proceeding to the courts of justice. The judicial method, as a matter of fact, would be adopted if the final decision of the administration is to start Garoya or to pursue it. If it is not for this, the use of judicial resources would not be necessary. But it follows carefully in the course of the procedure, and has a strong plan for presenting resources: and then on the judicial road, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u69	Okay, thanks for the explanation. But today I was hoping for something else. I was hoping you could surprise us and tell us that administrative appeal is already in place, and you didn't say that. So again, we'll go with a disappointment. It seems to me that the principal side that supports this government was to accept the law of the Economics of the Economy of the Spanish Essence, which was the last important part of the work done in the neighborhood of Van Garoña. In 2011, you made it, and this law, for the first time, seemed to open up the life of nuclear Plant over 40 years. Mr. Erkora, you had to take Garoña out of the deal the next day. But today it is that law which sets the foundation for the folly of opening it again. That's... But answer me, please. You didn't mention the appeal, you said you were looking for information, but we're back on the deadline to appeal. And if you don't, why won't you? You're afraid to get angry, too, with this thing? This government seems to me to show the preference of Garoña every day, and it seems to us to be a little small, because in your business you are interested in, you make high-speed agreements, both here and in Madrid: high-speed budgets, high-speed business... If we put your conduct in the words of Soraya Saáenz de Santamarí, he said not much ago: "A Urkullu lo que le preocupa es a quien se ad judeccan las lais del TAV." Tonight, of course, Soray wouldn't say that; you seem to have helped, and perhaps at times you agree not to put Garoña on your shirt instead of taking all the possible measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u71	Your second interference, Mr. Otero, has reminded me of what a lady of my old age said: "Qué más is dead, que jabón, si todo es para la ropa," because you have confused everything, picking up things from one and the other, some have nothing to do with others. In the first place, the appeal and resource are synonymous. I have here said twice, that we shall present all sorts of means in procedure; First of all, the administrative method, and then the judicial road, if necessary. And your question is: "And do you have a way of introducing any appeals? "I don't know. Convinced and resource is the same thing. Son sleep mism. Lo mismi. They're synonyms. When I say here, then, that we shall present resources in the administration, first on the administrative road, and then on the judicial road, I do not understand. Number two. Maybe what you're asking is if he's planning to present a resource against the report of the Nuclear Security Council. But if you do that, you probably haven't read enough about the legal reports made by the legal services of this parliament. You haven't read it. Ask them for appearances, ask them to put the trigger here on the chest, but then because we don't do things properly because the targets are other things, because priorities are different. The Recursies will be proposed, but this report says that the contrary resource is probably meaningless because it is a temporary act and, secondly, because it is a technical content report, and that no appeal can extend any further to the Administration in the future, in order to make certain apparences, and to plan the means. All resources, then, jurists, politicians, and institutions. All of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u72	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies, myria Kortja, the lawmakers of the Ibañi, the Chief of the Society, made for the long-term labouring departments of Empedugus and Society." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u73	The head of the table, the members of the legislature, the chief physician, good day. It is one of the greatest challenges of society at this moment, and the numbers are there to account for a crude and harsh reality. Six of them have been looking for more than a year since they've lost ten, and half of them have been looking for more than two years. 60,000 people have been out of employment for more than two years, most of them are long-term unemployed, over 45 years. Although we have symptoms of a slow and slow employment, yet the state of long-continued labouring does not improve. On the contrary, the situation is aggravated, as statistics explain. In proportion as they have improved something, they are people who are in great danger of cronification, because they become more and more difficult to get out of this situation. Sara de la Rica, who is in chains at the University of Euscala, in the report of the day's work in 2016, explains it clearly: 760,000 people were out of work for over a year, 64% of those who were registered in the profession. The report concerns the data very much. 760,000 of the long-sanged, 76.300s have been looking for more than two years for jobs, 47 percent of unemployed. De la Rica pointed out that, despite having lower unemployment rates than elsewhere in the State, it is located, together with La Rioja and Asturias, in the group where the incidence of long-term unemployment is highest. In this sense the expert explains also a peculiar distinction in this community. It's very long-lived and very focused on people over 45 years in our long-term unemployment. These people over 45 have a long experience of work, but it's a very poor and defascitable level of quantization. This is a fact: here it is raw and raw. We are facing a painful situation, I dare say, in front of one of the most brutal consequences of the crisis. Behind these facts, for there are people who are very ill at ease, people who have the sense of what we have forgotten, and who have fallen into utter despair. De la Rica herself felt that it was urgent to speed up the implementation of comprehensive guidance measures, including the formation of this group in order to reverse a situation which, in her view, is neither improving nor softening. Public policies have a great expression in dealing with the unjust state of this size; for the public employment policy ought to make it a chief instrument for the solution of this cruel reality, if it be taken with the proper measures. And in front of that, what's the answer to this? Well, despair and little efficiency; this is what we see in the government's operations. Government works as a phenomenon which is inevitable the problem of long-term unemployment. It indicates his anxiety, announces that he will make an effort, that he marks the situation of these collectiveities even among the priorities, but essentially the same: He's still doing the same thing, even if he doesn't know that it doesn't work, he's still doing it. It's such a sign that I'm sure you've just introduced a job strategy. The uneasiness about this collective collective collective form of action is once more apparent; but, independently of the firm intention of producing it, the propositions are alike or for ever. And that's not enough. The state does not improve, but the profession does not succeed in answering the proper orientation and the needs of the society. Many of the orientation services are sterilized, and the rare choices offered are the employment plans in the region, a little wind of six months, at the end of them, to return to raw reality. La situción se cronification, y las viejas fórmulas no son vádas, señora Artolalli. We're in front of a drama. "Se there ovidado de nsotros," said a long-continued laboured man, but not long ago, to the thread of a conversation made about the report of De la Rica. These people have no reason to hope, and the data is there. You know the data about the RGI, and Cáritas, at the same time, has announced other facts in the same way, and even in the records of the poverty which we have seen published today, the dimensions and rawness of these problems may be clearly seen. The details say he's getting infected by poverty, and he's getting infected by more than 40 years old. If, as a result of the crisis, we lose their jobs, and, according to all its symptoms, we do nothing about it, at least, between those who will never come back, it imagines a perfect twin, from unemployment to RGI and RGI, that we must re-enable them to it. They are here when we are told, and again, and you know the preventions I like. Let's do it first. We'll have to get to work before we take that step, otherwise we'll put them in a spiral. On that return of 45 years, the projects of life are broken and there's no way out, because if they don't connect, then they'll become a poor pensioner. We need active, effective policy, otherwise the chronification of the unemployed over 45 years will be inevitable. And the department looks at the young people and is making an effort. He introduced us to young people's work plans. For us, they're a little short, but, well, they're beginning, and this collective needs them too. All experts say that a collision plan is needed, that this collective needs special measurements. And where are these special measures? Because in a big bag, Mrs. Artola generous and all these unemployed departments have been put into. In this large purse, which has difficulty in working, and which is in this great bag, shall we begin? Is it possible to answer a situation like this? I believe that in this legislature there is no new concern in what I explain to you today, and I should say that your concern is also that there is a proposition even of your party, and I am sure of it. And this legislature took place in that direction, too, from an initiative that our team brought in at 2015. And this lawyer asked me to introduce you to a special plan, and to provide that plan for money, to provide the special attention they needed for long-term unemployed people. What did you do in that sense? Where's the plan? I know you've tried to tell me that your department and I won't make it, because they've tried, but they're not enough, and they're not successful. the X-ray of state and situation is very clear, and all the experts tell us that we have to change direction. And we don't see any shifts on the jobs strategy or the budgets the department presented to us. It is not correct in the specific care required by the collective of people in long-term unemployment, and we also cut the protection system. A perfect match for a movie script, "Mondays in the Sun", which I imagine we've all seen. What happens is that this script is a reality in this Autonomous Community, because we are leading those people to despair. That's why our team wants to ask you the right question, Miss Artola generous: In the course which the majority of this legislature agreed on in the preceding law, what precise measure will AMANDY take to treat the long-continued labours of this community in order and order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u75	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs Kortajarena, I share with you that attention to the long-term unemployed is a great challenge that we have, as it is one of the most serious and difficult problems caused by the economic crisis. We are aware that this situation exposes these people to the risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion. The chronification of unemployed people is one of our biggest concerns, and to avoid that situation and seek solutions we work hard in our department. The prolongation of this situation creates particular difficulty in re-engaging in employment. Among the factors that affect the exit to employment, the time that the unemployed person has been looking for this job is one of its main determinants. Alongside this, the demand for higher-skilled profiles on the part of companies is a handicap for those with a lower degree of preparation. One of the priorities in the fight against unemployment is therefore to avoid its chronisation. And chronic unemployment has important consequences for people (in problems of self-esteem, risk of social exclusion, lower expectations of access to employment...) and for society as a whole, since greater social inequality can occur. For these reasons, support for people with special difficulties in accessing employment is part of a comprehensive concept and strategy, providing them with the necessary resources to enable them to return to work. From this planned and orderly process we will be able to increase the chances of these people returning to the labour market. Some of the keys that should follow these types of interventions are already contained in the Basque Employment Strategy, and are: First, the adoption of a personalized approach that takes into account the specific needs of each group and person. Each situation and individual needs different support tools and at different times, so an adequate definition of training and employment routes is essential to the success of these processes. Recasting, which is also shown as one of the main demands. For those in this long-term unemployment situation, it is one of the initiatives that we need to take, especially in the case of people with low training or who, for different reasons, for example, have been away from the labour market for a long time to have been engaged in home care or dependent people. This recasting must end both specific and other cross-cutting skills, including technological and digital skills, which are increasingly relevant for accessing employment. Also, and within these keys, valuable tools to be relied on for their usefulness are the integration companies, which can already form a valuable bridge between the re-training phase and access to regular employment. There are insertion companies dedicated to specific groups, and there are many that mark among their principles that goal of recovering those unemployed people for the labour market. It is essential to continue to support these initiatives. Finally, another key is the maintenance and development of recruitment incentives, especially if they are stable, for these people with special difficulties in accessing employment. The European Union's recommendations for the definition of measures to be developed for the care of long-term unemployed are also defined along the same lines. The recommendation is aimed at offering these people a concrete and personalized plan, in order to determine their needs and potential, and to offer them what the Commission calls a "work integration agreement". Well, this recommendation of good practice that the Commission recommends is already being made in the offices of Lanbide: since 2014 there has been a specialized guidance service for groups with special difficulties in the integration of workers. During 2016, 43,228 persons registered in Lanbide and long-term unemployed have received a specific service. The number of such assistance amounts to more than 198,000, of which 78 % was for guidance, 14 % for training and 9 % for employment promotion. In view of the fact that in this situation there are those people who have the longest time in unemployment, over this period they have focused on individualised work with them in order to be able to learn more about their qualifications for employment as well as their needs. Among them was the group of women and men who had not been unemployed for two years, but all those who had worked for less than twelve months in the last eighteen months. Knowing the qualifications and experience of all these people in employment is essential, in addition to optimizing and increasing their skills, managing and facilitating the training resources most adapted to their reality. Thus, long-term unemployed people receive personalized treatment where the resources and needs they have are identified, so as to initiate what in Lanbide is called "personal employment agreement". The plan may include mentoring, support in the search for employment and further training, as well as support in the application for income guarantee income. At the same time, thanks to the collaboration agreement signed by the Basque Employment Service with more than 150 municipalities of the Autonomous Community under the active inclusion agreements, people are derived from municipal social services to ensure coordination between different areas of the administration in the guidance and follow-up of these unemployed persons. This is only the beginning of those policies that allow the comprehensive approach of people, in order to ensure the continuity and coherence of the service offered. In this way, from the Basque administration, from the government, we offer a continuous personalized service over time, combining with training, shared with other systems and with autonomous aids that guarantee a system of protection. Obviously, the problem is complex, and therefore the answer cannot be unique. At the moment, the Department of Employment and Social Policy is immersed in the definition, within the framework programme for employment and economic recovery, of the strategic employment plan 2017-2020. It is going to be a fundamental tool for us to reduce the unemployment rate below 10%, and it is a task in which we have to work the whole of society, businesses, administrations and social agents. The priority measures we are defining in this plan are aimed at promoting and enabling access to the labour market for those groups who have the greatest difficulties. And, as we put it on the government agenda, employment is going to be our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u77	Yes, again, thank you. Mrs. Artola generous, to be perfectly honest with you... , tengo la sensación de que tumos un discurso de la la la laga duracion, como el desempleo. For, in truth, I have read the feeling that the answers given by our group in this sense are very similar to the answers given by the Chief Toñaa. And, of course, I agree with the diagnosis of which you say that you do not, but I have mentioned Andrea, and all those things which you have spoken of, I do one with them, and I would buy them. But we all know the real situation, and we all know what the real reality of the profession is at this moment. And I'd like to know... In this long, and, indeed, believing must be the direction, we must consider how all these measures of efficiency have been, for even if we look at efficiency and understand the problem to be of great complexity, there has been no great efficiency. I believe that if this government has a functionary axis, and has a special purpose, and has a special intention, with those persons who have most of their business to work, it must reflect more deeply. And in that sense we need open heads and courage and new challenges. And that was why I read with joy the idea of putting an observatory in place of you yesterday, when I saw this account of the observatory a little smile, which came out of my head a little, as soon as the passion which had been born here the week before was proposed a visit to the prosecution. As a matter of fact, we'll follow the course of this observatory closely, because it seems to us that we can afford very interesting data and interesting paths. But, in action, we need innovation, and we really need to answer, not with formal answers, the needs of this collective and public society. The profession ought to disturb it; we have already directed a reform there, and we must place it in this Carriral. And that's where you can't accept self-plancities. Consistent preparations... we must adapt the catalogue we have there, in this sense, to the wants we have, and to the exigencies of those persons. These line of formation is no good for everyone. We're able to get people out of class. You've mentioned the companies of social society again, and of course I'd like to push them too. But, you know, after the crisis, how many companies of social society have been shut down in this community? We'll have to use local development as well. There are beautiful experiences in this sense, and coordination will be important in that sense. We're going to have to consider other plans like the social companies. The social Klausulas, for instance, offer us these means. Open heads and new ways to open, Mrs. Artola generous, are of no use to eternal formularies. Here are the formulas for all of them. you also said that these special attentions must be required. And that's the way we have to put it. More courage, less conformism and less self-possession do I require from this chief of department, in order to gain the challenge of this size. I'd like to finish with one thing, and I'd like to say that this long-term jober, that woman, said: "Nos there dejado soos, nos there dejado talk." Les tumos dejado solos." These people are standing alone and we can't give up on this story. We can't imagine that, owing to the crisis and the result of our system, some people will be systematically left at the expense of it. Our team is planning to get us a project that won't leave anyone behind. We have often told you about this, that you will have us escorted, but seriously, with courage and true commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Kortajarena, we're not leaving anyone behind. I also share the idea that we need to evaluate the policies we are putting in place, because that evaluation will also allow us to improve or change them. I believe that the unemployment data for February of this year gave us an indicator that had to excite us or that had to motivate us to continue working, because already in that unemployment data it was shown or there were signs that the unemployed over forty-five years of age were beginning to enter the labour market. Therefore, it is true that we must continue to do things, but also an objective fact that the things that are being started work is that these kinds of collectives... That when I spoke to you, when it comes to addressing the policies that we have to do since Lanbide, I did say that we have to stratify what people are... because the recipes are not the same for everyone. The group of people over forty-five years old and long-term, together with women and the disabled, are something that we have very much in mind, apart from youth, that for that we will make a specific plan with specific games. Another of the initiatives... When you tell me we're self-pitying, I don't share that idea. What we really need to highlight is the result and the work and effort that this Government, together with this House and the rest of society, is putting in to prevent these situations from being chronicled over time. And yes, we are putting in place innovative initiatives or at least new ones, as you have pointed out, with the launch of this prospective observatory, that what will do is try to reconcile the needs that these companies have, our business fabric, with the objectives, and also with the training and guidance that for the unemployed – including the long-term ones – we have to set in motion. Since 2015, the various calls for local development aid, with more than EUR 20 million, have established as a priority group for recruitments carried out, both by companies and by local or outsourced entities themselves, those in a situation of greatest vulnerability, among them those which have been unemployed for more than twelve months in the last year and a half. This initiative is launched without waiting for these people to have more than two years of unemployment. As you can see, Mrs Kortajarena, in our initiatives we not only contemplate the special difficulties of the population to which you refer, but also for us the concept of a long-term unemployed person is the subject of detailed attention and development. It is not in vain that those who are suffering from the crisis, the most important effects of the crisis, are more aware of them so that they can present initiatives with the aim of gaining access to the labour market. With this initiative, we encourage companies to facilitate such integration, and also to optimize the extensive experience on numerous occasions of both women and men with significant professional development but who, due to a complicated situation, have had to remain in the field of unemployment, who can gain access to employment. Our commitment is clear, Mrs Kortajarena. This Government is committed to presenting in the first half of 2017 a framework programme for employment and economic recovery, where the strategic employment plan will be a key axis. And in this strategic employment plan that we as a department have the objective of carrying out we must include measures in favour of youth employment, such as those that we have transferred; of the full incorporation of women in economic and labour activity; of promoting local and regional plans, in order to prioritize actions aimed at promoting the employability of those groups that have greater difficulties in the integration of workers. We recently sent them a written reply identifying the initiatives and actions we were taking in the long-term unemployed and we are going to carry out, that local actions to promote employment are aimed at increasing the employability of these people, and that through these temporary work experiences their skills, competence and motivation are enhanced. I would insist that 70% of the recruitments must be made by persons who belong to one of the following groups: over thirty-five years of age, over forty-five years of age, job seekers who have been unemployed for more than six months, long-term unemployed persons... At least 40% of the total number of such persons hired also have to be women. And I conclude. Employment is our priority. Our basic axis of action is work and management to achieve better and more employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemus... made to environmental, Planting, and Housing Department of the Environment, Planting, and Housing Department of Housing. " Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u81	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Mr Arriola, these days ago, as I was preparing this inquiry, I had doubts as to how to present this issue of the circular economy to the plenary, because I have the feeling that most of the parliamentarians present here surely do not sound or interest them, although it is a crucial issue, from the point of view of Elkarrekin Podemos, for the Basque economy. That is why I think it is necessary to start by explaining that the circular economy, to a large extent, is nothing more or less than what we knew twenty years ago by the famous three mistakes of reducing, reusing and recycling our waste. Only now there are a lot of people who are making themselves gold organizing talks to explain the concept. Because it seems, at last, that governments have now realized something that the ecological movement has been explaining for over forty years to anyone who wants to hear it, and that our economic system has, among many other flaws, three weaknesses in its sustainability. The first is that our economies produce a huge amount of waste, due on the one hand to excessive consumption of the products to use and throw away, and also to the sale of products with an artificially limited life by the manufacturers themselves, so that soon we have to buy other new products. The second weak point is that our factories (also the Basques) use raw materials very poorly, and that in addition these raw materials are in many cases non-renewable and therefore finite. And the third weak point is that if we continue with this rate of production and consumption some of these raw materials are going to be scarce and others are going to be increased, as in fact they are already doing, which is going to be detrimental to those economies that generate more waste or use raw materials in a less efficient way. That is why the European Commission, aware of these weaknesses, has been concerned for several years about the possible negative effects on the European economy that the shortage of certain essential raw materials could have, and finally (at last!), both the European Commission and some governments have realized that the future of our economies is necessarily about developing three lines of work. The first, manufacture more durable and better quality products, and cope with the planned obsolescence in many items of common use. The second is to extend the shelf life of the products by ensuring that there are activities and spare parts that allow them to be repaired and reused by others. And the third line of work is to recycle the waste materials that are generated in our society, for which it is necessary to make a philosophical change, which is to stop considering the waste as something undesirable that has to destroy everything, and to begin to perceive it as valuable raw materials, which can generate wealth and employment, even to reach the goal of zero waste. Because it is. For every 10,000 tons of waste that is recycled or composted, 300 jobs are created, while incineration creates only one. But it is also possible to recover raw materials that do not exist in a country like Euskadi, such as metals. That is why urban mining has already been mentioned to refer to the selective collection of metal materials that many people at risk of exclusion make daily in the streets of our cities. And that urban mining is more profitable and less polluting than the traditional one. And yet here in Euskadi the trend that our administrations are following is precisely the opposite. We continue to consider urban waste as a problem, and that is why we are looking for quick and decisive solutions, such as incineration, without counting that every kilo of garbage that enters an incinerator is a kilo of wealth that we are destroying. And I say well: they are materials that we destroy, because energy recovery, that euphemism behind which we want to mask the burning of waste, not only does it not produce energy, but it consumes it. Burning a ton of paper like this requires spending 626 calories, while recycling it would save us 1,513 calories, which are what we need to convert a tree into this sheet of paper. It is enough to apply the first principle of thermodynamics to become aware of fraud. On the other hand, last Tuesday the European Parliament adopted a report with a number of amendments to the Waste Framework Directive, including an increase in the target for selective collection of urban waste by 2030 from 65 % to 70 %, and the target for recycling packaging waste to 80 %. The incoherence between the waste policies being carried out in Euskadi and the trends that are going to come to us and are already coming to us from Europe is therefore striking. And yet, the groups that support the Government have not been able to resist the temptation to quote in their parliamentary agreement the need to favour the circular economy – and I read it textually – "through economic instruments that encourage the reuse, recycling and recovery of waste, as well as through green taxation instruments, in coordination with the outside bodies". However, in practice, when the time has come to issue figures, the government's policy on the circular economy in the budgets is limited to an item of EUR 350,000 for waste management policies. So much noise, for so few nuts. Hence my question: What policies and actions will be carried out in your department with 350,000 euros to meet the obligations of selective collection, recycling and composting that will soon reach us from the European Union? How are we going to adapt an economy like the Basque one to the principles of the circular economy, if we are dedicating ourselves to burning the wealth that contains our waste? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u83	Thank you, President. Within the Europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, driven by the European Union, one of the main lines is to move towards a Europe that uses resources effectively. Within it is framed the concept of circular economy, which aims to change the current linear economy of resource extraction, manufacture, use and disposal, by a new circular model of society that uses and optimizes the stocks and flows of materials, energy and waste, and whose ultimate objective is the greatest efficiency in the use of resources. One of the main milestones in the promotion of this concept was the adoption in December 2015 of a package of measures of the so-called European Union Action Plan for the Circular Economy, which aims to focus mainly on the life cycle of products, from design to residue and re-entry into the market as a new raw material. In addition to promoting a more sustainable society and promoting job creation, economic growth and investment, climate change and the environment are also being addressed. In this regard, on 26 January 2017, the European Commission produced the first report on the implementation of the circular economy action plan, which includes guidance to Member States on the transformation of waste into energy and proposes an improvement of legislation on certain substances. The lines marked by the European Union with regard to waste set clear reduction targets and set a long-term path that my department is going to push to achieve in Euskadi. To this end, we have laid down a strategy that is not limited to imposing a dumping fee for the landfilling of waste, but seeks, from the current situation, a total approach that integrates the various actions in the same line that involves all agents, both public authorities and entities, private companies and citizens. In this context our policy, and ratified the commitment to move forward on this path, the department's lines of action will follow these lines: One. Promotion, reuse and recycling from a real perspective, applying the research, development and innovation factor in the technologies and proposals to be developed through Ihobe public society. Two. To promote public-private collaboration, seeking an industrial symbiosis that converts the waste from one industry into raw materials from another, so that landfill is avoided and re-introduced into the market. Three. The legislative impetus to declare certain wastes as valuable or recyclable, to avoid their dumping and to promote their reuse. Four. Promote green public procurement. And five, study and develop green taxation. With regard to the first line of promotion (promoting reuse and recycling, encouraging the application of R & D & i), the idea is to encourage companies to develop products and services of greater added value and have more efficient processes, so that they can improve their competitiveness and close the cycles of the main flows of materials they use. For this, from Ihobe we are working with the Basque Ecodesign Center, aimed at supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, key within the Basque business fabric, in a center that brings together fifty companies, and its main objective is the training and training of its staff to launch technical projects carried out with criteria of co-innovation and services that improve their positioning in the market. Within the Basque Ecodesign Center, documentation and procedures are developed that can be applied to Basque companies and that have an important value from the point of view of the objectives we want to achieve. It also works from Ihobe at the Basque Ecodesign Hub, with thirty-five young people, on eco-efficiency projects of various kinds, through collaborations with different universities to promote job creation in the eco-innovation sector. And we also participate in European projects. With regard to the promotion of public-private collaboration, the idea is to create a link between companies, so that waste producers in certain industrial sectors promote an infrastructure that allows for the conversion of those into raw materials or products for other types of companies. This opens up a new market niche around waste that will help create jobs. In this sense, the actions will involve the search for emerging technologies and the updating of the Basque catalogue of clean technologies. Ihobe's line of circular economy demonstration projects. A call for aid aimed at creating new solutions on the market and opening up business opportunities in a circular economy, carrying out industrial or pre-industrial tests that confirm the technical, economic and environmental viability of innovative alternatives (this year priority will be given to the remanufacturing and reuse of plastics and metals). Promote the updating of integrated environmental authorisations from the Directorate of Environmental Administration, in accordance with the best available techniques that are marked from the European Union. The active participation of representatives of the Directorate of Environmental Administration in the various European committees for the elaboration of new rules and their subsequent communication, through the Basque clusters, to the different sectors. The development of guides and technical specifications from Ihobe, this year specifically on high efficiency pumps, high efficiency lighting systems, residual heat recovery in furnaces, near net shape technologies, and automation, regulation and process control systems. Lines of annual grants to municipalities and companies from the Natural Heritage and Climate Change Directorates, and from the Environmental Administration Directorate, which will include a specific section for waste and projects linked to the circular economy or with effects in this area. Launch of tractor projects from Ihobe with integration of the R+D+i value chain, in collaboration with private entities. As regards the regulatory impetus, we are going to look at various possibilities of rules, which will go, on the one hand, from the declaration as valorizable of different waste streams, to the promotion of the use of some waste for other sectors. In particular, a decree will be drawn up this year for the use of black steel slag and a technical instruction for construction and demolition waste. In addition, taking into account the complex process of approval of these types of standards, progress will be made in the study of other waste lines, such as clean lands of excavation, smelting sands, ashes from biomass burning, slurry and carbonate, sewage sludge and white steel slags, all in order to clarify their recycling and valuation possibilities. Following the cross-cutting scheme of actions, it is necessary to create a market that demands new products that have emerged under the circular economy, and in this the Administration must play an exemplary role as a consumer, and we will therefore encourage green public procurement, until now very little developed, and we will continue to work to facilitate its application to any kind of government or public body. In this area, from Ihobe, standard green purchase clauses will be studied and developed, facilitating the inclusion of different administrations in product and service procurement documents, thus promoting the introduction into the market of products manufactured through waste recovery. By way of example, our department will be the first to incorporate environmental criteria with real weight in its bidding, offering in this way a plus in the works and services it promotes and leading the model of environmentally responsible administration that must be extended to the rest of the public sector. And finally, as another strategic line of action, which is also derived from the European Union, we are going to study the implementation of green taxation, counting on the active involvement of the Basque Government's Department of Finance and the out-of-pocket farms of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u85	I, Mr Arriola, already knew part of these plans that you have presented; I was able to read them even in the memory of the draft budgets. I know the work that Ihobe is doing in terms of efficiency and ecodesign, and it is an important work that is done by the Basque company and that has its route. I also know what Ihobe has done historically on the issue of green public procurement; it is not something new that you present to us now. This green procurement catalogue has been in existence for several years now. I'm glad they're finally getting it started. But what I was referring to in my speech is that right now the bulk of the circular economy, the bulk of the Euskadi waste problem, is in urban waste. It is in urban waste where we are doing the worst as a country, and it is in urban waste where I asked you, in your first appearance in committee to explain the plans of your department, that the Basque Government had to face its responsibility and competence in coordinating the different waste plans of the historical territories. Because right now what we have in Euskadi is: in Araba most of the waste goes to landfill, in Bizkaia we burn it, and in Gipuzkoa we will burn it. And that goes radically against the policies that the European Union is marking for us in this area. That means that all the investments that are being made in this regard are wrong, wrong, and will also have a serious impact on the Basque economy. In the area of urban waste management in particular, they are asking us in the European Union to increase selective collection to 70%. After the campaigns carried out by the PNV and the PSE in Gipuzkoa to boycott certain selective collection systems, I do not think that these selective collection rates will improve, because there has not been a single campaign for years to promote separation at source. In the area of recycling, we will be asked to recycle 80% of the packaging. Right now a quarter of the containers that go to the yellow container end up incinerating or in the landfill too, and nothing is being said about it. If there really is a spirit and an interest in promoting recycling and reuse, I ask you to support, your group and the Basque Nationalist Party, the non-law proposal that we are going to submit in committee to implement a system of return of packaging. That is effective in reducing the amount of packaging. And thirdly, they're going to ask us to reduce the spill to 5%, and this is where we find you saying, "We're going to deploy a spill canon." All right! They also set up a canon against incineration, because incineration also prevents us from meeting the objectives of the European Union. And in addition, the incineration indirectly causes us to increase the amounts of spillage. Look, Majorca's had an incinerator for twenty or twenty-five years. I professionally participated in his design twenty-five years ago. What's the matter with Majorca right now? A news report from last month says: "Medi Ambient – the Department of Environment – warns that the capacity of the ash deposit is being depleted without a solution." Does this sound familiar to you? 30% of the waste that is incinerated becomes scumbags that have to go to a dump, which is why that policy that you sold in Gipuzkoa, that the dumps are over, is radically false. And we are going to continue to increase the amount of landfills in this country, not to put in garbage, but to put in the incinerator slags. And this puts us radically against the policies of the European Union. So what I would ask as a government is that in some way, because of our responsibility to the Basque economy, we finally start to promote recycling and reuse, because the Basque economy needs certain raw materials that we can only find in waste right now. And I'm going to read to you, in 2010 the European Commission warned of the shortage of fourteen essential mineral raw materials for high-tech products (such as mobile phones, photovoltaic modules, lithium ion batteries or fiber optic cables) that our economy is manufacturing. They lack antimony, beryllium, cobalt, fluoride, gallium, germanium, graphite, Indian, magnesium, niobium, wolframium, rare lands and tantalum. This is not achieved when the garbage has been placed in an incinerator, these raw materials can no longer be separated. They only get through to recycling. I would therefore ask you to change the policies of your Government, because the interest of the Basque economy is above the interests of certain builders who only want an incinerator to be put in place, above any other political and economic considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u87	Well, that's what the question was hiding, isn't it? Okay, okay. But he's going to listen to me, because I'm going to answer what the question was. I will also answer what you said, but I will answer what the question said. You say that there is only one item of EUR 350,000 in the department to meet the needs arising from the circular economy, and the truth is that, in the end, there is a item of EUR 350,000 which refers to the circular economy in a direction of the Department of the Environment, which refers to waste management, but you do not take into account at all, from the point of view of what the parties and the economy are, all the important effort that has been made since Ihobe. He recognizes it here in the rostrum, but it doesn't seem to cost money. Well, it does cost, and a lot. And also other actions that from the department are related to the circular economy, and not only in ours, but in other departments of the Basque Government and public agencies, because this is something that permeates the entire work of the government. With regard to the Department of Environment and Ihobe alone, I would say that there are a number of items related very directly to the circular economy, such as the support line for demonstration projects in circular economy (€200,000); studies and regulatory actions in the field of circular economy, waste management (€350,000, which you referred to); meetings and conferences and courses (12,000); circular economy projects that are financed from grants to municipalities, which have a multiannual credit of 1,800,000 in this budget, and also from grants to companies for investments, a multiannual credit, between payment and commitment credits, of 2,126,000 euros; eco-efficiency and green manufacturing, €542,000; ecodesign and Basque Ecodesign Center, 250,000; green public purchase, 130,000; New Innonet Horizon 2020 project, 15,000; Basque Ecodesign Hub, 72,000... Finally, we are talking about more than a specific item of EUR 350,000, to which you have referred. And also, as I said, it is an explicit commitment of the government program, and therefore it is a policy also assumed by all the departments that make up the Basque Government. Well, let's see, I think an increasing effort is being made in Euskadi on the issue of selective collection, recycling and proper treatment of products derived, in that sense, from urban waste to which you refer. And we are gradually growing more and more in terms of the results of those policies that we are implementing. You have used this rostrum at the moment, in the light of this inquiry that you have made to me, to make a direct attack on what is the waste incineration system, a system that you claim is that, once you have carried out the whole process of selective collection, recycling, reuse, etc., the remaining fraction, which cannot be reused, can also be valued through the generation of electricity. That is the goal of the incinerators, as you call them, or the energy recovery plants that call others, which are currently promoting the development of these projects. And you tell me about the circular economy, and you tell me that betting on these kinds of solutions is absolutely against what European regulations and directives and the objectives of the circular economy are. What I can tell you is that the closure, the closure of the entire waste collection system selectively, recycling, reuse, recovery, and in part other disposal with the conversion into electricity, is precisely something that goes directly to the benefit of the circular economy, because it allows everything to be valued, that until the last final residue can be valued with the energy generation. If the concept of circular economy is that garbage circulates, it circulates in trucks on all roads in Euskadi and other communities, even in France, surely we do not share the same concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpodate, María Pilar Wide, together with the lawmen of the Podemus to the head of the Board of Education, an integral planet against the educational Games." The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u89	Hello, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The health World Organization has stated that 15% of the students are suffering from school, in Spain by 23%, and that Mrs. Eukadin's performance has been announced in the past week, in the course of which, even this year, the case has been doubled. In total, 500 charges have been made, of which 122 have been verified, and 23% have been made on the Internet and social networks. We're not in front of a little problem. The experts say that persecution in the schools is more frequent than we think, and we must not forget that in some cases the consequences cannot be reversed. So far, I'm sure it's made a number of pre-school initiatives: Guides and protocols have been designed for action. The Eplegue Department of Police and Society has set up a phone number to help children and teenagers, and in '52 the project has been established. But there are more and more cases, and therefore we ought to consider whether these measures are really effective. The Chief Department said there's more accusations on the citizens because they're more susceptible to school harassment. You're sure of that? The experts say the only strategy that serves in front of the school revolt is prevention, and, as far as this is concerned, to prevent the like violence, what measures are you trying to put in action in the anti-Internal Planegra of Education?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u91	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, is a good day again. The Grand Mistress, of course, is not only the elementary education, but the education of all persons, of men among their purposes, of being fully developed in all their dimensions. It also aims that the students should be able to prepare themselves for entering into a mature life for an individual subject, to develop the harmonious community, and to build a more just and more active member of society. I point out these two ends, because I think they are closely connected with what we are replying to today. It is, as we believe, the best instrument of education to assist in the perfect training of individuals and the improvement of society. The two ends which I have just pointed out take a special significance in the following respects: The development of social, moral, sentimental, and harmonious life. Besides, according to the international agreement of Child Rights, it is a common respect for all the education-makers beyond school to provide and strengthen the fundamental faculties of education, the section which I am directing knows that the influence of education is essential and therefore important to develop them. Cohabitation is part of the general principles of education that have been embodied in the educational-pedagogical model. Article 2 of the Decree establishing the basic education curriculum sets out as a general principle the implications and links of school coexistence and the promotion of educational projects. Therefore, it not only gives continuity to an important line of work developed for a long time in this area, but reinforces this approach with the proposal of the basic cross-cutting competences and their necessary relationship with the basic disciplinary ones. The basic cross-cutting competencies are needed to solve problems effectively in all areas and situations of life, in personal and social situations, in addition to academic or work situations. These situations are closely linked to the attitudes-based content that make up trends, habits or arrangements acquired and relatively durable that are based on knowledge, beliefs, feelings, preferences, values... about a particular object, person or situation. One cannot speak of attitudes without referring to the values on which they are supported and founded. Value implies what is considered appreciable or desirable. The attitude translates into a stable willingness to act in coherence with value. Undoubtedly, in the positive attitudes connected with the basic capacities, and in the manners that accompany them, it is the best indication and the greatest guarantee to know that the students who end their elementary education are prepared and that they are strong. We are speaking of a complex union of perfect education in Persion, which necessarily requires premises given. When our teachers are educated at school, that influences the mutual interaction of the same students, and this influence must necessarily contribute to the positive development of all men. That's why our teachers know that this helps us in the development of existence and life. For this reason, they are at work from the general areas of their education and their curriculum projects, and from others that are more specific and more specific (e.g. To encourage social life, they plan carefully the interventions which encourage them, and they continue their efficiency. The professors' habits of life are indeed a tool to encourage them to reflect on the daily practice of the school, and so that the decisions adopted for their re-establishment are the result of agreement, that they are systematically led to practice, and that their efficiency is continued. Last September, the educational centres were provided with a guide for the development of the centre's cohabitation plan. This guide is aimed at the centres planning, launching and evaluating annual objectives for improving coexistence. The Inspection Service is currently designing a procedure to monitor how cohabitation plans and annual cohabitation improvement actions contribute to the necessary positive cohabitation and prevention of cohabitation problems and, in particular, school harassment. In addition, the Education Inspectorate addresses this issue by addressing in the centres issues such as enhancing and promoting the development by the centres of the coexistence plan, which should highlight the procedures leading to the peaceful resolution of conflicts, reconciliation and reparation, as well as guidelines for the assumption of educational commitments for coexistence. On the other hand, activate the tutorial action plan as a continuous and systematic aid process, inserted in the educational activity, and the promotion of organizational measures that enable the involvement of all teachers in the tutorial work. And, to the extent that the centres have to update their ROF (regulation of internal regime), it is necessary to focus on the participation of the different sectors of the educational community. The ROF should include the regulations of the centre and the regulation of the ways in which the exercise of the rights of the student is guaranteed, as well as the fulfilment of the duties. On the other hand, we have a decree on the rights and duties of pupils, the aim of which is to regulate the framework of coexistence. The aim is to promote coexistence in accordance with plans that educational institutions include in their educational projects to prevent and act in the face of unwanted situations. This educational approach is fundamental to the banishment of behaviours that disrupt coexistence, and especially harassment among equals. School harassment is not an isolated and timely problem, but has deep structural roots, so solutions require the efforts of the entire school community. This department is promoting the development of centre-based educational projects aimed at the creation of a culture of peace, the preventive socialization of gender-based violence, practices based on respect for the diversity of cultural or gender identities and sexual orientation, equal opportunities for men and women, the development of strategies for the peaceful resolution of conflicts in the educational community, etc. In this context, the governing bodies of the educational institutions, teachers and other staff, are collaborating in the eradication of ill-treatment among equals, following established procedures, informing the director, for their transfer to the Education Administration, of any evidence in this field. Students are engaged against all sorts of violence, and all the means they have at hand are set on the way to prevent violent actions, to encourage positive factors or prevent the prevention of prevention, and to destroy the factors which disturb a proper community of life. When there is a revolt, or when there are signs of it, they first intervene, which harm victims, but also the examples of restoring the ruined relations which harm the assailants and spectators. Yes, educational inspection and innovations are in these cases co-worked with the students, and the intervention of all the agents in the community of the educational community (consequently the explanation of the millions) is being essential in order to improve it. As a result of the involvement of the inspection in this process, it is necessary to stress that in the activities of their annual plans the tasks of ensuring the exercise of the rights and duties of the educational community, in particular with regard to the right of pupils to respect for their physical and emotional integrity, and to receive comprehensive education in a climate of positive coexistence, are important. During the development of their plans, the inspection is monitoring cases of school harassment or any other manifestation of behaviour contrary to coexistence, and, in general, monitoring of the management of coexistence in the centres, as indicated in the above-mentioned guide of action and in the protocol included therein. In any case, the guide, as an instrument of action, together with the work and intervention of the Education Inspectorate in this field, is being a key element in view of the maximum zero tolerance to school harassment that must govern in all educational institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is therefore necessary to continue to convey this message clearly in the face of any aggressive behaviour manifested in the group of equals, and to incorporate the improvement of coexistence and rejection of any form of ill-treatment as a priority objective of any educational institution. The agreement signed with the Department of Security is also proposed as a complementary measure, with the aim of promoting preventive measures in schools regarding bullying, including cyberbullying, and attitudes contrary to school coexistence. In short, it is educational institutions that must commit themselves to all kinds of violence, put in place the means at their disposal to prevent violent acts, support and promote the presence of positive or preventive factors, and reduce those that alter the proper coexistence. And all this with the means and initiatives that the Department of Education makes available to it. I would therefore like to make it clear, in the light of the subject before us today, that the work that we have begun in the last parliamentary term and which I have briefly taken into account in my speech will continue to be carried out and strengthened, as it cannot be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u93	It's disturbing. But, on the other hand, we're glad that in two years after Eukadin, the school investigation case has to be doubled in order to decide that the Board of Education will end by establishing an integral plan against the educational election. The research shows that the reality is more frequent than it was anticipated in the M.M.s, and they often criticize the problem because it's done with the active mentality, i.e. they do protocols, but they only seem to study the problem, and often they're late. The experts say that when a case is revealed it is too late, if the consequences are in progress, and in many cases they are for the rest of their lives. Together we believe that the steps which have been taken up so far have been positive, because everything that is done helps. But we believe that to act when we find a supposed victim, is not sufficient to oppose the educational revolt. We believe that the political policies against the schools are to be developed, the preventive policy. The only strategy that serves in front of the school elections is prevention. The Prevention beginning with children, and because in these stages the relations between the same ones begin to work, and to learn respect for multiplicity. The purpose must be made clear, that we must educate students with a clear idea, that difference makes us rich, and that it is not a problem. The end of these policys of prevention must be to educate the students in values and moral principles, to face this individualist society, that everything which is different to destroy the person is useful to resist the social view which sells it. In classrooms friendship, friendship, empathy, equality, and such values must be cultivated, every kind of violence must be abolished from the classrooms, and the students must, from the first years, refuse violence. That's essential. We don't want to question the effective efficiency of education's direct plans, but reality says that the case of the school has doubled, so here's something that doesn't work very well. We must remark that the leading men of the school hall are not only victims and pursuers. For the observers, the groups, the class, the professors, the family, the proceedings, and so forth, are also the leading. Besides, the prevention means measuring it; it means meeting the problem in person, asking the students and taking care of the question of the school and not waiting for the case to happen. It's very important that you always remember something. I mean, if we don't stop the school chase, many girls and boys in the future, when they're grown up, they'll be weaker, and they'll be in danger of a lot of ways of harassing. If no doubt the effects of the course of education are not treated, they will be affected even in adult age. On the other hand, from the 121 cases checked, they have been completed in 23% digital range. So we must also consider the cyberde. In these cases, the house is not a shelter, not even weekends or vacations. The virtual pursuit is 24:7, that is, 24 hours a day for seven days a week; there is no escape from persecution. Finally, we're talking about the Kiva program. It's a program with good results, apparently. But why is it established only in the schools? What about the public school? Shall we also turn the methods opposed to the educational pursuit into a separator element? I'm glad you decided to start an integral plan against school-birth, and that's what we're doing. We hope to be really integrated, to take all the complicated aspects into us, and especially take them seriously. First of all, it's not in 2017 budgets that you've seen...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Your time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u95	On the consequences of the evaluation of the protocol for the persecutions of the school on which this Euscal Autonomy begins in the Renaissance, though the utility of this protocol be accepted, it is likewise evident that we must go on and rely on the ends, which, when we suspect or perceive these cases, proceed beyond the specific treatment that proceeds from it, and are founded on them. It is necessary to encourage preventive and diagnosis in order to reduce the situations which may lead to the schools' persecution cases as much as possible. For this purpose we consider it necessary to make a plan against the persecutions of the school. This plan must also be effected by co-operation and sharing in the community of education. This plan is based on a series of sesistemic and integrated interventions against cases of persecution that could be found in our colleges and that they could see. Besides, he'll be guided in college to improve positive community and push prosociative skills into students. Work with students will be enhanced to develop socio-emotional skills, involving all participants in the educational process (teacher, families and non-teaching staff). The development of this plan within the framework of the educational centre must have a cross-cutting and interdisciplinary character, although centralizing it around a tutorial, individual and group action plan, in connection with the centre's coexistence plan, whose primary purpose will be to equip the student with the tools necessary to learn to live together. The plan against school harassment includes different measures and procedures, in addition to specific teaching materials to work on positive coexistence and to facilitate the detection of risk indicators in the field of school harassment. Organizational measures will be structured to provide expert advice to the centres, as well as follow-up to the measures they take, in order to collaborate with them in assessing the effectiveness of the actions being carried out. Procedures will be promoted to facilitate the involvement of pupils in conflict management, such as enhancing group and individual mentoring as a privileged space for working socio-emotional skills and living standards; promoting the involvement of pupils in conflict management; working systematically, and through problem situations, pro-social skills in group mentoring; forming commissions of pupils trained in conflict detection and collaboration in their resolution to improve living standards; creating prepared and trained organizational structures to ensure the effective management of harassment cases in the school; involving all sectors of the educational community to participate in structures and measures to improve the living standards of the centre; systematically training the entire educational community in school and cyberaccusive harassment; developing affordable ways for children and girls to be able to communicate the incidences of bullying and cyberaccusing; awareness-raising campaigns; collaboration agreements with services, agencies and entities that can contribute to the improvement of situations of diagnosis or reconciliation in situations where there is a need to prevent and overcome cases of abuse. We're going to develop a strategic planning to start them. This will be collected in the time of three apprenticeships with deliberate attention directed to all public schools. This attention will be based on the course of the school's condition, and the special adviser to the diagnosis of necessity, the process of preparation, and, from this diagnosis, the planning and development of the measures proper. He will also consider the continuation of the measures taken to attend to the evaluation of their efficiency in co-operation with the schools. Finally, it must be added that this plan is integrated, connected, and complete with all the programs and actions which the Board of Education encourages, with those I have mentioned. Their aim will be to achieve as great a degree of development as possible with the elementary capacities of the students, to believe that the preparation of our pupils is integrated, and also that the ability to live together in this sphere is essential, and we hope to be the explanation of society in general. And, in relation to KiVa, it is legitimate and commendable that the centers seek the most appropriate solutions in their context and trajectory. In our case, we have a whole trajectory, a whole series of plans, and we are going to draw up a comprehensive plan that welcomes all the above, plus all the new measures that I have just commented on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja, a member of the Popula team, an editor of the Education Department of Education, an open campaign in the Basque Country University." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, let's keep talking about harassment, in this case in college. Madam Counsellor, the Ireki campaign at the University of the Basque Country has begun, to promote the regrouping of ETA prisoners and prisoners. Now too, now. In March, at the beginning of March. This campaign is built on the traditional postulates of the abertzale left. It seeks that university workers and students also identify with this initiative in favour of ETA prisoners, and try to collect personal, professional and labour data from the signing persons. Which means the non-signatories too, that's the big deal. As the organizers' communication says, "During the month of March we will collect signatures from the university community. If you want to show your commitment to the initiative, send a message to an address, your name, your name, your sector (PAS, PDI, student...) and center." That is, perfectly identified the people who sign and, by exclusion, those who do not. In the light of this campaign to identify workers in favour of ETA prisoners, we ask that the counselor answer us how she appreciates this initiative promoted by Ireki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u99	The lady's head. Taking advantage of this question from Mr Barrio, and given that these are actions in the university field, I would like to take this opportunity to convey my deepest condemnation of the attacks being suffered by UPV/EHU. This afternoon a new concentration of revulsion took place, hours after this Parliament agreed to a unanimous declaration. I stress once again, on behalf of the Basque Government, our support and solidarity with the university community, and absolute collaboration with the UPV/EHU government team. I want to publicly transfer my full professional and personal support to Rector Nekane Balluerka from here. It is absolutely unacceptable that we continue to suffer from these attacks. We cannot allow fear to settle between workers, teachers and students. We can't tolerate it. We can by no means accept such an action in our society. Workers, students, teachers can't go to school for fear. What's happening is unacceptable, they're working on values that are far from those in college actions. Our society doesn't deserve that. The university community works for and for knowledge; its strength lies in contrasting ideas, debate and reflection. Force and intimidation lack space in Basque society in general, and in the university world in particular. Following the conviction ceremony on Wednesday on the Bizkaia campus, I expressed my hope that similar events would not occur again, and while making those statements, the Álava campus suffered a new attack. And hours later, just yesterday, a new assault. That's it! Mr. Barrio, in regard to the question which I have been able to make about the campaign, I must answer that this campaign, apparently, has started from an enterprise composed of 31 anonymous friends of the Basque Autonomy Erria. That team created a format of help on October 15, 2016. This group announced its initiative in public last year, as I have been able to verify through the hemerots of the media and certain digital platforms. So we're talking about an initiative that has nothing to do with the Basque Country University.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u101	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. Well, I don't know if they'll be anonymous people, which is already serious, if they're anonymous. I don't know. What there is, Madam Counsellor, is an orchestrated campaign against the university, in different areas and with different expressions, and its priority and the priority of your Government is to protect workers and students of the University of the Basque Country from harassment campaigns, violence, but also those protected by such violence or radicalism and obsession. It is very serious this coincidence of attacks against the UPV, harassment of workers and threats and announcements of strike, with certain expressions that we can all foresee. Everything planned also for this month of March, in what is an authentic orchestrated campaign: the violence on the one hand, which we have seen, to give prominence to harassment of the university, its workers, society in general through the university; the signatures of some collectives to intimidate and to pressure the workers (some will sign, but it is to intimidate those who do not sign, or to force some to sign), and the strike next week, logically, in that campaign this month, to pressure the students (because that will be the disguise of the strike, continue to pressure the students, but also the workers). And in that regard, Madam Counsellor, something will have to be done by your Government. All right, we have all done in this Parliament yesterday's condemnation, and you too are currently condemning it, but something your government will have to do to protect (the Department of Security, the lehendakari, yourself)..., measures to protect the workers and students of the university, those workers who feel today – who have transferred it to us – coerced by the campaign, because they are not going to sign, but they are going to be part of that active file that so well know how to handle the violent. Thank you very much. And do something, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u103	Mr. Barrio, as I said before, this department has no particular information about this group and the purposes it seeks. According to the public information we know about this group, they seek to bring the prisoners closer. To this end they seek protection and assistance from the workmen of different districts, and in this case they seek attachment among the workers of UUPV/EHU. The section I am conducting has been able to verify that the LAB union sent a message to the distribution list of UUPV/EHU employees to request protection for the initiative through its email account. So that initiative is an action of a union that has nothing to do with the traditional management of the university. The initiative begins from an out-of-the-country platform, and is directed by a syndicate central (the LAB union). On the other hand, the attachment to this platform is voluntary. It's not as you say, but, well, it's not in my hands. I repeat what I said a moment ago: to the Basque Government what is really worrying is to respond to the incidents that are taking place in the UPV. It's our priority. We cannot allow facts like these to occur and to acquire a dye of certain normality. We cannot and should not accept this, and we are working closely with the UPV. Personal and non-violent claims are one thing, and aggression and intimidation are something else quite different.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Urano Serano, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, concerning the nullity of the settlements in the Urduli Hospital." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u105	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuak, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. The Basque Government has committed several illegalities, its own rules in the bidding process for private companies for various services in the new hospital in Urdulliz have been breached. The administrative body for contractual remedies of the Basque Government has cancelled two tenders worth EUR 10 million in the resolution of 20 February and in the resolution of 2 March of this year. He has ignored his own agreements, his own laws. On the one hand, the last Osakidetza employment agreement signed in 2008, article 13 of which clearly states that Osakidetza undertakes not to outsource or privatize new areas or services. This agreement has been published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country (Decree 106/2008). Mr. Counsellor, in addition to filing a contentious-administrative appeal to such cancellations, what do you intend to do to make most of the services in the new hospital in Urdulitz work for this summer? Does the advisor have a plan B that generates public employment?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u106	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u107	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon to all. You ask me what else we'll do. The answer is clear: In order to defend the model of management which we have developed during the last decades of the shell, and to set up all services in the New Hospital in Urduliz, we will continue to do everything that is in our power. Mr. Uria, the government doesn't commit illegalities. Keep this in mind, because I will repeat it to you throughout the legislature. You are talking to me about an agreement of the year 2008 which subsequently has a correction at the General Bureau of the year 2010, where it puts a very important term: "Preferably with own resources". Pre-fe-ren-te-men-te, Mr. Uria. I would like to stress that the management model of Osakidetza, our public health service, has not changed. Some unions (not even everyone, as you said fifteen days ago; I will repeat it again: not even all unions) intend to question the management model depending on whether the kitchen or laundry is outsourced to specialized companies, but, as I said, the management model of Osakidetza has not changed. It enjoys the acceptance of Basque society, and is the most suitable to guarantee quality, efficiency and sustainability. In short, we guarantee our Basque public health system, a model based on public management that is complemented by external provision of some non-care services; services that are outsourced in all the regional hospitals of Osakidetza. I'll give you an example. Of the eight service organizations that Osakidetza has in Bizkaia, of the eight, seven have outsourced the laundry. In the specific case of OSI Uribe, which integrates the new hospital in Urduliz, cleaning and laundry were already being hired externally. Where does your lordship appreciate the change of model? In our view, there is no change of model, nor is there any externalisation of new activities and services. And, of course, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u109	Counselor, I don't even say anything about illegalities. This is said by the administrative body of contractual remedies, which has passed us to Elkarrekin Podemos on the left. You are very skilled at explaining what externalizations are and what the management model is. More than four hospitals currently operating in Osakidetza do not have them outsourced. They also had agreements to do a central laundry, which they have not even covered. The problem is who is discrediting here Osakidetza and who is raising problems for the organization: those who skip their own rules; those who discredit their own agreements; those who discredit their own negotiation processes, which are complex to carry out; who decapitalizes the Basque Health Service trying to deliver more than 11 million euros to the private sector; who, claiming a supposed cost reduction, playing to be an efficient manager, does not create public employment, apart from the four hundred places that are going to be created in Urduliz, because the hospital is not going to work empty. The Basque public administration must set an example in creating jobs, it must be the driving force behind creating jobs, quality jobs and not favouring precarious employment. The private sector is no more efficient, there is nothing to prove it. It has no more quality than the public sector. There are no contrasting international assessments that confirm this. The so-called PPPs (public-private partnerships) are being questioned throughout Europe. Let us evaluate the operation of the outsourcings carried out so far in Osakidetza with the same quality indicators with which we evaluate the services provided by Osakidetza, and then compare them, and then talk. We have time, Mr. Counsellor, to talk about these assessments. There are no shortcuts to improve management. There are moles and illegalities. People have to be asked more. If we don't do politics, in the health sector and in the Basque public administration, consensusing most of the management of our funds, we are making the verticalist and the most impressive hunch. We'll see what's going on in Urduliz this summer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u110	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u111	Mr. Uria, it's normal for you to be passed on to the left, the OARC and into anything else. If you are dedicated to discrediting the workers of the companies that serve Osakidetza, you are dedicated to discrediting the workers of outsourced kitchens, cleaners or laundries, so it will pass to you on the left up to Mickey Mouse. [[Barres]] The Basque Government is working to provide a health service of the best quality at the new hospital in Urduliz, and will do everything in its power. We believe in the management model that Osakidetza has been applying in all the regional hospitals: Zumarraga, Mendaro, Bidasoa, Arrasate, San Eloy de Barakaldo, all those are exactly as we have proposed for the hospital of Urduliz, for many years. Osakidetza has the responsibility and duty to organize services in the most effective and efficient way to ensure quality and sustainability. Osakidetza has always focused its efforts and resources on its main activity, health, without demeriting the rest. An approach, on the other hand, which is not exclusive to Osakidetza. It is, today, the most widespread orientation not in public-private organisations: in all organisations. And I don't mean just the ones run by this government. Ask at the City Hall of Madrid how they have cleaning, or in Barcelona. Or you can even ask the trade unions themselves who signed the 2008 non-externalization agreements they are now appealing to, and who, paradoxically, clean up their trade union seats with external cleaning companies. Employment is not created only in the public sector. It is not created only in the public sector. I'd just miss it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Basque Group to the head physician of the Medical Department, the delay of execution of the AUO works." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature. Well, Mr. Counsellor, from Urduliz hospital to HUA, but we have to say that in this case the Alaves – and the whole of the Basque citizens, because in the end it is an infrastructure of improvement not only of the health in Álava, but in the whole of Euskadi – we do not have so much luck, because they were practically two works that started at the same time, and the work of HUA still has much to do and the commitments and the deadlines envisaged in the plans are not being fulfilled; in the functional plan, which you modified (I don't know if that had to do with the delay of the execution of the works in this infrastructure), or the master plan itself. It has drawn our attention, and I have already made it clear in the committee, that a smaller amount has been budgeted this year. He's going to tell me that what they're planning to do this year probably doesn't take them that much investment, but it's less than last year. Last year was 12.5 million euros, and this year 7. But what has also drawn our attention is that last year you had a commitment credit of 16 million in this legislature, and that commitment credit that you had in the rest of the infrastructure has not only been respected, but has even increased. Therefore, we want to ask you again, as we have already done, because this is a recurring topic, counselor... We already asked him in July whether he did not consider the infrastructure of HUA as a priority, or not as a priority as others, such as that of the Urduliz hospital. We ask him again about the same thing: if he continues to consider investment in the university hospital in Álava as a non-priority.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u114	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u115	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Garrido anderea, I am fully aware of his interest in health investments, it seems that exclusively in Álava, but believe me, he does not have his lordship more interest than the government itself. And it's not because I say it's because it's all done up to now. It's just that such an important infrastructure isn't built in two days or even in two months, or even in two years, Mrs Garrido. Since the beginning of the previous legislature, year after year we have been making investments and improving the health system in Álava, despite the fact that some of us weigh, and we will continue to do so throughout this legislature: investments in primary care, in the mental health network and in HUA, to provide Álava with the public health of the present and future that the Alaves and Alavesa deserve. In Álava, as you know well, in the past legislature invested 26.1 million euros, the majority in the remodeling and expansion of the HUA, and soon, in April, we will begin the demolition works of a part of Txagorritxu, to proceed then to the construction of the new building of general assistance services. An investment that will come close to 54 million euros. The Basque Government and the Department of Health are very aware of the Alaves and Alaves, and are working to provide them with the best quality public health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u116	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u117	Well, counselor, what happens is that, at the pace of the works, I certainly don't know if you're going to be lucky enough to inaugurate the works of the University Hospital in Álava. He was lucky enough to inaugurate the external consultation building, but, of course, it must also be said that the external consultation building, the bulk of the investment, was made in the previous legislature. And we also wanted to remind you that we are proposing to increase the investment initially envisaged in the pact with the Socialist Party, in a substantial way, in addition to a specific increase of EUR 9 million, which made it possible to accelerate that investment. We will do the same in these budgets. I believe that this time you will look more closely at the amendment that we are putting before you regarding increasing investment in the university hospital in Álava. Because I also have to tell you that in all the budget exercises, and as we consider this to be a priority work, as was the hospital of Urduliz, which is very well, as is Biocruces, as is the hospital of Eibar, where certainly the commitment credits provided in the budget of 2016 are respected... As I say, in all the years we have tabled the amendment to increase investment in HUA, because you were telling us that you would already like to have more money in order to speed up that investment. Man, what does attract attention is that, with the 7.5 million budgeted and the thirty months in which you told us you intend to build the new service building at Txagorritxu headquarters, when the total amount of this budget is 54, and with the demolition of 55 million euros, I don't know how you will do it. Of course, it is noted that you continue to slow down, and certainly not to execute, the rhythms of the works in the strategic essential infrastructure, not only for the health in Álava but for the whole of the health in the Basque Country, as is the university hospital in Álava. Mr. Counsellor, how are you going to run 55 million in 30 months, if this year you have budgeted 7? Of course, then don't tell me you're getting a scanner and then you have to get the money out of HUA. I imagine that for those issues you, with that great budget in health (of which we are happy), will be able to draw a line to fix the damaged scanner.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u118	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u119	Mrs Garrido, in any case, there are precise and objective data. That's where all the investments, improvements, and all the works that have been made to improve Arabe's health system for the past few years. Look, if you're a user of Alavesa's health, I suppose, of the public, you'll see that there are many improvements made in recent years, and in sight they are. That's how the Alavese and Alaves appreciate it. Look, at Txagorritxu's headquarters, the medical day hospital, the oncohematology day hospital, the cardiac rehabilitation, the rehabilitation of hospitalized patients and the blood bank are new, and the oncology and emergency services have been adapted, in addition to the endowment and opening of the new laboratories and of that building that is said to have been built with the support of you, that of external consultations, but that did not come to open. I'm going to try to open what I've budgeted for this legislature, Mrs. Garrido. At the headquarters of Santiago the ophthalmological center, the surgical day hospital, rehabilitation, neurology and neurophysiology services, the new sleep unit that you have today in the newspaper and the units of pluripathological patients and palliative care, and we are currently completing the works of the rehabilitation pool, which will end before Holy Week. And, as I told you, the construction of the new general service building of HUA is already under way, after giving an alternative to the parking lot and the helipad together with the City Council of Vitoria and its mayor, Mrs. Garrido, whom from here I thank for your willingness, collaboration and commitment to the city's sanitary facilities. A new building of 25,800 square meters to house the new general and pediatric emergencies, intensive care unit, obstetric block and surgical block, with nineteen new operating rooms. The HUA, Mrs. Garrido, is a tangible reality in Alava, more than external consultations. During these years, a great deal of work has been done to improve the medical system of the U.A., and though it is still a long journey, we are on our way to build a hospital which all Arabs need and deserve. In this law the hospital will become reality. Eskerrik asko. Mrs Garrido, your amendment will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpolection, made by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to the Chief of Work and Justice, to abolish the standard of opposition based on the fraud of public employment." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u121	Mme. head of the table, good morning to all. Mrs. San José, good morning. We found out from the media that your department, the Department of Job and Justice, will investigate, in the two years to come, partial employments in private territory contracts, to find frauds. But we've found out that non-communciation came out... and he went out a week or so ago that you'll open a telephone number for that, and you'll also have a e-mail. In fact, this last remark has caused a confusion, because we have doubts now that we had no doubt before, but now we have hesitated whether what you are going to do will be a real investigation, what the department itself will do, or the work of the department which the citizens are going to do. I don't know if you can explain that doubt to us later on. At first, at least, the department seems to want to expose the preparation, and to applaud. We say it's because we don't know what's going to happen at the end of the investigation in your department, because the phone and the e-mail are finally coming to redeem what's been done until now. And as yet, if the people, the hucharists, have a chance if they see any fraud, if they see any difficulty, if they see that their rights are corrupted, there are ways by vision, by Osalanes, to explain them all. So we don't exactly know what your department is talking about. For if that were the last, he would at last cheat, and he who would cheat the people would be your department. But, well, you can explain it to us. But if it is really the other, if your department, the Department of Work and Justice, is willing to investigate the contracts based on the fraud of the Precinct, it really seems to us to applaud. It seems to us that the understanding is positive and laudable. But what we want to know is whether the government, in the region of the patrician and master, will take up its initiative in public administration, whether the same conduct of the private area is also ready to be the same in public, and to change the standard of opposition which is based on fraud in the public area. And it is not because we say that there is also a sentence from Europe, and it has now confirmed here what is going on in public administration, in public and public administration, in the contract, and it has drawn this government out of its ears. What we'd like to know is, whether you've taken this initiative in private, in public, too, because we've seen what's happened in public administration in recent years, especially in Osapartics, and education is there too. We have seen that partial performances have been greatly increased, and we have seen that contracts not connected to a job are made, and that these contracts are accumulated by labor contracts, and Mr. Darpón knows a great deal about it. We've seen that he's gone deep in provisionalness, and I'll give you some facts. For example, we demand data every month, and it is clear that nomins and men do not recognize it; we have more nostalgia for a month than people. We could easily find a machine with nine or more contracts in a month. If we see the data for memberships, partial jobs have been doubled and full-actions have been reduced to 12%. We can then find contracts for the manufacturing, the chance contracts of the Cangurus, the subcontradiction and the condition under which it is offered, and there is nothing more to see from the public administration to the private domain what contracts, what conditions of work are offered, because in the end the public administration, with criteria imposed on the economic and technical offer, is fostered by public administration. If we go to EIB, then EIB is 25%. As an example, in Bilbo's residence, 2015, the Ebventals performed 19.411 jobs. and I can go on for a long time, for instance, from these inventions, 67% worked with five days or less duration, or we always find such data in public administration. So we can see that when you're home, inside your house, you have homework, you've got business to do, if you're political, you're gonna encourage and ensure you're gonna have a decent job. So, Mrs. San José, what we want to know is what initiative the government will take, your department, to erase the model of contracts based on public employment fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs Ubera, for your positive consideration of the department's decision to carry out a specific campaign from the Labour Inspectorate so that in two years we will be able to review the bulk of part-time employment in Euskadi. To tackle labour fraud is a commitment not only of the Basque Government, but of all social actors, trade union and employers' organizations, and to do so exemplaryly, through the mechanisms at our disposal, is a task that we must face for the benefit of society as a whole. As she said in response to another parliamentary colleague, when someone is defrauding the administration, they are injuring the general interests. We lose all of them: those directly affected, because their rights are undermined, and the citizens as a whole, because the Administration will not be able to return as public services what it stops collecting through taxes. With all due respect, Mrs Ubera, let me tell you that your initiative mixes two subjects that cannot be identified as similar. You add to our campaign another one that must address what it calls fraud in public employment recruitment. I would like to dwell on this point in order to clarify some issues in this regard. I admit that in recent years there has been a rise in temporary recruitment in the public sector, and I also admit that the length of time has been longer than desirable, but I have to tell you that this situation does not like the Basque Government, which in no case is due to a predetermined way of acting. Be assured, Mrs Ubera, that it is not a strategy of the Basque Government to – at the same time – "save money", let alone to harm the rights of workers entering public employment. Do not have the slightest doubt that we are betting on stable and quality employment. Your Honour, you are well aware that in recent years the replenishment rates in public employment have limited the possibilities of making public employment offers, which are the most effective tools for operating a clear reduction in temporality and interinity. We agree that it is necessary to adopt agreements at the General Civil Service Bureau and at sectoral level to approve and convene as soon as possible more public employment offers, which complement those that, as you know, are already in progress. We want it to be the general administration as a whole, and all the public bodies and societies that depend on it, who can count on this effective tool of job creation and overcoming current precariousness. When you reproach the Basque Government for this, it is obvious that neither the replacement rates nor the determination of public employment offers can be achieved without taking into account the limits set by the Government of Spain through the General Budgets. They are fully aware of the discussions and discussions that result from this, and also that the attitude of this Government is not exactly passive. In addition to the elimination of the replacement rate, trade union organizations are currently requesting an exceptional public employment offer, which is estimated to cover 360,000 public sector posts by temporary or temporary workers or by temporary workers, or by job vacancies, at the State level. As you can see, this is a reality that does not affect our community exclusively, and a reality that will be overcome through the call for public offers of employment. You refer in the justification of this inquiry to the situation generated both in Osakidetza and in Education and in other entities. The temporary situation in these two groups, as you well know, is due to the special characteristics of the jobs in them. In both cases there is clear evidence that measures are being taken to overcome it. It is a commitment of the Government as a whole. In the case of the Department of Education, you know perfectly well that two days ago the deadline has expired for submitting applications to a public job offer for 740 places for primary and child education levels. Osakidetza is finalizing the 2015 OPE process, and this same year another one will be convened that, in addition to the 2016 and 2017 offers, can reach 2,400 places of different categories. But, so that you are aware of the commitment in which we are immersed the leaders of the Basque Government, allow me to transfer a personal consideration to you. At the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of the Administration of Justice, which I attended on 22 February in Madrid, I asked to accumulate the public offer of employment in 2016, with 106 places, that of 2017, still to determine the places to be offered. As you can easily deduce, my aim is no other than, through this process, to consolidate public employment and to reduce as much as possible interinity. You also refer to the claims and claims being processed, seeking similar compensation for workers who are dismissed after having had a temporary contract for which they had an indefinite contract. These claims are indeed supported by a judgment of the European Court of Justice. And here, Mrs. Ubera, you mix things up again of different condition. It has nothing to do with the equalization of the compensation to which a person is entitled according to the nature of the contract he signed, with the fact that the contract was temporary according to the service requirements to be met. Frankly, I am sure that in order to solve the problem that you pose we have sufficient means and tools in the field of our administration. We agree that we have a problem, that of temporality and interinity in public employment. On the part of the Basque Government we will make every effort to offer a solution through public offers of employment, and we have a negotiating framework, which is the General Bureau of Administration and Sectoral Affairs, to channel that and other possible solutions. In conclusion, I must say, Your Honor, that the situation that you and I have described is far from what we intend to address with the campaign that we have promoted since the Labour Inspectorate. Our aim is to address the problem throughout the system, but we will pay particular attention to situations that we consider to be most vulnerable. We are talking about people who, of necessity, are obliged to sign a contract under certain conditions and to work with others, about groups that have no or insufficient trade union support, about situations where there is no collective bargaining framework. We want to prioritize actions in the sectors most likely to commit irregularities. In short, we want to determine, as precisely as possible, whether the actual working day corresponds to the working day set out in the employment contract. And you are well aware that this hypothetical contractually agreed day fraud does not occur in the public sphere, which has both its own control systems and those carried out by trade unions, making unspeakable fraudulent practices. This does not mean in any way that we will not act in all cases where the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u125	Mrs. San José, you told me to do it exemplaryly. I share your words, but then I see no exemplary attitude. And here, public administration must be an example. What the public administration couldn't be in the house of wolves and streets has been doves. And it is not a question of campaigning, it is a question of politics, of attitude, much deeper, because we are talking about a very serious issue. And what credibility can the Government have in its Contractions, if it promotes a Precinct and a fraud in the area where it itself is patrogical? Because you're telling me that you want to influence the weakest fields. But do you know what you've done? What you've done is a strong area, a regular one, a negotiation, a collective negotiation, what you've been doing is always irregular; no negotiations, no tables, no conversation, no consent. There's nothing. You have then become the public administration, the public system, a system of weakness, and become a very presbytery area in the system of which you are concerned. So it's very good to meet the policies facing the private area, but first, you'll have to start from home. And then it's very curious that you're looking for excuses. When we're always talking about public administration, public system, public employment, always balls out... or that is to be done in the general table, where the tables of the sectors are to be made. Reposition rate. We have the rate of relocation and we haven't been able to do anything, but now we're going to make public work offers. I'm sorry. You'll pardon me, but, you see, apart from the public offer of work, the contracts of this administration, which have nothing to do with it, and which have no interference, without being included, the rate of reposition, or the public offer, what has he done? The whole act has turned them into a partial act. What did he do? Don't preliterate these partial performances, a job, a code square. Why? The job wasn't that kind of job, etc., that kind of job that had to do other jobs. And who pays? There are the weakest sectors of the society. Women. And if we go and see where those pretorships are: operaries, nurses' assistants, cooks, washing machines, even the employees of the public administration. So here we're rather tired of hearing that it's the fault of repositions, that it's either going to be settled or in the general table, but I'm sorry, General, you're the caretakers, you're the manager of the various tables, and you know what the manager of the General's office says? That he keeps out the commissions of the legislature. Sometimes you've got your face on your face, and what you're doing is all the public system disorganized, predicate, and that's what you've been doing for years. And we think we have to put aside the excuses. And I repeat, you have taken a very useful initiative, a laudable one, but even in your patronic or headquarters, you must take action, or else you have no credibility. Because right now, in the public area, there's just as big a prelude as in private. And what should you do? Well, like you said, "Hacerlo jemlarmente..." Less bella, less Marchin, and do politics. And to guide these policies, you can at least take certain measures to reduce temporaryness, to eliminate preacquisitors of contract, to discard the commercial contracts, to discard the kangaroo contract, to be attached to the plascis with which the contracts are attached to their jobs, to promote the contract of the whole business, and to reduce partial contracts... I mean, do the opposite of what you've done for the past few years. You can do it when you drive out the services and introduce social clauses, and you can guide the policy of association and the policies for distribution of work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera... Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u127	Well, I wanted to deal with the issue that I have raised since rationality, Mrs Ubera, by making things clear and not by running away from the problem of the temporality that we have, by ensuring that we want to move forward, and we will do so from the Basque Government with the public offers of employment that are determined, and by negotiating where we need to negotiate with trade union organisations, at the negotiating tables. What I would like is to make clear the meaning of our campaign, and to understand its objectives and scope. Firstly, as in any campaign, priority is given to the actions to be undertaken, which will aim to achieve better results where more problems are identified. And, indeed, while recognizing temporality as a problem in the public sector, you will agree with me that there are more problems to tackle in the private business sphere. Problems that are of a different nature. I insist, Mrs Ubera, we want to address the problem in the most vulnerable sectors and groups, where workers are most unprotected, where there are no representatives who can defend their rights, and where there are few elements of participation and negotiation. I invite you, Mrs Ubera, to ask the Basque workers where they consider that there is greater instability and where they can concentrate the problems we raise today, whether in the public sector or in certain private sectors. Where they consider themselves more unprotected. Where they believe management action is a priority. I am sure that most share the concern and initiative we have taken in the Department of Labour and Justice. The Labour Inspectorate cannot and should not close its eyes in any sector, and we will not let it do so. And it will act in all cases that are reported and that affect the public, except in cases of appointments of interim staff, on which it knows that it has no competence. However, I would like to stress to you the will of this Government to solve the problems raised by the public personnel working in the administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We are aware of the need to reduce the temporality, to consolidate the posts of temporary staff. We are also committed to eliminating the gender inequalities that are identified, and as a global measure we are going to make a determined commitment to modernizing the Administration, adapting jobs to the new technologies and demands of e-government. I also remind you that for this legislature, the legislative calendar includes the Basque Public Employment Bill, in addition to the Public Sector Organization and Operation Bill, great opportunities to make laws appropriate to the needs of the moment. Laws that must become effective tools to guarantee public services to citizens. The ultimate objective of these legislative initiatives is for workers who provide public services to do so in the best possible conditions, to improve the quality of these services and in this way to increase the positive perception of our Administration towards the citizens. Let us make this possible among all, and in the meantime, do not hesitate, we will act from the Department of Labour and Justice in the face of the reported violations, because we act according to what the law dictates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-17.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-two.
