ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. Please, take your seats. First point in theme list: "To discuss the New Year's Standard Exhibition of the New Year's Day and the Eucialists and the Palaiscan Society of the Basques, the legal proposition made by the parliamentary teams of Memorials, the Home of Memory, Counciation, and Human Rights To Change the 4/2014 Law of November. " Equimenia has been raised by a hasty process of procedure in front of the whole Union, according to the table set at the 7th of February 2017, and by a single reading process, according to the assembly of the sheriffs on February 9th, 2017. Your papers are distributed, so let's begin our discussion. Here, there are shifts between side and side. On the side shift, who wants to participate? One, yes. Side shift? No. So, in favor, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. It is a modification of the punctual law, for an objective approach of presence in extraparliamentary areas but that decide public policies, that decide budgetary areas, that can decide other aspects such as grants or plans that are linked to public budgets, so, in this sense, it is a rather technical question, a punctual, technical, objective amendment of a law. It would be a convenient procedure too – and this is a reflection to which the amendment of this law leads –..., a procedure that could be convenient in other bodies, in other institutes, in other foundations or institutions where there is also, in a way in many more limited places, a presence of parliamentary representatives. It will be an interesting starting point to promote a debate on parliamentary representation in other institutions, in other bodies, and of course, as it could not otherwise be, this is a technical change, and of a permanent nature, and therefore we have seen... We have been drawn to the attention of the Government's view: it has been a favourable view, but the Government is somewhat suspicious in the third paragraph of the view issued in reference to this bill. We have also drawn attention to that suspicion in the end, the plurality in the third paragraph of its view. In any case, I say again, it is a proposal for a technical, timely, objective law of parliamentary necessity, for the representation of all groups on the board of directors of the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights, so that all parliamentary groups are represented. We, as everyone knows, do not approve the law, the establishment of the institute, for important discrepancies, but it is a law of Parliament and must be applied until it is amended. And in this sense, the presence in those bodies which decide – I say again – public policies, which decide on the basis of public budgets, has to be shared by all parliamentary groups. It is clear that Parliament's representation in this institute cannot be restricted or limited, as it should not be in other bodies that are also out there, and that is why we understand that it is appropriate, now that the Gogora Board of Directors meetings are being set up again and that we need to work, that we need to look at budgets, and that we need to look at other policies in relation to the fund and the work entrusted to that institute, and that is why we intend to adopt and endorse this proposal for a law. And we will vote in favour of the procedure and we will vote in favour of the final law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together Podemos, Mrs. Wide, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u3	Good morning, Mrs. Tejeria. President Urkullu, members of the legislature, good morning to all. This last subject, which we are about to discuss today, will be very easy; The law of 4/2014, a change of the law for creating the Life of Memory and the Educational Institute of Human Rights. In the eighth article, as he mentions in separate b, the conversion of five members of the legislature from the four members of the board of directorry. So we must adapt ourselves to the new political reality of the elections of September 25. Of course, we shall all agree to this in the whole assembly. It's obvious that we'll all agree and it's important that no political team should stay outside the Council. We can't forget that all parties or political forces around memory are the only organization we're working on. We must not forget that Gogora is the only institution working in the field of memory in which all political forces were participating. After the recent debate on the constitution of the paper on memory and coexistence, it would be a real pity if this did not continue. If we don't change the law in this case we're dealing with today, we're not changing the political group that's least voted, i.e. Popular Party, the editor would be out of the board. It is necessary, and we have always maintained, as we have hitherto, in the foregoing debates, that we should keep these forums or stations which all political forces contribute to each other, and that we should share in the making of honest efforts to create new areas. I won't stay too long. As I have shown, together from Podemos, because we are favorable to the change of law, we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, I'm sorry. I should've left it before, but I didn't realize and the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u5	Thank you, President. Today we will open the doors to all parliamentary groups to participate in the work of Gogora. That was the initial intention of those who promoted the law two years ago and recovered it and approved it in the past. Because Gogora was born with that vocation of participation of all who have to contribute to the construction of coexistence and memory from the policies that the institute designs. And in that "all" we are also those to whom the citizens have given us parliamentary representation. In its original wording, four representatives were chosen because only four of the existing groups then intended to participate, but today we know, fortunately, that there is no one who wants to feel excluded, and that I believe deserves that timely and concrete reform. Socialists want to keep that above all else. That law was born with a great effort of consensus, with much effort even among those who at the original time, in 2012, we maintained serious differences in other matters. Our party then ruled, and considered this task to be crucial, as it still is. But also that, as crucial as its construction, it is essential to compete as many actors as possible. Rigor, consensus, discretion and legal certainty is what has always guided us in the journey that led us to the end of the murders, and it has guided us in the reparation of those who have suffered the violation of their rights. That is why, despite the great differences, one in the government and the other in the opposition, we are looking for an agreement that would involve the nationalists. When the Government changed, both parties felt concerned about the same responsibility, and we reached an agreement. The promoters of the initiative assume from the beginning their inadequacy, and our ambition for it to be a proposal shared by all. It was not possible, and there was no lack of criticism, no longer harsh, but in some cases even excessive, on the part of those who voted against and on the part of those who profiled themselves. However, even the People's Party and Bildu wanted to have a presence in Gogora, and it seemed to us appropriate and convenient. Today, two years later, a new group is incorporated, which has clearly shown its willingness to be also active agent in the construction of policies of memory and coexistence. We don't want anyone who wants to be out, nobody. All voices are necessary, that all ideas and contributions that you want to make are linked to the institute. Just three weeks ago we were debating here how we in the same Parliament organized ourselves to do our outstanding task in the presentation we are going to make. Unanimity was not possible, and we regret it, and yet we still want the presences, voices and contributions of all who sit in these seats to be possible. Mr. Barrio, yours, of course, too. The fact that the legal reform that we are adopting today is also being promoted by you, we want to interpret it as a ray of hope for the future. If that party two years ago doubted Gogora's tasks, it seems that those doubts at least partly dispelled, and that could have been possible because you were present at the institute. That is what we want to see happen also in the paper, because, as in the case of the parliamentary forum, Gogora's law expressly states that this institute aims to prevent the rewriting of a history of legitimization of any form of terrorism, violence or violation of human rights. That is the way, with the clear objective of recomposing confidence in all the forums that are presented to us to build coexistence. We understood this in 2008, when we made the Act on Victims of Terrorism, despite being in opposition, despite the fact that this project came when the shots that killed, among others, our colleague Isaiah Carrasco, were still resounding, and even when the rest of the political debate was marked by the Act on Consultations. Nor did the most extreme differences we had with the Government at the time make us avoid our responsibility for the reparation of the victims. And we also understand this when we advocate a parliamentary agreement that would accompany the policies of coexistence promoted by that socialist government. Despite the opposition in other matters, the PNV also understood that the delegitimization policies in the classrooms and the Law of the Institute of Memory, which we had to recover in the next legislature on the same basis of agreement, had to be followed. And when, despite our differences, from the previous government we were proposed to work on the Police Abuse Victims Act, we socialists too knew we were up to it. None of these laws achieved the unanimous support of the House, but all of them, all of them, have ended up settling down as a space shared by all. That is why we want everyone to be able to participate in Gogora today as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. We have the actual change of the law of creating high-schools in hand today, and the very motives of the intention of law which we have presented, and the voters who have spoken before me, have also made clear the reasons and ends of this change. The Gogora Institute was born with the aim of designing, managing and evaluating public policies of memory, thus being an instrument (of the instrument I would say) of the public administration, of the Basque Government, to manage these policies. But besides this, in addition to a public institute for management, he also intended, intended and continues to pretend to channel political participation and pluralism, and these principles have been inspiring since the beginning of the Gogora institute. The will of the promoters of the Law on the Establishment of the Institute of Memory, Convenience and Human Rights has always been that of the construction of a plural and inclusive memory, and this also reflected in the composition of its governing bodies. However, after the last elections, the text has been shown to be lame in one of its sections, because it did not allow the participation of all the parliamentary groups, of all the political sensibilities of this House, and, as I have been told by those who have spoken before me, the will of the proposers, the will of the legislator, has always been that of plural participation and collaboration among all. So far, in development, in the years we have been working at the Gogora Institute, work, budgets and action plans have generated a broad consensus on all projects. The debates that have taken place within the governing bodies and the actions launched by the Gogora Institute have led not only to the agreement, but, I would say, to a very favourable, very positive opinion of all the political parties, of all the members of the governing board, of the memorialist associations, of the victims' associations, etc. Therefore, we believe that it is a value to preserve, and to preserve that value comes this proposition of law. I hope that this spirit of work, this attitude maintained by all the members of the Gogora Institute, will be extended to all the tools, to all the bodies that work the policies of memory and coexistence in Euskadi. And this also includes, as Mr. Pastor said, the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence. To conclude, only give thanks to the parliamentary groups which have signed the legal proposition, and to all the groups which, without being signed, appear or appear to-day. Thankfully, especially those who are not signs, because they have their optimism and the different ideas we have or have about the structure of the school, have put together multiplicity and agreement. We think that's the way we're going, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. After the discussion, the legal proposition will be made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u9	So it is unanimously approved to produce the Institute of Memory, Collaboration, and Human Rights for the Change of the 24/2014 Law of November. There's a vote. Yeah? Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Very short, with a unanimous consent to accept this point. I'd like to make it possible for me to agree in this important change of law around the Institute, however small it may be. And I ask you to take advantage of the teams that will stand on the side of the memory of our lives and the rights of men. Let's be committed, even in this season that's offered by the strong. Let the plural, multiple, be respected in the disputes of the harsh. I want a little shade that doesn't wear out today's decision. For when the Law of the Harde was tested, the 8th Article sets up the Institution of the Council, and the change of the Law, is said to represent Plurality. When we discussed the law, we were to seek for another balance in the board of directors, the plurality of the institutions is guaranteed, but not the presence of all political sensibilities or social associations. Today we are to say that only 5 of the 28 members will be members of the government or not members of the team that support the government, and we at first said that we didn't agree. But, as I say, leaving this shade on the table, it does not deform the value of this decision which we make here today, and I wish to remark it thus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the proposition of the parliamentary band as well as of the reforming tax. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made this proposal, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Pinedo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u12	Good morning, everyone. Today we bring the necessity of reforming tax policy to this Chamber of EH Collectors. It is not indeed the first time that we set the necessity of tax policy and of reform in this parliament to dispute. It is true that several times during the preceding law of tax policy we have spoken of the initiative of the EH Collectors, but this does not at all destroy the routine of the matter, which is not of the least importance. Unfortunately, that miracle of bread and fish promised to us by the previous Finance Advisor, Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, has not occurred, and some of the issues that I myself advanced from this rostrum, to the misfortune of the most vulnerable layers of society, have indeed arrived. In fact, on Monday itself, at the Council of the Basque Trade Court, we, the EH Collectors, spoke of from the beginning of 2016, pointed out here to the President and to the chairman of the Gazabarria: The tax-predictions made for 2016 have not been completed. And it's the worst part of it, not even the new predictions made in October 2016. On Monday we knew the final data for the 2016 financial year, and, as we had been warning since the beginning of the year, the data has been bad. They have not met the collection forecasts, not even those revised downwards in October, when it was already more than obvious that the 7% increase in collection over the closing of 2015 that had foreseen the Basque Government and deputies in the Basque Finance Council was nothing more than a desideratum. Five hundred and fifty million less collection. And this fact, ladies and gentlemen, is not a curiosity, it is not an exception: it is a point and followed on a path of non-compliance with collection forecasts, a collection that has proved to be entirely insufficient for the maintenance of quality public services, the impulse of our economy and the development of our society. This non-compliance is one more fact, a non-compliance with more than one tax counter-reform promoted by the PNV and the Socialist Party, current government partners, to counter the path initiated at that time in Gipuzkoa by Euskal Herria Bildu. A counter-reform that was born lame, a counter-reform that was born whipped by a partial and short-term view of the tax system. A fiscal counter-reform that already in 2013 we warned that it was not going to meet the expectations created by its drivers and that today, in 2017, it is more than obvious that it does not meet them. It's the chronicle of an announced failure. The saddest of all is not the fault in the estimate, but the consequences it has for the citizenry. And rightly, Mr Urkullu, when I invited you here to discuss these issues in the last legislature, you remained motionless in your seat, as you were then fully aware that this tax reform was completely inadequate. A tax reform that has brought public budgets to a state of stagnation; that does not contribute to the development of Basque society, to the development of the welfare model that this society requires. A tax reform, in short, that has not been able to equip our public administrations with the mechanisms to respond to the challenges imposed on us by the economic crisis and the erratic prescriptions of more rancid liberalism that have been applied against it. That it has not been able to prevent our society from having suffered the shock of inequality, precariousness and, ultimately, the loss of social rights to which the austerid recipes of the different governments have brought us, here in Madrid, the Troika or the European Union. The data is there, and I can't figure it out. This policy of taxing the forces, which was adopted by EAJ, PSE, and PP in 2013, has never yet completed the collection of taxes which had been foreseen. In 2015 there were no more than 467 million Euros, and in 2016 more than 547 million euros. I mean, for two years, he's had less than $115 million dollars to support public policies. It's a hell of a failure. It is not only that we, EH Collectoricus, give only the standard of society which we defend, but that it does not at all answer to the degree of well-being required by the society of euscal, and does not seem to contribute to the advancement of development which this people require. No, that's not just it. The policy of taxing the forces does not conform to the predictions of the parties who support it, nor do they. And in front of this situation, the answer cannot be eternal. The answer cannot be given here last year by the head-masters of the novels: waiting for him, or lately so fashionable, to think. Waiting for data to finish the year. Waiting until the results to be given by the reforms have been completed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u13	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u14	Thank you. Waiting, after all, until a moment when it won't come. Mr. Subjugation at the Ogage Committee told us that it was necessary to reflect on the policy of the established tax policy and that they were made. But recently, for the form of the tax-form, it has been clearly shown, especially for the amount of changes which ought to be present in the society of society. We were glad to see you (and the days are over), we're really glad to put on the table a collection of money to maintain the administration's expenses. We are glad to doubt the nature of so many removals in the society of society; we are glad to say that there is a chance of increasing the prosecutor's pressure. After all, we're glad to hear what Mr. Sub-Daddy has said so often. Welcome, welcome to the clamour of the tax-form. We can only congratulate ourselves on the fact that Councillor Azpiazu has said that it is a priority to increase revenue collection, because the current trend in revenue does not support public administration spending policies, because the time has come for an increase in fiscal pressure, and because the government does have something to say about fiscal policy, as it manages 70% of the revenue collected. But, unfortunately, the joy lasts little in the house of the poor, and it has not taken long to leave Confebask, once again, to mark the pace and direction of fiscal policy in this country, in short, to correct the councillor, to amend the councillor, to counter a greater fiscal pressure to the development of the economy, to insinuate perverse effects on their business results... In short, the abecé of book liberalism that has long been proved wrong. And we have already seen this Monday also at the Basque Finance Council how they have given folder to the issue. Again, wait, and deny that they are hostages to a failed fiscal policy. Again, the ostrich policy: hide your head so you don't see the obvious, so you don't face the inevitable. For this reason, we believe that there is no longer an excuse for not making progress in the tax reform that we have been claiming for a long time since Euskal Herria Bildu and many other social actors. If we are already more in need of this tax reform, the modification of corporate tax, for example, by putting a stop to the multiple deductions that leave nominal tax rates in rubber water, the time has come to deal with it once and for all. And therefore, from here I invite the Government, from here I invite Mr Lehendakari to lead this country in the sharing of wealth through fiscal policy. I invite you to step down from Platero and start galloping with us, in a redistributive income policy in which you pay more really those who have more. Retrieving, for example, the wealth tax that has already been introduced in Gipuzkoa, taxing those companies that, like Güeñes or Muskiz, pollute and produce a society that is less healthy for all of us. I invite you, together with the political majority in this country, to stop courting and following the economic policy dictated by Confebask, and to join our demands. It is an offer of dialogue, at a time when citizens invite us to make great country agreements in front of the conservative wall that robs us outside the natural borders of the Ebro or the Adur. Don't take criticism the wrong way, really. Look with us forward, for in this case the saying that any time past was better is not fulfilled. And therefore our proposition, in order to enable the growth of our people, and to avoid social rupture, diversity, and unemployment, is essential to a proper public policy. A strong public policy to answer and encourage our reality, the model of production, and the proposed romances. And to feed these policies, because it's essential that the tax policy is fair and redistributor. A real tax policy based on social justice. Moreover, it is necessary to make a public debate about the policy of taxes, which will leave the usual darkness of this field to the exclusion of the ordinary, and which will be open to the contributions and proposals of the social agents. Because it's everyone's responsibility, because it affects the rong. Tax policy is not a matter of understanding or understanding, tax policy affects all of us, and we therefore believe that it is essential that we give the opportunity to a public debate. To a public debate in this case through a special parliamentary committee, where all socio-economic, academic and political actors can shape our vision and our proposals; where we finally agree on the direction to follow in fiscal policy to sustain public policies that respond to the real needs of our society. We have tried the agreement with all the amending groups, and we really appreciate the agreement reached, that you all have it on the table, with Elkarrekin Podemos. This agreement could not be wider because of the refusal to admit the public debate, the creation of this special parliamentary committee that I have already commented on. Because shielding on competitive issues is nothing but an excuse. Why listen, why talk, why debate, why agree and why proposing can never be a competitive problem. We know how the functions are divided into taxes; we know how each of us has different attitudes and readings about us, but this cannot be a limit to agree with the policy of taxing the people. The tax policy will make changes, we know, but let's get along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. It's the turn of the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u16	Good morning, and thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. The truth is that it is difficult to talk about fiscal reform in a calm and constructive way, when just a week before this debate takes place, a balloon is launched into the media about a possible rise in taxes that may already close the very possibility of the calm debate, even before it is born. And yet, from Elkarrekin We believe that this debate is a fundamental debate for the country, because the well-being of people and also future social development depend to a large extent on our having a fair, balanced, redistributive and sufficient fiscal system. That is why we believe that there are two fundamental issues to be raised in this debate. The first is how and where the debate is going, and the second is the content, that is, where reform has to go. Because it seems clear that there is a certain consensus that reform is needed, but the question would be whether it is done in one direction or another. And there we may disagree. On the first point, the question of how and where, I would begin by asking the PNV representatives about the statements of Councillor Azpiazu last week. I would like to remind you that Councillor Azpiazu is the most responsible of the Basque Treasury, and when he launched his balloon last week he was short of time for the voices of his own party, which are institutional representatives, to immediately disallow the Councillor, even before he could put forward his reform with a minimum of rigour and with a minimum of calm, as I have said before. And I ask you: Do you defend Councillor Azpiazu, or do you defend the voices of your own party that disallowed him? Because it would not be wrong to remind those voices of the validity in Euskadi of a law of 1989 on Harmonization, Coordination and Fiscal Collaboration, article 2 of which expressly states that "The tax rules of the historical territories shall observe the rules which, in the matter of fiscal harmonization, establish the laws of the Basque Parliament...". And I ask you in the second place whether the PNV defends the validity of this law and whether it defends its full application. I ask because it seems that in this country tax reforms are always being carried out behind Parliament's back, on the closed side of the Basque Finance Council or in the offices of some parties. And from Elkarrekin We believe that it is time, once and for all, for Parliament to assume not only its competence, but also its leadership to push forward this equitable, progressive and sufficient tax system that the country needs to move forward. That is why it would be worthwhile to support the proposal to set up a panel or special committee to study this subject and allow its discussion, as we proposed in our compromise. Secondly, with regard to the type of tax reform that Euskadi needs, before going into the nuances of what are the approaches that we are doing from Elkarrekin We do want to make a preliminary consideration, which is very important to know why we are in this situation. Because the first question we have to ask ourselves is: why is Euskadi, why does our territories have this imbalance between income and expenditure right now? And at first sight the solution seems simple, the answer seems simple: it seems to be a question caused by the crisis. Indeed, the crisis has led to a decline in tax collection, which in turn has created a huge imbalance in public accounts, and has led different administrations to have to resort to debt, to raise their public debt ratios, to deal with current expenditure. Euskadi is a good example of this, because in 2007 we had a debt of 600 million euros and right now we have more than 10,000. That is to say, in less than eight years Euskadi has multiplied its public debt by twenty, to the point that right now it is for us to each Euskadi inhabitant a debt of 4,300 euros. But the answer is not as simple as looking only at the crisis. The cause of the budgetary imbalance is due to the fact that in fiscal good times prior to 2007 the different parliaments, and in Euskadi the General Councils, legislated fiscal reforms aimed almost exclusively at reducing the taxation of capital and business profits. And those reforms were slimming down the possibility, the ability of the public coffers to cope with the vavancies of the economy, and they have ultimately brought us to what we have right now. And so the maxim of neoliberal policies was fulfilled, which say that when the economy goes well taxes are lowered, and when it goes wrong taxes are also lowered, to see if we get it going better. And what did we do here in Euskadi in the days of fat cows? So the same as the rest: lowering taxes to those who had the most. And the corporate tax, which Councillor Azpiazu proposed this week to lower, was already reduced in 2007 from 33 % to 30 %, and the maximum rate of the IRPF rose from 48 % to 45 %. And, of course, where are we now? Now, when many economies, including the Basque, bear astronomical public debt ratios for that cause, the economic authorities now tell us that we have to go to austerity and cut spending. But, of course, if taxes had not been lowered then, perhaps the ability of the different public administrations to deal with current expenditure and the crisis would be much greater, and would allow us to be in debt without having to exceed the limits imposed on us by our membership of the euro. In any case, we welcome the fact that even those parties that during these years have assumed austerity as their new political mantra now assume for the first time the need to raise taxes. Because, in fact, what was not raised before is already taken into account, and that is that we can square public accounts by increasing revenues to make them balanced with expenditures, and not only by lowering expenditures to balance them with the revenues we have. So it's never too late if the bliss is good, and at least we have the satisfaction from Elkarrekin We can no longer be the only group that stands up for that new path that has not been contemplated so far. Because the policies implemented for ten years, which have been cutting spending one year and the next, and the next, and the next, are leading us to a social deterioration, are bringing us more and more people to be excluded from the system, and all this is putting at risk, on the one hand, social cohesion; on the other hand, the solidarity of our society, and, thirdly, even, even if they do not believe us, the very essence of democracy as we know them so far. But when we come to this point, the inescapable question is where we should target a possible tax reform. And here we have six approaches to do from Elkarrekin Podemos. First of all, we have to say that a tax reform that deserves such a name in no case can have as its sole objective to collect enough, it cannot be a mere instrument of collection. A real fiscal policy must be a powerful instrument of governance that allows, on the one hand, to redistribute wealth, and, on the other hand, to foster a more balanced and sustainable economic system. If we limit its scope to a mere matter of revenue or expenditure, we are limiting it from the beginning. Secondly, it seems clear that the sufficiency of the tax system is primarily due to a determined and co-or-di-na-da struggle against tax fraud. And I want to emphasise the coordinated word, because today Basque farms are not just examples of coordination, but today they are even more opaque than the State Tax Agency, which is. Thirdly, we also admit and consider it necessary that, in addition to the fight against tax fraud, there is a need to increase the tax effort. But this increase cannot be indiscriminate, because, if the pre-2007 reforms benefited especially from capital income and business profits, now the reforms will have to be aimed at reversing those effects, and not indiscriminately raising taxes to the entire citizenry. And under no circumstances should they fall on labour incomes, which today already support 90% of the country's tax collection, either through the IRPF or through VAT. And, in this sense, from Elkarrekin We may consider that there is room to increase the progression of the IRPF, but even more so to review upwards the inheritance and donation tax or to increase the collection of the property tax or large fortunes. Fourthly, we believe that, despite the limitations of Basque farms or the Basque institutions to act on indirect taxation, the possibilities of instruments such as environmental taxation are not exhausted, which would not only allow us to increase incomes, but would enable us to promote a more modern, balanced and sustainable economic system. Fifthly, in order to reassure Mr Larrañaga and Confebask, from Elkarrekin We do not consider it necessary to raise the company tax indiscriminately or at its maximum rate. What is currently straining corporate tax collection is the tax incentives and bonuses that are being applied to some companies. And I want to end by talking here about tax avoidance practices that are also taking the lead of large transnational corporations in Euskadi, which account for 75% of tax fraud associated with corporate profits. Words that may not sound to them, such as related transactions, foreign securities holding entities, sicav, holding companies, subsidiaries in tax havens, equity companies or corporate entities, are some of the ways in which right now large companies are exercising unfair and illegitimate competition over Basque companies that tax in our territories. Are we going to continue to allow it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u18	Good morning, everyone. We have to discuss today a proposal which EH Bildu has tabled, which, she says, relates to tax reform. We share with the proponents – and I don't think that's new – that taxation is a useful tool (also said the spokesman of Podemos), a necessary tool to build a country project that will make us progress as a society, that allows us to have public services that cover the needs of citizens. Taxation is one of the most important tools for achieving greater justice, greater equality, greater solidarity and a just society. Taxation serves precisely to provide sufficient resources for public administrations to sustain the maintenance of public services and benefits, to effectively redistribute wealth among the population and to boost growth and job creation. This I have said now has been said in a much longer time by EH Bildu's spokesman and Podemos's spokesman. I mean, basically, we don't seem to be different. And we are so convinced that we have incorporated it into the government agreement that we have signed with the Nationalist Party, because we believe that it is necessary to preserve an equitable, progressive, sufficient tax system and to ensure an optimal balance between revenue and public expenditure. And it will not be with us who has the difficulty of understanding what a balance between revenue and public expenditure means. The Socialists do not believe in the debates of raising or lowering taxes, we do not believe that this is what needs to be discussed, because the debate must be about what public services we want to have and how we want to pay them. And our position on this matter, on how to pay them, is also clear: we want them all to pay, and we want them to pay more who has more. Nor have I distinguished myself from those who intervened before me. And this reflection we also believe must be permanent, permanent in the institutions. Whether it is a permanent reflection does not mean that the reforms must be permanent, that we must permanently be reforming. Why? Because our tax system also needs some stability, because one of the keys to the effectiveness of the tax system is its ability to generate stability and certainty, not only in economic activity, but also security and trust in taxpayers. But it is also true, and here I give you the reason, that the rules must be adapted and must respond effectively to the objectives I have mentioned to you and that you have done so before me. And this is achieved, logically, by updating the tax regulations. And that is simply what has been moved to the last meeting of the Basque Finance Council and which, by the way, has given so much to talk about this week. And that it is not due to any improvisation or to any other issue, since this has become apparent this week is already a reflection that was done when we approved the tax reform in 2013 and to which we committed ourselves in the governance agreement. That is, after three years since its adoption, we will analyse the results that have occurred, we will see the virtues and defects that they have had with regard to the objectives that we have set, and on the basis of the conclusions that we have obtained, the dysfunctions will be corrected. And it is very likely that in corporate tax we still have some dysfunction to correct, and that is what the Economics Councilor certainly referred to. But he does not know alone: all the groups that participate not only in this Parliament, but in the historical territories, also know this because it is something we have been perceiving as we are being given quarterly collection data. That, by the way, you speak of the opacity of Basque haciendas, and we certainly have data not only in the web portals, but also in the direct information that has been transferred to the different groups, not only to the Socialist Group. I can assure you that the EH Bildu group and the People's Party group have also, even Podemos, been transferred the information beforehand from all the causes that have affected that you call errors in the collection and that you have had exogenous causes that you do not mention here, because you know perfectly well that you would not have been able to solve with absolutely no tax figure that we would have had, because we do not control, for the moment, from these territories, even if some would like, neither the price of oil nor the export of gas, nor the price of energy. In that sense, what we have to do is bring all these conclusions to this Parliament, have a monographic debate... We did not speak of obscurantism; what we did not agree on is in the model of how we discussed it. Sometimes we get it right with the paper, sometimes with the full monograph... It turns out that only because of the matter of form have we not been able to agree, because, otherwise, we had agreed on the substance of the matter. In any case, I accept the glove that you throw us with regard to what we are doing is to agree and bring solutions to the citizens, and because fiscal policy – and we share that with you – is an element of redistribution of wealth. That is why we had only tabled two points in our amendment. First of all, we must recognise for this Parliament that we need to preserve an equitable, progressive, sufficient tax system, in the service of growth, solidarity, incentivising economic activity, innovation, employment, the maintenance of social policies and public services, and that the updating of fiscal rules should be encouraged from the OCT. And a second one that said that this Parliament holds a full monograph prior to the adoption of such necessary tax changes, so that we can assess, guide and harmonise fiscal policy from this Parliament. Then we all know that the development of the regulations belongs to the historical territories. Two objectives which, as you see, are basic, or seem basic, and which do not seem very discordant with what has been said here in the rostrum by those who have preceded me. But it gives me the feeling that, despite the fact that music sounds good to us all, everyone listens to a different lyrics. The Socialists listen to the music and the lyrics with clarity, because what we are clear is that the bill for what has to come will not be paid by average rents or low rents, and that the bill not to review our tax system will not be paid by citizens in cuts in services and fees. But we also do not believe that companies that use their profits to reinvest should pay this invoice, but that those with profits should not be reinvested if they have to contribute more in proportion to that solidarity bill. And neither can we allow anyone to stay without paying his bill. And here we continue to have as our priority objective, we had it and we continue to have it, the fight against tax fraud. And we remain convinced that better results can be achieved in this area, and that the coordination and connection of the actions of all administrations in the pursuit of this scourge remains fundamental. And despite what the spokesman for Podemos has said, much progress has been made. It is only necessary to see the evolution of the measures taken (not only interconnection measures, but also information and data-crossing measures) in order to know how they have evolved. Yes, that's true, and I'm going to give you the reason, there's a lot to do and there's still a lot to take, but I can't give you the reason why you haven't done things. The commitment to fight tax fraud was reflected in the agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party in 2013, nobody escapes (the creation of the commission to fight fraud, the interconnection of data...), and continues to have its presence in the agreement of 2016, with the development of comprehensive plans to fight tax fraud, with the quantification of the objectives of collection for this reason, and the increase of the actions of control, monitoring, penalization of fraud and the submerged economy. It is a path that does not begin today, much though EH Bildu has brought this proposal here today. It is a road that we started in 2013, and which, by the way, should not have gone so wrong, because at that time you were proposing a resolution that said that we should raise the fiscal pressure five points in the next two years; in your proposal now it tells us three points in the coming years. Something will have increased for you to lower your position. That is to say, the 2013 reform would not be so misguided, even if you in this rostrum are to criticize it, when you in your proposals reduce that need. I don't know if it's because you think that with that drop in collection, those billions that haven't been collected, you don't have to have those two additional points of fiscal pressure... No, if you will explain it to me, because you have a turn to be able to do it, and so I too can understand it! We started a way in 2013 in corporate tax to try to make big corporations based in our territories and with great profits not have a real rate of zero percent. We started a way, we explained it to you, to simplify deductions, deductions and exemptions. It is an extensive labyrinth in which ordinary citizens and small businesses are lost, but some know how to use it to seek refuge and avoid paying what would be theirs, or paying less. Now it will touch on the analysis of whether those objectives that were intended with this tax figure have met expectations, and, if not, know what the flaws have been and try to correct them. But it will be in view of those results, when we have the data and when we know exactly where it is being produced and what needs to be changed, when it can be done, and not before. And this is a question that here in this Parliament is not written in fine print, but we do in the historical territories, where I have been for quite some time. And I was able to ask EH Bildu's spokesperson who was on economic affairs if she could, without the missing data, without that analysis, propose to me the changes to the company tax to correct the dysfunctions, and the answer was clear and clear: "No, I don't know exactly what is failing. Intuition." Okay, but in fiscal policy, you don't have to guess, you have to know. Let's wait, let's modify, let's wake up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u20	Good morning and thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, chief of departments, good morning to all of you. Pindo, Becerra, Castelo, and, I suppose, a special day for Monsieur Damborene. Mr. Becerra, I'll start by quoting you. We'll take that money for Debat. The tone of the discussion here will be decided by us, and the will of our legislative party, at least, would be a serious discussion. Mrs. Pindo, I'll begin with what you say, a little bit to put this conversation between us. You mentioned not predilections, "reform que nacio coja," you mentioned the circle of jurisdictions, and you said that "retribution equiviva de las rutas" has been the main lines or ideas of your speech I have taken. You said that the predictions were not achieved, and you said it hasn't been achieved for many years. You didn't mention, for instance, that when EH collected in 2012 at the Aldudian Gulf, the predictions were not made. If, then, the data is said to have not been fulfilled in the year and in the foresight, let us do a good exercise, which was neither performed in the Gipulia nor in the harban nor in Biscaia. But according to the data given by EH Collect in Gipuz, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Almost 6% didn't complete the preview. but even when you have managed it, it has not been fulfilled. Let us not therefore place ourselves in any place, that we may not be able to foresee. Reasons are not the only ones, but there is not only a cause and a consequence of it. There are several reasons when you're running it and when we run it. That's why it's so necessary, you say, to think about how fashionable it is. And it's not a fashion thing for us, Mrs. Pindo. It's not a fashion thing. In public politics it is absolutely necessary to evaluate what has been done, to reflect on the new measures of evaluation, and of improvement, if necessary, to enter. And that's what we have to do right now. The tax system we're discussing today was discussed in 2013, which was admitted here in the Parliament, remember? , we had a single argument with only one subject, and it came into power in 2014. We used to say two things from the start. On the one hand, the tax system in any country must have been stable for a few years, and we said from the beginning, that after these years the evaluation, examination, reflection would be necessary. And that's the moment we're here. It has been three years, and now it is in the first six months that it belongs to the institutions which have jurisdiction, to examine and make proposals for themselves. The evaluation, therefore, is not a question of fashion, at least for institutions managed by the Jest Party, but a necessary exercise, and an important instrument in the improvement processes. To say "Una reform que nació coja," is to say a great deal. What you know here was a change of tax which was, as you know, a very large political protection, and a very large protection from the institutions. At first we agreed to the Socialist Party and to change the current system and to the Popular Party. So you didn't protect him, but what you couldn't say is that he's not protected when you're not there. It's protection that gives a political majority. In this sense, we do not agree with each other in the same manner. He then had a vast political protection, and it would be our will to re-establish the changes of the tax system as large as possible. And if it were possible that you, on the other hand, should be able to unite on some sides, and be larger and larger, it would be better. That's what we'll look for. We've always claimed to make this change within the limits of our jurisdictions. But in this and other matters. We know that we don't agree in this matter. I don't know what the creative delegates will say, because there's so many of you there. I know we're not going to agree with you, and I understand that you, the Basque Alcharities, are planning a team of jobs in the legislature to make this reflection. For when we and you have spoken, it has been our intention to arrive at a middle-way, that it should be the political agreement that we demanded, after all, all the changes of forward. And one thing has led us away, as you say yourself, that you required a team of the legislature to create, to reflect, to discuss, to introduce proposals in this process of tax-based update. What we do not understand is, how it is possible for us to enter into the proper circle of the Fordaudian Forum Aldidentia, where the evaluation will be performed in the aldudities, propositions will be made within the circle of the forum and of the principal assemblies, and the regulations which will be established will be admitted in the principal assemblies of every historical region. Then how is it possible, Mrs. Pindo, from the standpoint of the Combat, to make agreement with the General Assembly of the Arabs in order to accept the budget, others with certain points of consent for the prosecution, not to proclaim the public debate, not to proclaim there, to agree to the work, which is to be done for the first 2017 months, and to do what we propose to protect in the middle of the year, and to act in the six months of the 2017, in the sphere of rights, to come to the law, and to be the fundamental of the law, where it is impossible for us to enter into one point of view. How it would be possible to put in force here a set of places for discussions, and then to be agreed on by you in the Supreme Assembly, to reflect for three months, to present proposals for three months, then to seek steps to get the harmony of the other countries, and then to accept them later. For they are not typible, nor are intelligible; therefore we have not received this point of ours. We've had one all the other time. Mr. Becerra is just about to finish the time, we may have more time to talk on the second round, but I'd like to say that you've mentioned two things, which are quite contrary to them. You have mentioned the fact that, for instance, you criticized the sufferers. That they ought, on one hand, to take away these removers, because they reduce them in the end, and in the end they destroy the effective quotas. And in the same way you have stated that the vindicative would have to be pushed. I'll tell you, he's one of the removers: "Deducción por inversions y gastos vinculados a Procurectos que procurello soliable, la conservación y mejora provechamente y el provechamento más effiente de furente de mergía." In like manner, you propose to put a receiver into place, and likewise to deprive him of it. So there's a contradiction. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing in the district of non-correction teams, the Euskal popular, Mr. Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to stand still in this new debate. [[Barres]] that we have in this Parliament today, and just by mentioning the famous fiscal pact that was made a few years ago, we do enter. We went in to lower the tax increase that was being proposed, in some cases so that those who won less would pay no more than others who earned more than them, which was what had been signed between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. Mrs. Pinedo, my income estimate is flawed. That's not true. There's been no failure. There hasn't been a failure. There hasn't been a failure! Because failure may be that, depending on the forecast of GDP growth, we make an estimate of income... But, of course, when the GDP growth estimate rises, it is higher than expected, and it turns out that revenue collection is more than half as expected, there is no failure there. That's not a failure. That is that it was expressly agreed to put a figure that they knew was unreal, but it was very good to bring budgets here and everywhere to say "Uy..., we're going to invest a lot, we're not cutting anything...". And then in the execution of the budget, then, let's do what they called inexecutions, and do the cuts especially in what investments were. Here everyone welcomes the proposal made by Mr Azpiazu... Well, everyone doesn't know; at least the two groups of Podemos and Bildu are pleased that Mr Azpiazu said that we had to raise taxes to pay the expense. I'll tell the representative of Podemos one thing. It is not true that the current expenditure of the Basque Government has decreased. If you look at the data for 2015, which is the last one we have to close, because 2016 will have to wait until 2017 to know, so that we do not know where those adjustments have been, you will see that it is the year in which the most current expenditure has had the Basque Government. And yet you will see, as you said... Because you said that when things went well, taxes went down. I'm going to turn a little bit around your sentence: look, in your opinion, when taxes were lower we collected much more; then we've raised taxes, and we still don't collect what we collected when they were lower. Then you have to think about it: you might want to lower taxes to create more jobs, there are more people contributing and we collect more! It's a possibility! I'm just telling you to come forward with your speech, with which you brought us here today, which in part I agree with what you have told us. And the key is not that the Basque Government needs more money, which is not true, is not true. The key lies in the efficiency and effectiveness of spending. Because we've had enough of hearing how this government spends the most on education, and it's true, but we don't have the best education! And he's the one who spends the most on everything, even on public television, and it's true, but we don't have the best public television, much less! Besides, no one sees her, so someone would have to make him look at it a little bit. And now they're announcing that they're going to go up to 140 million a year, which is going to cost us the ETB. More than 100 million in Basque! Societies and entities have not closed one, even though some serve no purpose. We've got more and more high charges. And of the efficiency and efficiency of the management of the RGI I let you read the newspapers and how much it has been paid too much, and when it recovers and when it does not recover. No more money is needed; you have to manage better, but much better, than you can do and it is quite simple and easy. Mr. Becerra was telling us about the sicavs. Don't worry, there's not one left here! In the Basque Country there is no sicav. These gentlemen said, "Uy, here the rich pay less taxes, so we're going to tax the sicavs," and then what happened? That they're all gone. Do you know how much we collect from the sicavs? Zero. In the Basque Country, zero. What's that supposed to mean? Well, those of us who didn't have the money in the sicavs now have to pay more to make up for those things. But here, when the speech is made that the rich are going to pay more, it turns out that they are leaving, and it is up to us to pay more to the others, and in this case it is to the middle class, the people who work, who contribute, who are being held in the company, and the officials. That is the reality, and all the rest are words that will look very good but serve no purpose. And as time is running out, I have one thing to say to the Socialist Party and the Basque Government. The Socialist Party... Let's see: "The development of the regulations corresponds to the general boards." Well, no, no. No, no, So, I'm just going to read them, because here some should read what the Economic Concert says, and so none of them even focused on what we're talking about. Article 1: "The competent institutions of the historical territories may maintain, establish and regulate within their territory their tax regime". Okay. Is that clear? It's not here, is it? I say! They don't develop anything, do they? I say! That we know what we're all talking about! And when the Basque Government and the Socialist Party present us with such a paradoxical compromise amendment as to tell us at the first point that the tax coordination body should encourage the updating of fiscal regulations, one recalls that by governing Mr Patxi López we brought the law to promote the creation of self-employment and entrepreneurs, and there came a little article that said "The Basque Government is urged to put fiscal measures in the tax coordination body to promote that", and these two gentlemen resorted to the Arbitral Commission, because we were supposed to go beyond that, we were going beyond that! But the most pathetic thing is the second point. I'll read it to you. I don't think anyone here... "Before the approval by the competent institutions" (I suppose the general meetings) "of any fiscal change" – of those for which the Economic Concert says they have the capacity – "the Basque Parliament will hold a full monograph..." (This has just been signed by you! Do you know how many tax rules the territories pass each year? Have you been asked? Does the councillor talk to the outside Members of the Treasury?), "... will hold a full monograph on taxation in order to assess, guide and harmonise fiscal policy throughout the Basque Autonomous Community". If I read Article 2 of the Economic Concert, which speaks of the general principles, or the 3rd of fiscal harmonisation, we will have to collegiate that then we will have to make another full monograph in the Congress of Deputies to see if the outlaws, before approving anything, are well harmonized and the fiscal pressure is more or less the same or is less or more. This is what you brought here today. It's ridiculous in principle, because, of course, if a Member of Parliament presents an out-of-court rule... By the way, the amendment of the Tax Code, the adaptation of the Civil Law Act to the IRPF and other taxes is now being processed. I do not see you asking for a standstill, and we are going to do a monographic debate here to see what we think of those laws. I haven't seen them do it! They're processing themselves now! The three General Boards are currently processing at least two tax changes. So, this thing they brought us here, what is it? Well, I guess what it is!, which is part of the initiative of those. What I can't understand is that you have folded into this. And finally, I'm going to do a reflection, because, of course, when we talk about "we have to raise the fiscal pressure", which is the initiative that you bring us... Of course, what is tax pressure, how is tax pressure measured? Tax collection, between GDP. What does it depend on if I go up or down? GDP! Of course, GDP! And why don't we talk about fiscal effort? What measures the fiscal effort? The percentage of the salary that citizens pay to pay taxes. And it turns out that in Spain it is 40%, the highest in the euro area. Why don't we look at what citizens, taxpayers, pay instead of you all day thinking about "we're going to charge you more to spend it on those things that we don't care about"? At least we're not interested at all. Not at all. We do not understand the need to express more citizens, who make a fiscal effort of the highest in Europe, because it is poorly managed from the Basque administrations. Then we will continue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Pinedo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u24	Well, a ver si me aclaro... Yes, good morning again. And thank you all. Well, I'll start with the end, Mr. Damborenea, which we already know and we already know our substantial and striking differences in fiscal policy. I don't have much to say, because he's made us his bee again, like I do mine. But, of course, expressing the citizens and all these questions... nothing has ever come out of my mouth that is aimed at that. I am very clear and since EH Bildu we are very clear who are not paying what they owe. We are not the ones who put multiple deductions in the tax of companies that do not take us to any productive place, and we are not even the ones who continue to have tax holidays out there that were made at the time, or other issues. But, come on, the debate I think, Mr Damborenea, was not exactly what you came to tell me here today. Mrs. Castelo and Mrs. Gorospe, I think I'll have to answer you both because you've been properly correcting each other. That stability and certainty are needed is something we have always been hearing. I'm not going to be the one to put that on. That's obvious. But I insist that this tax counter-reform was clearly not going to happen. It was evident in 2013, and from this very rostrum what you tell me today, that we all know that there are dysfunctions to be corrected, especially in corporate tax, in this rostrum in the 2013 debate I myself told your colleague that at that time he was dealing with tax policy issues. I said, "We'll find ourselves, not long after, assuming that the corporation tax is full of cracks, full of holes, and that it has more deductions, bonuses and everything you want to invent that you can imagine." Of course, they tell me, "That's the big companies, they know how to use it and so on." Sure! But it is you who put it on the table, although they were warned that that tax needed to slim down that whole part. And, moreover, Mr Azpiazu put it back on the table last week, and all you have come to say here is an amendment to everything Mr Azpiazu said last week. Everything, absolutely everything. I understand that Mr Azpiazu has chosen not to come here today to the House to hear how the parties supporting the Government do absolutely nothing of what he said last week, not even support it. I think it is absolutely normal that Mr Azpiazu did not come. Exogenous causes. Jo!, they had a lot of explanations, but the reality is that the corporation tax after the reform continues to collect less than eight or nine years ago, when companies are already giving other profits. So, there's not much to do there. And the monograph is true that it was remembered, that we have to agree on the "eskumenak". Eskumenak gora eta eskumenak behera. Hemen adostu zen politica fiskala, ez batzar nagusietan, ez monografikoan: PNV-Socialist Party agreement. This is where you agreed on fiscal policy, and that's where you agreed on it. There was no further discussion, because they did not open the debate. You agreed, you did. Ball point. Ball point. And in the Araba agreement – I do not like this issue of territories, which some seem to have the public's wild card with some territories – it is very clear: "In the first half of the year the fiscal debate with economic and social agents will have to be addressed". Economic and social agents. And that is what we also proposed here, an open debate. Let us listen to everyone who has something to say in this country about fiscal policy, let us open the doors of this Parliament, because in the end, whether we like it or not, it is this Parliament that reflects the three territories, it is this Parliament that reaches the three territories. And let's not trap the loner. And it also leaves me like this, a left to the txoko, Mrs. Gorospe, with which EH Bildu has many voices. Tell me about it this week! Mr Azpiazu says A, Confebask says B, and act followed the deputies say D, and leave absolutely, in absolute solitude, the councillor. Let the PNV come to me and talk about discordant voices... The sailor! Mariner's screen! In the end here to what we have come to,... What we were proposing at the end was – this labur egingo dut, anderea president – to agree on a road map, because we know that in fiscal policy we have different points, and of course we are proposing measures that you will never support, because you have another point of view of economics and fiscal policy. Obviously, and no one's going to deny that. But we proposed to agree on a road map, a road map to make a public debate, to listen; a road map as agreed in the GIR or Lanbide in this Parliament. It was therefore essential that the social partners of this country should be involved. And it has been done in this Parliament. And why not tax policy, which influences all of us?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u26	Mrs Gorospe, we are making the debate so quiet that you have not even answered the two questions I have asked you. So I'm going to repeat them again, see if this time... Do you support Councillor Azpiazu, or do you support the voices that have contradicted and denied Mr Azpiazu? And the second is: Do you defend the application and enforcement of the Harmonization and Tax Coordination Act? And this question I will also extend to the representative of the Socialist Party and the representative of the People's Party: Do you defend the competence of this House to exercise fiscal harmonisation? Because we're talking about the law! You are the defenders of the law, you are the defenders of the law. Do you defend an existing law? That's what you have to answer. Secondly – and I am already sorry to dissipate the debate – a third question should be asked, and that is why the institution that spends 70%, has 70% of the country's expenditure, is tied up with its feet and hands precisely to exercise and approve an active fiscal policy that allows it to meet its budgetary needs. Because here we are not only here to hold debates that involve political support, as Mrs Gorospe has said, in a single plenary where it is a kind of dialogue for the deaf. I would ask the representative of the Socialist Party: in the reform that is being proposed, what role do you have?, where do you have a voice? Because do you have representation on the Basque Finance Council? do you have representation on Sabin Etxea? Because that's where this next tax reform is going to be decided! You should be the most interested and the most interested in having a serious debate in this House that is far more serious than the one that can be given in a plenary. In a committee, in a paper, that's where the opinion of the expert people and so on really stands, and you're really defending a position that's a little incomprehensible. Because if we are shielding ourselves from competition problems, which, it seems, is all the problem there is, that we do not want this House to have that competence, that the law gives it to it (that the law gives it to it, remembers Mr Damborenea), what we are forgetting is the problems of the people and the companies to which we say we defend. Because right now a tax system that does not guarantee people's well-being and does not guarantee the balanced development of the economy is obviously not responding to these problems. Mrs. Gorospe was telling me that I've come up with a contradiction. I have not spoken of removing exemptions; I have spoken of reviewing (no deductions, no exemptions), of reviewing them, because we have to see which are fair and which are not, which are helping corporation tax and which are not helping... And, of course, I repeat again that here we have to talk about tax evasion. Mr Damborenea said that there are no more sicavs. Well, they may not exist, but there are many other instruments that right now..., there are many other instruments that right now are making family businesses that you claim to defend face unfair and illegitimate competition from multinationals that are paying their taxes in Luxembourg. Do you agree that this is the case? Answer us! Because you claim to defend entrepreneurs, businesses, but the problem we have here is that there are multinationals who are not paying taxes here, and yet they are competing with the companies that do pay them. Therefore, the problem of tax evasion is not limited to whether the sicav is here or in Madrid. It is a much more serious problem than you suggest. Nor have I contradicted you by saying, Mrs Castelo, that we do nothing about tax fraud. It is being done, but it is becoming insufficient and uncoordinated. And I have talked about coordination as a fundamental issue. Obviously, I suppose you will have some ability to enforce the government pact that you have signed, and I hope so, because the issue of tax fraud is a very important issue, on which you are taking steps, but the estates are taking steps when you have been drowned, when you have not had another remedy. Until then, the fight against tax fraud has been a secondary issue in Basque farms. And, well, last but not least, I do not agree with Mr Damborenea's assertion that from Elkarrekin Podemos (Elkarrekin Podemos, I want to stress; we cannot exclusively) let's say that citizens have to pay more. No! No! If the first thing we have said is that the tax reforms that were made went to the highest incomes, and yet to the middle and low incomes it is the ones to which the entire taxation has been charged! And on that we agree, it doesn't have to be those rents that pay it. They have to be those who have benefited from the previous tax reforms, which are the highest incomes, which, by the way, you legitimately defend. I'm not going to oppose that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u28	It's a quiet debate. Calmed yes, but with passion, because when you have passion it is because the topic is important and it is also necessary to take it with a lot of impulse and with a lot of push. I just want to say to the People's Party that what you have done here in the gallery has been to bring to the absurdity the proposal that we have put forward by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party. And you read me the parts of the legislation you want. The Harmonization Act should not be known to you, and what we have said, and we also have very clear competences, and you also have them. He knows perfectly well what this Parliament can do, which can harmonize in fiscal policy so that there are three territories-one country, that is, that Alaves, Gipuzcoans and Vizcains are treated in the same way and receive in the same way. Because that is also our model, and I imagine it will be yours, that will not go to the realms of taifas. And we know perfectly well... When I was talking about development – I'm going to have to be even more dotty when it comes to talking here – what I was talking about is that where the approval of the rules is made logically it is at the general meetings. And when we talk about any tax change we mean any tax change that affects tax figures by modification, not by adaptation of regulations. But, well, if all the argument we have is that and it's to lead to absurdity... I have reviewed everything you said in 2013 regarding that proposed reform. You did not share the model, you spoke of the fact that it was better that citizens were free and that they would have more money, and that it was they who could make their job creation... In short, that it was not necessary to have a country of subsidies, but of free people and such. Then, with four amendments, they accepted the model, okay, but those are the things that happen when you talk in this rostrum and in others. Anyway. There is something I have not understood, and that is why at this time we do not want to support it as a full monograph where we discussed the subject of taxation, because three years ago it was worth us. Nor do I understand why they say that the Socialist Party does not defend public debate. For three times we had to bring him into the previous legislature, for three times, eh!, but we did not lose our commitment. The first one was ignored, the second one was ignored, and the third one (as the saying goes, the third one is defeated) here we were. And we want to keep doing it, we want to keep debating. And it is not true that because there is no presentation we will not have the proposals of the different agents, because the different agents worry very much about getting them to us. I have brought you only two very different ones: one, the one that makes LAB on fiscal policy and tax model, and the one that makes the Circle of Basque Entrepreneurs on fiscal policy. The two have brought them to us, not only to us, but to all groups. I mean, we have proposals, and experts talking about the tax model as well. I mean, there's no need for that paper. If we need a debate in which we agree, among all groups to be able, and on the highest possible basis, the tax measures that have to be subsequently adopted at the general meetings. But it gives me the feeling that this is a little... Well, that, you said a debate for the deaf... I think we heard each other, but we didn't hear each other, did we? You say, "They haven't answered any questions." They haven't responded to me, either! I mean, I've asked why tax pressure can now be less than three years ago, if that means that tax reform was on the right track, if in the end... I haven't been answered either. Well, in the end here the rostrum we use it for what we use it for. What I am is a defender of the law, and I hope you are, too. I mean, when a law doesn't like it, you have to fight to change it from the instruments we have, but while we don't get the majority enough to change it, we have to respect it. Those are the rules of the democratic game, and we here are firmly convinced of that, and I hope that everyone in this parliamentary circle will be, too. Therefore, we have one way to go, because we have a semester to analyse and evaluate. I have said that we are aware, or that we sense, of the results in collection that the company tax has had, that the objectives that we have set ourselves in that tax it is possible that they have not been met. And you will have to know what the causes are, because it may not be everything, as you say, that maraña of deductions and bonuses, because it has already been cut, it has been modified and those bonuses and deductions have already been unified, and there are only a few left, not all of them. And there was also an effective type that has to be enforced, and you need to know if that's working, and if it doesn't, why, and who, and what typologies. And when we have that data, it is when we can also be right about the type of reform that we need to implement, so as not to harm those companies that properly reinvest their profits in issues that increase productivity, innovation, development, the environment, environmental protection, and to be right about those that use tax engineering tools so as not to pay what is theirs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u30	With so much paper, I was transcribed in which I again wrote down the questions I was asking directly. I think I remember them well, and I'm going to start by answering them, Mr. Becerra. First question: "Do you support the statements made by Councillor Azpiazu and the rest of the voices?". Yeah. We support all the statements and reflections that all the speakers and institutional leaders make in a debate process, at the time when that debate, analysis and evaluation should be made. I mean, everyone has to do the analysis, and when they're doing interviews they each give their version and their opinion about what they're asking. And they all have a meeting point, a common point, all of them, and they say, "Let us analyze the data, let us evaluate the results of that tax reform, let us make proposals that we will share with each other. Give us that time to do that exercise." Second question, I think I recall: "Do you approve the law, or do you agree with what is provided for in the Harmonization Act adopted by this Parliament?". Answer: "Yes." That is why we in our initiative proposed, and as a parliamentary group in all our proposals, that we work in a harmonised way. That the debate, the reflection and the adoption of the relevant outside rules be effectively carried out in the relevant competition area, because that is the country model and that is the institutional structure and architecture that we, as a political group, defend and have defended throughout the years. Which you may not share, you may present another model...; you stand for election, and depending on the election result you get you will have more or less options for that country model to materialize. Ours is this, and with this we introduce ourselves. But, of course, harmonisation is necessary. That is why we propose that in the Government, the Tax Coordination Body, a body that has the power to carry out an analysis of all the outlaws that are being adopted at every moment in the historical territories, should carry out a technical analysis of those norms and values whether or not they are actually being assumed to be deharmonized. And in his case, if that were to happen, we would have to act. Therefore, I think I have answered both questions. And by the way, if I may, I want to tell you, to a reflection that I was doing on your first shift too, that at all, I agree with you at all in the analysis that makes of the Basque haciendas. The coordination work and the work in common between them, and with other bodies of a different nature, in the exchange of information and data in order to be able to actually do their work, is ongoing and works well. And it always has to be improved, but as in everything, as we have said before. That is why evaluation is necessary. Mr. Damborenea (well, I have two minutes left), there is no mistake in the forecasts... Look, I in a debate not long ago reminded you here of what precisely Elena Franco said at the Basque Finance Council: "The deputy of the Foreign Treasury expresses her total confidence in the capacity and rigour of the technical staff in her department, and points out that it was the competent technicians in this field who have prepared the estimates of tax collection." That's right. And, I say again, I trust the technicians and politicians who are working, and I don't think anyone is going anywhere willing to lie. That is what we defend and we will continue to defend, regardless of who it is. "You don't have to raise taxes, but manage better." Mr Damborenea, rigour and responsibility, are the keys to the management that is being done in the Basque public administrations. You only have to compare the results of indebtedness, deficit, and the results they are, and also the degree of satisfaction of Basque society with the management of the public policies of the administrations that are managed in this case mainly by the Basque Nationalist Party, and by other administrations. You lead for that. Mrs. Pinedo, I think when we spoke about the Abbatá treaty you showed me a press treaty that says... You showed up a role, I think it was a press marriage. I've got a copy of the contract. And I look at him and see him, and he doesn't mention here that he's "que se habula con vas socioómicos." Nowhere can he be. And if you say that the agreement between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party took away the public debate on taxation, what do you mean, that this agreement that we have signed with you, where it does not refer to the public debate, has also taken away that public debate? Because what it says here is that what you agree will be consulted with you, with EH Bildu, with no one else. Eskerrik asko, president andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Becerra, are we defending harmonisation? Yeah. That is not uniformity, because, if not, the Congress of Deputies approves all the rules, and the story is over. Now, perhaps you do not know how taxes are harmonised, or perhaps you do not know that there is already a harmonisation law adopted by this Parliament. So, of course... No, of course, of course. It is that harmonization is not done in this debate or in a full monograph, as the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party put it here! There's no harmonising there, is there? So, of course we defend the law. Of course. Also in this case. And when I tell him... You don't tell me we defend the richest. That's what you'll do, because every time someone comes here to say "we have to raise taxes to the rich" we end up paying those we're not rich. And I gave him the example of the sicavs, who pay zero. "It's just that before they paid little, we're going to raise them." Now they're paying zero. Who do we pay more? We're the ones who aren't rich. So, I repeat that every time someone like you comes here and says, "You have to raise taxes to the rich," they raise them to the usual ones, and basically to the middle class and to those who have less income. You know why? Because if retentions are made, even if they would not have the obligation to declare, as they do not declare, they will not recover the retention. They're the most tax-paying stretch ever, the lowest-income stretch. I'm just saying, let's get this straight. Mrs Castelo, model of free citizens. Yes, we continue to maintain it and we continue to defend it, and it seems to us a barbarity that 40% of their income is to pay taxes, because that makes it difficult to be free citizens. We understand it that way. And, Mrs. Gorospe, I understand that you trust the PNV politicians. That's where we could get to! Even in those who lead the Basque Parliaments and Government and participate in the Tax Coordination Body. I don't doubt that. But, of course, let me not trust them so much, right? What's more, I don't trust much, especially when they do calculations and forecasts. And progressive politics and Mr Azpiazu's statements. I agree with Mr Azpiazu that it is a barbarity for Basque companies to have the type of 28%, which is one of the highest in Europe, which is in Spain at 25, and that it must be lowered. And I hope he does. And I hope he does. And we agree with Mr Azpiazu that large companies have to pay more, and that this is a progressive policy. So I take it that Mr Azpiazu agrees with Mr Cristóbal Montoro when he made these statements ten days ago. Because, of course, the actual rate of these large companies, which was being paid the last legislature, was 3 %. By the way, with a progressive government of Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero. To these large companies Mr. Cristóbal Montoro increased to 8%, and the previous week he said that we had to go back... which, in fact, they had to pay more. Therefore, it seems to us very good that all of you agree with this, and I hope that everyone will vote with fruition for Mr Cristóbal Montoro in the Congress of Deputies when I raise it. Or what are they going to do? Of course, what are you going to do, including the Basque Nationalist Party? Or do I have to remind you that these large companies do not tax the corporation tax that is passed on the general boards, but rather tax the state rule? Or do I have to read you another article in the Economic Concert? Or do we not know how nothing works here and we come to deceive the staff, and we cheat in solitary? Do you really want those big companies to pay more taxes? They support Mr. Cristóbal Montoro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. It's over and we're going to vote EH, and we're together with the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u34	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucan Abertist and the entire correction introduced by the Basque Socialists together. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u35	As equality is, we'll vote again. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u36	The principle of equality follows, the vote will be left for the next assembly. Third point in theme list: "In the same manner as the parliamentary policy of Podemos, with regard to the diminution of sub-contradiction in public administrations. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that has made the proposal, Mr. Bollain, representing Podemos, is yours to present the word to you and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I would like to explain this proposal to you in obedience to the law of this practice, which governments are so fond of. And sometimes, though late, I find that we have not all, fortunately, the same ideology, and, logically, that no one likes to have the privilege of public services, but by looking at the arch of the legislature, it is obvious that I am sometimes mistaken with this sentence. We had no doubt that sooner or later we would have to discuss the issue of privatization of public services in this House and in this legislature, and, as for us and ourselves, this issue is of vital importance, as we saw fit to discuss it in one of the first ordinary plenary sessions. Basically, it is a very deep problem, it is a problem of a privatisable world for the benefit of a minority and at a great cost to a social majority that cannot be allowed. Privatization was traditionally sold as exemplary processes, lauding a supposed efficiency of the private sector and appealing to false paradigms of development and modernity, or talking about the benefit to the State. However, this has changed dramatically, radically, when a long-term perspective has been adopted. And it is that now most of the citizenry negatively values these processes. Of course, it is now that most of the citizens are suffering from these processes. Privatization has become one of the main economic policies implemented since the last decades of the twentieth century, as a fundamental element of the neoliberal capitalist model driven by institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the OECD or the European Union itself. And today public services are one of the main demands of a citizen who is pissed off by cuts, by the precariousness of their working conditions or by the deterioration of these same public services. And as we truly agree with that critical citizenship with privatizations, and because we are concerned about the issue, we have tried to reach agreements with the parties in this House, talking to all of them, and in that regard we have negotiated an amendment with the parliamentary group EH Bildu. The first agreed point calls for compliance with existing legislation. And it seems little, to comply with the law, but how sad it is when someone has to ask in a parliament to comply with the law. It asks – and I quote textually – that the Basque Government "respect and comply with the provisions on the outsourcing of services in Decree 83/2010, as well as the regulatory agreements of the various areas of the Administration derived from that agreement". Frankly, I would not understand that the parliamentary groups present here are refusing to vote in favour of this point. Another thing will be that it will truly be fulfilled. And many times the right has blamed the insistence on keeping public services out of privatizations on a left mantra. But let's not be fooled. This same week, on Monday, there was a union appearance in the Health Commission, where all those present made two fundamental things clear. The first – what I was saying earlier – is that Decree 83/2010 is not being implemented. And it was clearly said by the unions. It's not something I'm making up right now here. It's not done. This decree is not being implemented by the Basque administrations, and we would like you to undertake to comply with the legislation in force. The second point in common among all trade unions was that privatization undoubtedly materialized in a more precarious working environment for women workers and in worse services for the majority of Basque society, which could not or would not afford access to private education, private health or other privatized, precarious, deteriorated or directly unprovided public services. In this regard, there is no doubt that, while public administrations implementing neoliberal policies ensure that privatization allows them to be more efficient in management and save costs, there is no doubt that trade unions argue that these outsourcings are accompanied by wage cuts and a deterioration in the working conditions of workers. To sum it up in one sentence, as Tony Judt himself said, the privatization of the public sectors is inefficient. And this has been more than demonstrated by a multitude of reports and studies. Yesterday, however, you, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, voted in favour of CETA, a free trade agreement that gives free access and further chronifies these processes of privatization of public services. In 2010, for example, UGT published a report in which, in addition to demonstrating the inefficiencies of privatizations of these public services, it could be clearly seen how job insecurity increased after privatization. He claimed that subcontracting allows for much lower wages to be paid than would be the case for a worker in that company, and also without any kind of compliance with the agreement relating to that company. And it's serious, it's serious, because normalizing these kinds of practices ends up normalizing job insecurity, and it's unwarranted that that makes it a public institution. We therefore also need to carry out a study in order to clarify the situation of contracting for services from the date of entry into force of Decree 83/2010 to the present; a study to be carried out within three months and that, in order to be able to work on it, detail, minimum, the following four main points. The first should be to encrypt and identify all outsourced services. Secondly, it should analyse and disaggregate its costs, both those contained in the specification and those which are finally certified and settled. Thirdly, it must analyse the conditions of employment of each of these outsourced services: the number of jobs in each service broken down by sex, minimum and maximum wage levels of workers, working hours of service, and collective reference agreements. And finally, the study should also indicate the process to be followed to reintegrate such services into public management, and the economic difference that would be compared to previous management. Let's do a study that we can work on, and then we can see what is the best option to provide the best public services to citizens. It will be the way to know if, as the triple alliance of privatization defends, the outsourcing of services has been positive for the administrations, and especially if it has been positive for women workers and citizens. We approved here last Thursday unanimously, which I was very pleased to see, a non-legislative proposal to dignify, once and for all, the working conditions of women workers in Bizkaia's senior residences. And we said then and we repeat today also that for us and ourselves it is not understandable, we cannot understand, we cannot come to understand a society that puts the health and well-being of its citizens in the hands of a service based on benefits. We said then, and we repeat today also, that from Elkarrekin We cannot tolerate that services are provided only by looking at the business benefit, which undoubtedly translates into poor working conditions and a worse service offered to our citizens. And do not listen deafly to these precarious workers, to that citizenry that points out deficits, not budget deficits, but quality deficits in public services. And I hope that at least they will be worthy to support the realization of this study, the realization of this photograph of our present reality, so that we can have a true image of the public services of our country and be able to carry out a diagnosis with both pillars. Jean Ziegler, the current vice president of the Advisory Committee of the United Nations Human Rights Council, said that "All resistance to the privatization of public services is anathematized. Whoever endangers the exceptional wealth of the rich is ipso facto placed outside the civilized world. Neoliberal ideology fills the most powerful with tranquillity." Personally, I do not mind placing ipso facto out of the world that is called civilized, if that means defending the rights of citizens and workers. Today we are talking about privatization and outsourcing of services, but, beyond issues of public management, we are discussing the right of citizenship to free, universal and quality services for all people. Public services that are the pride of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u39	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good days. In our correction, and now in our medium proposition, what we demand is very simple and very clear. We demand the execution of the law; we demand an examination of the state of external services: You should follow the law and do a test. And at the final point, we ask that with the measures concluded from this examination, we make a strategic plan, so that the Administration can handle the services directly. We may perhaps understand that with this last point the members of the government are not in harmony, but I do not understand the difficulties which may arise with the other two. Not so long ago, Mr. Urkullu called the representatives of the private area. He called to them to open the interview with the workers' representatives and get the agreements. And after a while, the patronala, with the delegation of the workers for a long time, though it was a very general arrangement, and an arrangement was more than a plan, well, an arrangement. He obtained an agreement, in which he was received in the circle of his business affairs, that the negotiations here were to be made by the consent of the state's compacts. Undoubtedly it is an important starting-point for the construction of our own frame of art. And a great step in front of the work-form, which came from Madrid and penetrated the loss of the workers' rights. Of course, from this point of view we must go down to the little letter of this general agreement and concretion, and see what is the will to fulfil it, and what is left of it? But, as Mr. Urkullu encourages the patricians of the private district to the agreement, we cannot forget that the same Urkullu, together with the other departments, is the patriarchal of the most important company, the patriarchal of the public administration, the patriotic system. The supreme and ultimate authority of the system, which ought to be the guarantee of all the citizens' rights. A manager who manages, manages, invests, or spends all of us. And unfortunately what others ask for is but a few political wills to apply to themselves, which we have hitherto seen. And no doubt, in this case, in the public district, the volume and weight which are contracted by contract are not ridiculous. As if it's not stupid to do these hiring, the economic conditions and technical conditions that the public administration imposes. Usually economic conditions prevail under technical conditions. And just as it's not stupid, once this contract has been done, they're tracking their management, or rather they don't follow, because there's no tracking, there's no control. And, well, it seems that the Administration doesn't care what happens to public service, to the quality of service, and to the people who offer those services. As a result, the services of public administration, and the ethical duties which you proclaim so much, the worthy conditions of the working-men, are left unresisting, and condemned to presidency, to provisionalness, and to poverty. Who suffers the consequences of all this? Well, people. The citizen suffers from it, because the quality of the service is not guaranteed. The laws, the rules, and the laws which the Government gives itself in the first place, ought therefore to be observed. For starters, for starters. Besides, now that the legislation is at the beginning, and the Administration may be on the way of the General Table, why shouldn't we begin with what's in force? That would be a good start. Otherwise, what kind of credibility will it have? What kind of credibility will the administration have when he makes an offer or says he's ready to make an agreement? He has no credibility, because he does not fulfill the agreement he made, that the 83/2010 Decree which regulates the treaty of the General Table is unfulfilled. Look, it doesn't have to be bad to get out of service, but when the management of the services is out, the workers are on the job, pre-precise the workers, well, it's not good management, it's not good management, it's not the prax of a good manager. When the service is released and the service is more dear to us all, that's not a good management, that's not a good manager. If public service's quality is difficult to guarantee, that's not the point. That's a neglect. And when it's used to weaken the public system, to guarantee business, some of us guarantee business with public money, which is not a good manager, that's not a good management. Because it's logical, and it's allowed that private companies are designed to profit. It's logical. But the object of public administration cannot be profit, but the object of public administration must be general interest, public interest, social gain, and well-being. But what we have seen in the past years is that public care, but under this dimotomy of the expression of management, is that public employment is abolished, that employment is exercised, that there is no guarantee for the service's quality, and that public system, which is the backbone of the Common-wealth, is slowly weakening. The government will have to explain to us whether this is a political decision or a neglect. We don't know what's really behind it. But this also shows that not even the transparency which is so often proclaimed, for in the long chain of contractations the transparency becomes obscure; The government hires a company that hires another company, and we finally have a tremendous long chain. The long chain. And there's no one there, no one to follow, to control what happens to our public money, what happens to the quality of service. At last darkness. Instead of securing transparency, darkness. e.g. Here on Monday we had the representatives of the workers of the health world, and all of them, what was the nature of the unions, agreed on the diagnosis, and agreed on the measures which they themselves believed ought to have established. And the question of Margüello was also a result of the wrong transparency and praxis. And here there was an investigating committee and that commission is a clear one. Well, what I've been saying before: What's going on? What's going on? The Pribate train is running rapidly: Urduliz, ambulances, Santiago cleans, Leza's laundry, kitchens, ESI from Tolsa, that's all we can do in Osare alone and so we can go on the field. And without going in, because we could do another thing and another thing, with the public initiative, with the public fun, and public corporations that have been created with the public money, which have been privatized since the past few years, and which have left all knowledge, knowledge, and capital in private hands, e.g. Euscalte. And this prax has become quite a habit. We think, then, that the time may be convenient for the legislation to begin with, and for the sake of the whole. This isn't government, this is everybody's. What you do with the money of everybody. It's everybody's services, from a whole society. And we think that the time may be the time when the oppositions which tend to the public care for everything, to be ethical, to introduce social, equality, and tolerable criteria, and, in short, to begin with the execution of the law. It's a funk, the rules that this GIGD has established, to start with the law. And it seems to us that we can begin by this way, that we can also make an examination, and open the doors to the General Administration Table, open the doors to the interview, and open the gates to the negotiation as the worker's representatives are petitioning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing round the teams that don't run, the Euskal Popular groups, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr. Bollain, I'm not out of my astonishment, I honestly tell you. I thought I was going to be surprised today, but not so much. When the President gave the floor to you, she told us that she was going to tell us about the reduction of subcontracting within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, of Basque public administrations. You have come up to the rostrum, and you have not spoken a single word of subcontracting, you have not spoken a single word of public administration hiring, and you have started talking about outsourcing or privatization of services, which is a different concept. That's why I'm telling you that you don't leave me warm; it's just that, come on, you've left me completely surprised. The amendment presented to him by Bildu has been eaten, and his speech has disappeared. Because you in your speech, in your motivation, told us: "Globalisation makes companies try to lower their costs, and that negatively affects the conditions, or undermines the conditions of work." That's not entirely true. I mean, as far as I know, since the company is a company and work is work, here we have tried to reduce as much as possible the costs to increase the profits, whether it be the economic benefits, the enjoyment of free time, or whatever, gives me the same, any kind of benefit. But I buy you the idea: because of globalisation, the conditions of subcontracts, of your workers, you say that they are absolutely penalized and that they have diminished and that they have gone backwards. For that, what do you propose? It says: we are going to urge the Government to reduce to the fullest possible extent the sub-contracts of the Administration, and we are going to require it to limit them to a single level of subcontracting. I go to the dictionary and I say, what is a subcontract? And in the case of the public administration, then, look, the public administration pulls out a contract (which does not have to be a service of its own, it can be a work, it can be a certain service, other than its usual powers), pulls out a contract, and it is awarded to a lord, to a company. Such a company may decide to do so by its own means, or to engage with third parties. That's where the subcontract is produced. He hasn't told us about this at all, he hasn't told us at all! And then you come and tell us those subcontracts disappear. I don't agree, but I'll buy you the idea. What would happen if those subcontracts disappeared? That the great contracts of the public administration, of the Basque Government, of the deputies, of all the municipalities – because you refer to all the administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community –, all those great contracts, or the most important ones, will only be able to make them big, huge companies, or multinationals. I'm surprised you're proposing that. I'll tell you why? Because small businesses, the self-employed, don't have the sort of work they need to do, then they couldn't go to the competitions, and they couldn't work for those companies that take the competitions because you don't want the subcontracting, and you have to cut it to the bare minimum. We have to take into account the principle of legality. The principle of legality tells us that public administrations draw up contracts, what kind of contracts, and that subcontracting can occur. This is reflected in the Consolidated Text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. We are incompetent (don't be offended: incompetent in matter, not that we lack the ability or ability to do things). That incompetence tells us that you should bring this proposal to the Congress of Deputies, and in the light and with the influence that all European legislation has, amend those texts to prohibit subcontracting. With this prohibition of subcontracting, I insist, all the major contracts will be carried by the multinationals, which, as Mr Becerra, his partner, has reminded him, previously do not tax here. Then we are going to have a double effect: firstly, the fall of the collection, because they do not tax here; secondly, the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs of self-employed and small businesses or local businesses that work for the administrations and that will no longer be able to work, because they lack the necessary requirements to opt for these large contracts. With this I, Mr Bollain, do not buy you the idea at all, because what you are proposing to me is to charge the workers' rights and to charge the income, and that is with the aim of giving better service to the citizens. With what money, if we're going to lose collection? If we have less collection, we have less available to give a service to the citizens! Citizens who are going to need public administration more, because they have run out of work thanks to the fantastic idea that you have had that our companies (the real engine of our economy, which are not big companies or multinationals, which are self-employed and SMEs) are out of work and that they cannot work for public administrations. Mr Bollain, that is what you have told us in the text. But he goes up to the rostrum, and he has told us everything (of the outsourcing and privatization of services, of improving quality, and he has even told us about the CETA treaty), but he has never said the word subcontracting. He hasn't even talked about the scope of subcontracting, what kind of contracts, who, where... It has gone to the amendment that Bildu has put before it; in fact, it is that the agreement that they have reached between the two is ate all their initial position, and speaks exclusively of a decree, 83/2010. This decree has nothing to do with subcontracting; residually, a point of article 60. Residually, of the hundred and peak items you have. That decree, 83/2010, which you have applauded and placed as the first point of the transaction and which tells us to vote for it all, because we will comply with the law... Man, of course! You don't, you don't. We do. We clearly demand and ask the Government to comply with the law, and to comply with that decree and agreement, of course, but not for the purpose you seek, which is to eliminate all kinds of outsourcing of administration services. What does that mean? Build a huge model of a very strong public administration that does everything for itself. I mean, we're going to let go of the companies that work for the administration: everyone to work for the administration. What's the holdup? Let's hire all the unemployed, let's do all of us. Look, it's that we're pretty much advocates of market freedom and citizens' freedom; then, that model doesn't fit with what you're proposing to us. I'm so sorry. And that is why we are not going to support the initiative that has brought us here today, because we do not like it, because we do not like the objective that you have intended, which is to leave our self-employed, our SMEs out of work, and to leave our out-of-pocket farms without collection capacity, because what needs to be done is to avoid subcontracting. You see, I simply think that we need to look at things better, and before we make a suffamation, which looks very good, which looks very nice, perhaps for an election program, perhaps for a concentration behind a campaign, what we have to see is what effects that can have on citizens. Eliminate these subcontracts – to which it has no longer referred, because it seems that it has seen the light and changed its mind, but that they are in the initial text and in the title of the GNP we are discussing – would eliminate them mean poverty and unemployment, for citizens and for public administrations. With regard to that 2010 decree, do we support compliance? Of course I do! I have asked Mr Erkoreka, who is here, on several occasions – although not with much success, everything has to be acknowledged, but I do not lose the hope that when the next budgets come to us I will listen a little bit – that, for example, he will fulfil the part of the social duties to which he refers (the EPSV, Itzarri in this case), which is reflected in that decree; that they will comply and that they will make the contributions. I'd love for you to do that! I asked him in the last legislature, without success. I'll ask you again on this one, if it doesn't come in the budgets, I wish I was wrong and there it appears. But that decree touches upon a lot of issues. The one we are dealing with today, privatization, outsourcing or subcontracting, article 60. It is already planned to set up a committee to make periodic reports; it has to see what has been outsourced, what has been privatized, at what costs, who these people are. Did they? Well, that's what we're going to have to demand in particular! We can't come here with a PNL to say, "Come, you abide by the law!". Okay, we all applaud, and we're going home. Then we give a press conference and "No, no; I was interested in this point, this concrete aspect". If you close the matter a little longer, modify that transactional agreement and tell us exactly what you want from that decree, we may applaud that first point. The rest of the points, on which you intend to do a giant public administration, leaving aside businesses and private workers, are not. We will never agree, because that is more typical not of a modern system, of market freedom like ours, but of totalitarian regimes. Apart from that it is absolutely and totally unsustainable. That is why they cannot count on our support, neither for their GNP nor for the compromise agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u43	Good morning again. It is now up to us to discuss a proposal put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos concerning the policy of hiring public administrations. I have been generous, and between the original and the final part I have wanted to go in the spirit of what you have wanted to defend here, and I think it is the subject of the policy of hiring public administrations, with which you do not agree, be subcontracting, hiring, re-contracting... It doesn't matter. Here everyone direct management, and with conditions of civil servant. I thought I understood that, and I think we've at some point commented on it. He knows that I cannot, at first, share the justification of the proposal, since in it he questions on the basis and rejects the existence of the procurement of services, no longer only between the Administration and the companies, but between the companies themselves. I would already like to know how the economy has to work then, if complementary services cannot be provided between companies either! It demonises in this forum the indirect management of services, both by companies and by administrations. It considers it to be a source of job insecurity, and a source of quality in services. It is something they do not share, by their deeds and by their words, some colleagues of their training in other administrations in which they are responsible for management, because there they are aware of the legality and opportunity of this resource, of the possibility of improving its effectiveness and efficiency, and what they are doing is not to reject this possibility, nor to publish all the services they provide, but to incorporate conditions into it. It is not going to be alien or novel to Mr Bollain, since he was able to listen to me a couple of hours ago, what our position was with regard to what the policy of hiring public administrations should mean, and he certainly remembers how we recognized that for socialists public contracts are not exclusively a means of obtaining services under the most advantageous conditions for the administration. It is not just an economicist criterion – and I explained it to you – but we believe that through public procurement we can and must intervene in economic and social life; that we must ensure, at the same time, both efficient use of public funds and the achievement of other kinds of general, general or social purposes, such as respect for workers' basic labour rights, which you are not going to teach us now that you have just arrived, because we have been defending it for a long time. And I explained it here, and I am not going to repeat it to you in this plenary, because it would seem excessive to me, which means respect for the framework of collective bargaining that must be developed not by parliamentarians, but by trade unions. And to introduce the policy of public administration hiring goes beyond an economicist approach, to that objective is to respond to the support that socialists gave in this House to Law 3/2016 of 7 April, introducing social clauses in public procurement, in order to collect measures that must contribute to making public procurement a respect for fundamental rights. And those are not my words; they are the words of your partner at Madrid City Hall, when you defend the use of hiring private companies including in it these kinds of clauses. He believes that this is an area of respect for fundamental rights, and I must say that I agree with him. It is an area of respect for rights where I believe that the Administration – and I also told it and I am going to repeat it today – has to monitor thoroughly why these criteria and conditions are met, that it has to check that the companies to which it awards public contracts comply with the clauses that have been introduced and that they have been included in the contract, and that it has to be very, but very firm with the breaches that it can detect. But that doesn't mean demonizing hiring in the administration. Therefore, I cannot share with you the original proposal that originally brought to this Parliament. Now, this is the origin of your initiative, because we have ended up in a compromise proposal with your brothers and sisters in Parliament. Because, because of the little history we have here, what we do see is that they are trading and have a lot of ease in trading with EH Bildu, and little with the rest of the groups. Well, what do they tell us? The Administration should ensure that outsourcing complies with current regulations. Because that's what Article 60 says! The article 60, of the hundred and peaks mentioned by Javier, the spokesman of the People's Party, of that decree that mentions us to be fulfilled. I imagine it is the agreement regulating the conditions of the workers, which, by the way, we signed the Socialist Party when we ruled with the unions. One article, the 60, talks about outsourcing, not to ban it, but to regulate it. And it also says..., and there is a subsequent agreement of the Governing Council, also in the socialist era, that there must be a quarterly report in which all this information is made known with regard to the contracts carried out by the Administration. By the way, you can have these reports, if you wish, because they were brought to this Parliament at the request of the Socialist Group in the previous parliamentary term, and you will be able to locate them perfectly if you seek them. Then he asks us to do a study, which, by the way, some of you say that you have already done, because you have told us or have come here to tell us that it costs the same thing, or that there is no greater cost to publish certain actions, and therefore, if you know it to be sure, you have the study, and then I imagine you won't need it, right? And what they want then is for us to make a plan for the services – and you have said that here very clearly, and I thank you for the clarity – to be provided directly. Well, the truth is that, once I've seen the mix we've come to, and you know that I don't share that all services have to be delivered directly, nor do we believe that indirect management or contracting is the devil, I could try, in these four minutes that I have left, to argue new examples to try to tell you that indirect management is no less efficient than direct management, no less secure, and that there are services that would be difficult to fit with own resources, or impossible. But I thought I better not, and what I'm gonna do is give you the ball back, okay? And we do it backwards: I leave the two proposing groups, Podemos and EH Bildu, who try to convince me with facts. And I tell you and warn you that you can easily do so if in any of the institutions in which you govern or have ruled, whether they are large or small (I don't care whether it was a parliament, a council or an autonomous community), you defend this proposal and directly manage all services and do not resort to recruitment. If you can tell me that, then you will convince me that what you are saying here is something reasonable for what you are doing there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. We look at the other proposal, and the corrections proposed by the law of Podemos to-day, with regard to the diminution of counter-contribution in the popular administrations. As a matter of fact, I wanted to make a small point, just as my previous colleagues have done. Well, since we actually consider that the original initiative, that of Elkarrekin Podemos, is in some way confusing, imprecise and with a certain lack of rigour in terms of legal concepts. We understand that it mixes the concept of subcontracting with that of public procurement itself, with outsourcing, that is, with direct management, and both have different legal regimes; therefore, using them as synonyms is not correct, so we understand that there is a confusion of concepts. Secondly, and also as an appreciation before entering the fund, like my colleagues, I wanted to comment that the initiative has been evolutionary: it started talking about subcontracting and, however, it ended up talking about a decree, Decree 83/2010, which is in fact the regulator of the conditions of officials of the General Administration. In any case, the development of the proposal is legitimate, and we will focus on the substance. So, going into the background, we understand that the proposal calls for compliance and compliance with Decree 83/2010, on the agreement of the General Bureau. Well, well, this decree is enforced and respected. Yes, it's done and respected. The signed agreement establishes, on outsourcing... As we have said, the agreement is about the conditions..., it is a labor agreement, but in this particular article, in article 60, it talks about outsourcing, and it says that "The Administration will preferably serve with its own means the services it needs for the development of its activity". That is, preferably by means of their own. This is done in this way: preferably by means of one's own resources. This article limits outsourcing, regulates it, but in no case prohibits it, and so does the Basque Government. Externalisations, when there are, if there are, are timely and of specific services. What is outsourced, if any, are services that do not correspond to the function of the administration in question, and are of an auxiliary and complementary nature. This does not mean that the outsourced service is of no importance. These services will be necessary for the administration in question, but obviously they do not constitute the proper role of the administration in question, either in Osakidetza, in health, in school or in the general administration itself. It must be said that we obviously bet on a 100 per cent public administration, regardless of whether in some concrete cases there are externalisations. Since 2010, there are other agreements, as already appointed, and the Governing Council approved on 29 April 2014 an agreement approving the instructions on good practices in the procurement of services. This agreement has limits to outsourcings, and it is also committed to transparency and good governance thanks to the publication of all contracts in the Basque Register of Public Contracts, the well-known Revascon. Through Revascon's network, anyone, at any time and from anywhere can access information about the recruitment of the entire Basque public sector, in real time. And the information is constantly up to date. We also have the profile of the contractor, which allows free, direct, complete and free access to the contract documents. It should therefore be noted that the Basque Government is a pioneer in recruitment, being a benchmark in this area even for other communities. In addition, the Basque Government issues reports on contracts concluded, previously on a quarterly basis and now on an annual basis. In this sense, when it is asked to be carried out..., in the proposal, in the last proposal, in which you have reached an agreement, it is stated, it is requested that within three months a study be carried out to bring out all the services that have been outsourced and their costs (and then), we have to say that nothing needs to be done. Explore all the services. There's nothing to come out of. Everything is transparent, as we have explained, with the instruments that already exist, with which we do not understand the need to carry out this study. Our Government will have things to improve, there are always things to improve, but what cannot be blamed is obscurantism. Even the word obscurantism has been named. There is no obscurantism, transparency is total. On the other hand, on the working conditions of the working people, we, like you, want them to be fulfilled and to be worthy of all people, whether they are means of their own or personnel of the contracted companies. In addition, the Government requires that these conditions be met. In this sense, in the outsourcings, the specifications governing each contract establish the obligations of the contractor in the field of labour, social security and safety and health at work, the contractor being obliged to comply with those laws, regulations or conventions in force in this field. Non-compliance shall be a direct cause of termination of the contract, in addition to any penalties that may be applicable. On the other hand, our party understood it for a long time, and we understand that the Administration cannot use the public contract with the purpose of contracting it alone, but it must also employ its public policy to carry it forward. We believe that social, environmental ends can be attained by contraction, by policy of equality, and so on. The Basque Government has for a number of years now determined, within this narrow margin left to it by the basic legislation of the State, a number of parameters or clauses to ensure that contracts or outsourcings, if carried out, are carried out with the maximum guarantee. In this regard, Resolution 6/2008 of 2 June on the incorporation of social and environmental criteria and other public policies in the recruitment of the Administration of the Autonomous Community and its public sector was adopted (and was also a parliamentary initiative). In the same vein, starting from a popular legislative initiative and following a long process of dialogue and negotiations between the parliamentary groups of this Parliament, this Parliament recently adopted, in April 2016, Law 3/2016, for the inclusion of certain social clauses in public procurement, which establishes minimum forecasts that contracting bodies must incorporate in the procurement processes. So, in our team, we understand that public services and quality are going to be. In all public services, the persons who provide them are the principal capital. Improving their working conditions and having sufficient resources is absolutely necessary, and we consider this to be so. On the other hand, the quality of services has been discussed. The quality of services is good, and if there is any irregularity at any time, it is corrected. Basque public administrations now have means and instruments within their reach that they must continue to use to ensure quality public services and decent working conditions for all people. Thus, we understand that externalisations, when there are externalisations, are subject to controls, are limited, and do not involve the destruction of employment, at all. We bet, like the Basque Government, on a hundred percent public and quality administrations. And that's why we're not going to protect these initiatives. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the answers, the representative of Podemos, Mr. Bollain, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u47	Thanks again, Mrs. Tejeria. Well, zurekin hasiko naiz, Larrauri andrea. Ulertzen has, calmly, that you are in favour of not approving this amendment which we have reached between Euskal Herria Bildu and us (in the end, when you present a non-law proposal, then you have to be flexible and you have to conform to the different sensibilities). And I understand that neither you, the Socialist Party, nor the People's Party approve it, because outsourcing avoids laborable conflicts and facilitates the toeing of related companies. And I don't say it; it was said in 2014 by the Socialist Party and the People's Party. In 2014 they said, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, that they censored mass outsourcings to companies related to the PNV. And so, what happens from 2014 to 2017? I quote; the Socialist Party said: "It does not seem that the Government is fulfilling its commitment to optimize the resources of the Administration, the commitment not to outsource ordinary and permanent needs." That was said in 2014. What happens in 2017? Because we're on the same path! By setting just one example, we could name the massive outsourcings in Osakidetza. Of course, the hospital in Urduliz is an example: externalisations in progress worth 11 million euros. Outsourcings in progress on regular and permanent needs, as you said: Outsourcings in progress in the kitchen, in the restaurant, in the lingerie, in the laundry, in the cleaning, in the security or in the maintenance of the hospital. Regular and permanent needs. You say, Mrs Larrauri, that this decree is complied with and respected. Well, everyone, everyone, every union says the opposite. Someone's lying. Externalisations, if there are, are punctual, you say: 11 million euros to externalize all that is going on, to set just one example, in the hospital of Urduliz. The People's Party, you said in 2014 that it rains on wet, and that there is a suspicion about outsourcing, as previously it has been proven that this way has been used to favor certain companies or friends. I quote. What is the problem with conducting a study? That is why we understand that it is necessary, apart from complying with the decree, logically, because it is sad to ask in a parliament that the law be complied with, that the unions say, and impact day after day on it, that it is not being complied with... What problem is there in carrying out a study that offers us the reality of outsourcing in our country, or, as Semper himself said, "little corrupts that are legal" (textually)? And, thus, with a study we can work on both pillars to be able, on the one hand, to optimize the resources of public administrations, and, on the other hand, to see what is the best way, the best way to provide better public services to citizens. You say, Mrs Larrauri, that they bet on a 100 percent public administration. Not us. We are committed to making a study, making comparisons, and choosing the best way to provide optimal resources, optimal public services, and Basque citizenship. If it's not a hundred percent privatisable or a hundred percent public! It's having a study, a report. If it is transparent, what fear is there of bringing a report to this House? Let us bring a report, a report, a study, which compares what it would be like if it were published and how it was privatized, and let us choose. Are we not for that, to compare what is the best way for Basque citizens to have quality public services? Well, that's what we have to do! And, logically, that the decree be complied with, a decree that is systematically not being complied with. And I don't say it; the unions say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u49	The public system has here been intended to oppose it to private system, and they are not opposed to each other, they are additional. Each has a function, and it is the function of the public system to restore our society, to seek social cohesion, to find equality. And the stronger the public system, the more private the area is. It's a tractor. Don't you say we need tractor companies here? Well, we have the biggest tractor company we have, it's a public company, and it's not opposite. They're not opposites. But is there any political will? Do we really believe in the public system? Or has this government already chosen to create two-speed societies? Because you're doing what you're doing in education, and education's the main pillar of society, you can understand that you've abandoned social cohesion, you can understand that you're putting down rights and you can understand that you're trying to build a society at two-speeds. Because this thing seems to be trivial and unimportant. But it's very important. The criteria we impose upon the contract are of immense importance. It's important in the case of working, because we create a pattern of working in our Basque district, and that's the way to the private area where you've so often proclaimed it. And if we destroy employment in one, and prevent it in the one, we are doing the same thing in the other. He's got a direct influence on the rights. It has a direct influence on the economy, health, occasion, nice services, education... It has a direct influence. So I've already said that the service is not bad, but when we get out of service, the workers' coast, then management is no good. When we put out the service to the cost of quality, service is not good, and service is not good at the cost of quality. And that's what's happening. It has effect also on the power of our organization, our institutions, and our associations; for here the most social clause has been drawn (we saw what request there was, what the legislative of the people had been, and what was to be stopped). And we also see how they are not included in contracts. And then we hire a company, that company hires another... And there are no transparency, no tracking. And we see what's going on in the diary, and I've given you the first examples of what we've just met in Osar and on Monday we've had on the thread of what's been published by so many occasions. What else? You see, in the previous legislation we made a number of agreements with the Socialist Party, and it was very common to make alliances in defence of the public system, especially if it brought to precarnation, if it weakened the quality of the service and succeeded in weakening the public system. But this year it is not possible, because the Social Party has devoured its principles, its principles, for chairs. The Socialist Party is capable of its principles and its criteria for chairs... to do so. You became EAJ's crutch. You already swallow the crutch of EAJ and everything. The agreement signed by Mr. López, obtained at the general table, which has become a decree, and which has become a rule, you no longer defend it. And the year before, in the previous legislation, it was very customary for the Socialist Party and the EH Union to obtain alliances. We are ready to make bargains with all, but these principles are, without doubt, the rights of persons. It's not all black or white here. Here it is also gray, and the intermediate ways, and we must all put the matter aside. But what credibility can it be to you, if you are not able to observe the laws which you have set before you, as well as the rules? Some examples: In Foru Aldendian the old buildings were published, Kabia. What had been left to the municipal offices, which were handled by corporations, had been published. Cabby. Several councils: Oñati, Berga... Housekeeping. As far as we can, if the services are not properly given, if the workers bring premification, we try to guide the proper management, because this useful management has a certain preference...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u51	And these are, first of all, the privilege of managing well the money that is common to all, and of securing the services of society which belongs to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bollain, we have not changed our mind since you referred to the appointments of my colleagues in the group. The fact that there have been recruitments that can draw your attention, because it turns out that the successful tenderers are politically close to those they awarded, does not mean that all recruitments must be eliminated. We said there was a certain tufillo. It's been said historically. But we do not say this: go out on the street and ask, and in certain areas ask. The smiles are going to be frankly manifest. They'll cheer you up the day. But that does not mean that we have to eliminate all sub-contracts and privatizations of services, and all outsourcings, because we run the risk that the holders at that time of the public administrations will commit a crime. No! No! That's what the control agencies are for! What needs to be done is to make sure things get better. The legislation is quite strict, and, as it is quite strict, all we have to do is to ensure that it is met, that all the requirements are met and that things go out. But, focusing on the various issues that you brought us here today, apart from subcontracting, I will give you my final argument why we are not going to approve the agreement you have reached. First of all, because I understand that what you should have done is to withdraw it, because if you make a proposal, a GNP on a matter, and you happen to be amending it by talking about birds and flowers, about other completely different things, and you forget about yours, the logical thing and the normal thing is that you understood that it was not the time to discuss it, and you left it aside. Well, then remove it, and let Bildu present his on outsourcing, and then we'll discuss outsourcing. That's what I understand I should have done to you. Since you have not done so, we are going to vote against it. But we are also going to vote against it because the three points that you have agreed to are contradictory to each other. On the one hand, it is calling for compliance with Decree 83/2010 and for the Government to comply with it. They don't say in what. That indefinition is a little dangerous. In everything, in all your articles. Well, perfect: that's the object of another... (I was going to say procedure, I'm going to go to other things), from another matter, from another intervention in this plenary. But at that point 60, let it be fulfilled... What that decree says is that outsourcing can be maintained, and it establishes the mechanisms for controlling how it should be maintained, what should be monitored and what should be promoted for such outsourcing to continue. Do you know why he does it? Because the law does not prevent services from being outsourced or privatized. The law, not that decree. The law in general. I know that this law, as I do not like, is not enforced. No, we have to comply with them, and if we don't like them, we modify them, but in this case we have to comply with them. But it is that you go to the second point of the agreement you have reached with EH Bildu (agreement, agreement, agreement, to call it in some way), of that text in which you have made your initial interests and left in the hands of Bildu exclusively the issue you were interested in bringing to the rostrum today, says that what needs to be studied (studies that are already done)... , what needs to be studied is how to reverse these externalizations. The decree tells us that they can exist and under what conditions, and you say no, that they are reversed and that service is rendered by the Administration. Look, that's legal and real barbarity. Let us focus on a specific aspect to which you have also referred, a hospital. Let's get to the whole hospital and residence thing. Are we going to avoid those decentralizations that have been made of those services overnight? Are we going to publish them all? Look, there's not enough economy. If we are already wrong to see the collection and maintain the system we have, if we do not get the money because we do not reduce the current expenditure and because Chapter I grows, against what all the administrations of Spain do, grows rather than decrease, how will we maintain this state and how will the quality of the services that the Government must provide to the citizens be? It's absolutely impossible. The studies you ask for are done, or should be done in compliance with the law. Outsourcings..., look at the information provided by the government monthly and annually, and there they have to be. It is an obligation of transparency. Then we don't ask to spend money or time on officials doing other studies that are already on the table. And besides that they are already done, let us comply with that decree by not reversing those externalizations, because the decree allows them. That is why, because it is contradictory and because it asks for things that are already done, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u55	When there is no argument, you enter the disqualification. I don't eat anything (well, yes, every day breakfast, as and dinner), and neither does the Socialist Party. We agree, as you do, where you come to agreements. So, I don't usually like to get into debates on this issue, especially when I come here... What we're talking about is a matter of hiring. Look, when EH Bildu arrived (you know that it was agreed, the Socialist Party with the unions), in 2010, we talked about a preferential use and not outsourcing services that at that time were managed directly. And we set out some criteria, and we publish them. We haven't changed, eh! This is 2010! And I do not know what is said in the rostrum; I know what is published in the bulletin and it is applicable. So, to me, to be talked about incoherence makes me nervous, primarily when there is no other argument but to throw demagogy into a rostrum. Here the preference was established, not exclusivity. The problem is you have it when you agree to a compromise amendment with whom you are telling and proposing that all management be public, direct, functional, which is what he has as his goal, what we can have as his goal. And that recognizes us others when you talk to us to try to fuck; that seems to be not what you say, because here you have come to tell me that, well, it could be... Moreover, there are phrases: "When services are outsourced it doesn't have to be good or bad", "It's logical that companies want to win", "Public administration has to defend other interests"... Of course, and you have to say it here because, when you have ruled, you have. You haven't published anything to me! Because what you've told me about the residences... What they did was that those residences that had the municipalities, and that it was not for them to have them, were assumed by the outlaw parliament, which was what they had to have done, with the official they had or with the external services they had, that is, with a spending ceiling. What happens is, of course, here it's easy to come and say it, and if you're not quick to take the data, then, hey, here it goes and hangs. So let us be a little serious and not go into disqualification, because I do not like to go into disqualification in the parliamentary debate, and, of course, I do not like to allow it either. On the other hand, we are talking about quality and compliance. There are reports and inspections. I mean, not only are there reports, there are inspections, and they will have to work and put in place corrective mechanisms, because everything is not always done well, that is logical. No one, no one can do anything right. And no one says that we have changed when we say that recruitments do not have to be done to the finger, but neither here nor anywhere else, as I imagine you will say, will the lords of Bildu, will say the People's Party and will say the Basque Nationalist Party. What we are saying is that the rules are respected, not that we stop hiring. That's taking things to absurdity, and I don't think we can be a party that wants to take things to absurdity either. Another thing is that we don't have any more arguments and we have to go here, so, as far as we can, but, well, I understand that. You already told me why we were talking about this again, and perfect. Okay? But don't tell me that Urduliz hospital is privatized, because the management of doctors, nurses, auxiliaries and all related medical services are public, direct management, and are not... Those who are complementary services are contracted. But don't miss him either, because we already said it in 2010, and I'm going to read it to you, in agreement of the Governing Council signed when we were government, and it's being maintained. That is, they can be hired, "pre-weighted criteria" and such... "complementary services or accessories for the proper functioning of public sector entities other than those constituting their own functions". I mean, we're not hiring medical services, are we? But we can have some others, as we talked about here, for example, cleaning, conservation, maintenance, hospitality, security, editing, printing, gardening... because it can make even more sense and it can be even more effective and efficient. Because that's what you do where you rule. I like it and it's very good to come to the rostrum... I, too, could have more benevolences here, or where we do not govern to say more benevolences, but sometimes we have to have coherence; coherence in opposition and coherence in government. And that is what I ask of you in the legislature that we have left in this debate: defend what you can at least do where you govern. Or at least have a minimum of (how would I say?)... of intermediate point. Because it's true, not everything is black or everything is white, there are greys, but what you have proposed to us here today in your transactional is to end up in the publication. And if not, explain it to Mr. Bollain, when yesterday we said, "Hey, this third point would have to change it, because we can't"... It couldn't be, because that had to say what it had to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Finally, Eucabertarians represent the team, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u57	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, Mr. Bollain, after listening to you, I'm perplexed. They're not clear if they want a 100 percent public administration. What are we talking about! We want a 100 per cent public administration. It's getting my attention. Mrs Ubera, you spoke at some point about the popular legislative initiative that was discussed in this Parliament, which included clauses or aspects of working conditions. Well, as you know, this Parliament is not competent in labour matters, and that is why certain things remained on the road, as it was intended, through public procurement, to amend the labour legislation adopted through the 2012 labour reform. And, well, I insist, after listening to them, and in case there was any doubt, I want to make it clear that our group, like the Government, is committed to a public administration. They are saying that outsourcing produces privatization of the Administration, declines in the quality of services and destruction of employment. Well, that's not true in any of the ways. Externalisations, if any, are timely, as has been said, and do not correspond to the public service, would correspond to ancillary or complementary services. Urduliz is no less public because he has the contracted laundry. And the laundry and cleaning are very important, but the hospital in Urduliz is 100 percent public. It corresponds to a management model that is proven to work, and there are no new outsourcings. As for another shade that they always want to wear, that outsourcing diminishes quality, because no, the quality of services is not altered and is good. In Euskadi the public services are of quality, they are good, and people perceive it. In another sense, outsourcing-privatization... "There is a trend towards privatization, there is an organized plan to promote privatization, to favour the private sector." Well, that's not true. That's a manipulation, it's trying to confuse the population. This is an old debate, but that a timely outsourcing implies a privatisation, because it is not true. Osakidetza remains public, the school is public, and the city council is public if it has an outsourced cleaning service. At a time when outsourcing results in job destruction, it is obviously not true. Never, because of having outsourced some service, has there ever been a depreciation of any square. And also in this sense we are seeing lately, and we have heard it in the appearances of the councillors, who are announced different OPEs to develop throughout this legislature. This same year, 2,600 people will be incorporated into the Basque public administrations in general, from different administrations. In Education in particular, there is a OPE in progress of 818 places, and another OPE is planned for 2018. In Osakidetza, which is the largest company in this country, it is the main employer, with a structural staff of 26,000 people, in which 85% are women, in no case has there been amortisation of places in any of the professional categories, and in addition 69% of Osakidetza's budget is allocated to salaries. Speaking of OPE, four OPEs have been convened in Osakidetza over the past ten years, with a total of 7,175 places in all categories. And despite the replacement rate imposed by Madrid, stability and quality in employment are guaranteed or sought. There is a 2015 OPE with 2,014 seats in progress, and the 2016 OPE will be added to the 2017 OPE, which will make a total of 2,500 seats. And the idea is, as the counselor said, to keep doing OPE every two years, which is when they're going to work out. In addition, to meet the stability objective, the Department of Health is committed to covering temporary recruitment with interim appointments. In any case, it is clear that there is a tendency to create public employment. Conclusion: outsourcing is not privatization, the Basque public administration remains public, and there is no destruction of employment. We have therefore commented on this before, but we are not going to support this initiative or the agreed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The discussion is over and we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH have been signed by parties. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u59	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the Parlamentarian Society as made by the Parlamentary Popular EIB, is to create a power to make an integral reform of EIB. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the contract group, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potula team, has the word to present and take her off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. We have discussed EITB a lot in the last legislature, and unfortunately we have discussed EITB not for positive things. We have discussed the many problems that have been detected in the body: we have discussed the poor management in its direction, the poor management that this management makes of competent professionals that constitute the staff of EITB; we have also discussed in this Chamber on numerous occasions of the covert ERE that was made on the radio and that caused one of the first strikes in the history of the body; we have discussed the fall of hearings of EITB... Hearings, which is the only and main guide to any private media. Well, in this case, it's not. Hearings in a public environment is true that sometimes they should go into the background if the service they are offering is considered to be in the public interest. But this is not a second, nor a third, nor a fourth, but on many occasions they are not even taken into account. They have been falling month by month, until they reached quotas whose average was no more than 10 %. In four years, we've lost 24% of our audience. At the moment we are not a reference to other television offers for the Basques, not even for the Basques. The entity has just closed 2016 with the worst figures in its history, with minimum screen quotas that barely exceed, as I say, 7 %, do not reach 10, of the share of its main chain ETB2. Since 1992, when hearings began to be measured, EITB had not recorded such low screen ratings. At the moment, EITB also does not believe that it meets the objectives of linguistic normalization, of promoting Basque. ETB1 has some poor audiences, around 2%, because Basques do not feel identified with its content. In a time when most Basques, especially young people, are Basques, and yet do not connect with the chain. We discuss the institution's problems in responding to the principles of objectivity, impartiality, legitimization of our institutional framework and our framework of coexistence and democratic values. We also speak in the last parliamentary term of political, ideological bias (always on the same side, on the nationalist side), which have not only the informative, authentic government reports, but the rest of the entity's programming, whether it be programmes of tertulia, documentaries, etc. Issues of interest to Basque society are always addressed, not those that are a priority for nationalism. And sectarianism is not only on the issues, but also on how to deal with those issues. When we talk about the rest of Spain, we seem to be talking about a foreign country; yes, Euskadi is also formed by Navarre and the south of France. When it comes to Basque Members or Senators, it is always the Nationalist Members or Senators. It would seem that all Basques would like to become Basque nationalists, with a partial view of Basque society. We have also talked about the economic problems of the chain, which have always been solved with more public funds, as own advertising revenues are falling year after year. We are faced with a lack of strategic planning, with a lack of quality production of its own. The human capital that EITB brings is of an enormous quality, the professionals of EITB have an enormous quality, but the staff is absolutely not optimized, and this has led to the enormous use of producers, always the same, linked to them. A choice that in many cases does not follow principles of productivity, measured in terms of audience, but rather rather less transparent criteria. In programming we make too many copies of successful programmes from national channels, which, with honorable exceptions, are a failure, but a failure that costs us a lot to all Basques. All this, as we say in the justification, has brought with it the difficulty of adapting to the new challenges with the arrival of new channels. While other public television stations have carried out comprehensive reforms, revised their model, structure, dimension, tried to adapt to the new technological challenges, here we have gone to the fore, and the changes that have been made have been partial. Let us not forget that the law of the entity is as old as it is. We therefore believe that an in-depth debate should be opened on the principles to be promoted by EITB, on strengthening its public service character, on its organisation, on its functioning, on its modernisation, on its financing, on its increase in transparency, on greater public controls, on participation and so on. That is why, as I said, we believe that it is necessary to rethink the EITB entity; that we also talked about it in the previous legislature, which was tried, but that it was not possible to do so. We are in the first half of this parliamentary term, and we therefore believe that this is a good time for this reform to take place. We in our original initiative proposed a special commission for the reform of EITB, to reformulate the model of management, operation and public control, which would allow us to adapt to the new challenges, with reference to other models of the audiovisual landscape. Finally, we have reached a compromise amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, to which I am grateful from now on for the willingness they have had to reach this agreement, and at the first point of that amendment we have taken up the witness, as we have said before, of what we did in the previous parliamentary term. Specifically, in July 2016, it was agreed to open a debate to address the comprehensive reform of EITB in order to achieve greater efficiency in the provision of Basque public radio-television service. That debate, therefore, is what we need to continue. We also propose to reform the body to reformulate the model and adapt it to the new challenges, within the framework of a presentation created for this purpose within the EITB Commission, which can address, among other issues, the sustainability and efficiency of the body; instruments of choice, control and transparency of its governing bodies; adaptation of its offer to the new socio-linguistic reality, as well as to new changes and technological uses; changes in the organisational business model; promotion and support of the Basque audiovisual industry. Finally, we advocate a participatory methodology, taking into account not only reports that can be made or have been made by the UPV, but also all previous documents and studies. And in that presentation, the deadlines will be set for the work to be carried out. We believe, therefore, that it must be an open presentation, a presentation in which the more people are better involved; that experts, professionals of the environment participate. Where other audiovisual reference models are placed on the table. Where, as I said, we take into account studies already carried out and, if necessary, commission new studies. Taking into account the views of the workers and professionals of the environment. We believe that some of the points in Podemos' amendment may be reflected in that compromise amendment, and in relation to some of the issues that it raised, such as the audiovisual council, the social council, or the modification of the entity's own law, will be something that will have to be discussed in the paper, and that the work done in it perfectly can bring with it as conclusions the creation of those bodies or, if necessary – which will probably be essential – the amendment of the entity's law. This paper should serve to achieve a modern EITB, adapted to the new demands of citizens, transparent, publicly controlled, sustainable, bet on quality, the skills of its professionals, and directed towards their character as a public service. Looking at the whole citizenry, and not just a part of it. The aim must be to reach an agreement between all politicians so that EITB ceases to be an instrument at the service of politicians, to become a public service instrument. Two important issues, in the opinion of our group, must be deduced from that presentation. First, it is necessary to depoliticise EITB. It needs to be understood that the media cannot be at the service of a party or a government, but should be independent media at the service of all Basques. Not, as I say, at the service of nationalism or the government of turn, but at the service of the whole Basque society, and not just part of it. Secondly, it is necessary to create a model of means that can be referenced among all Basques, both for information and entertainment, and that focuses on our local sports, cultural and social offer. And a medium that enhances one of our languages, the Basque. EITB is an autonomous entity, and that is what must prevail. EITB must be more competent by local media than by national media. It is alarming and striking the detachment of Basques from the largest public body of communication in Euskadi, as I said, especially from ETB1, when seven out of ten young people are Euskaldunes. And I'm going to give you some example of why we don't think you're focusing on local content. In political disputes, the issues to be dealt with on many occasions are what happens in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate, what happens in Parliament..., cases of corruption, which obviously have to be dealt with, but never those of Euskadi, always those from outside. And, of course, if there is something that is uncomfortable for this government, that is not about it. And it should be noted that to see comments on national politics, then, Basques can have public mirror chats, First Breakfasts, Ana Rosa's Program... , who enter into competition with us. Of course, these programmes do not address the specific issues here, and that is what should be done. Another example: in ETB1, Eguraldia brings more audience than four hours of programming all together. Why? Because people are interested in the information here, about what happens in Euskadi. The fact, for example, of having football and basketball teams in each historical territory in the highest national categories does not explain that specific sports programmes are not offered, as they were previously dedicated, or that information services devote so little time to each team. And that's the programming the Basques want to see. There is nothing more to see than what the ETB1 audience often holds is the ball game. Here, in Euskadi, it is where you should focus – as we say – on the contents of EITB, and stop playing what it is not. In this presentation we want to count, as I told you, with the best specialists in the different sectors, but I am sure that many will agree that focusing on Basques and Basques, focusing on the promotion of Basques, because it is the only chain that can do it, must be one of the challenges. Because it is the Basques who finance with their taxes and who, however, as the hearings call it, do not see EITB as a means of reference in Euskadi. EITB must take advantage of that plus, that plus of issuing in Basque, that plus of talking about the issues here, the local issues, the issues of the Basques, of talking about the cultural agenda, what happens in every historical territory, what happens in every city, what happens in every town. What happens, in short, in the environment closest to each of the Basque citizens. The Basques deserve an EITB that deals with their affairs, those of interest to them, not those of interest to the management of the entity. Finally, we ask to create a paper where we can talk about all this, where we can discuss with experts what is the journalistic model we want for EITB; where we can make them see, once and for all, with solid and real arguments, that EITB cannot be a propaganda medium of the government in turn, but must be a means of communication and entertainment for all citizens, for those who vote for the PNV and for those who vote for the rest of the Basque spectrum party. Because, as we have said many times, all those, all pay with their EITB taxes. So that EITB, as I said, is a solvent chain, sustainable, transparent, compromised, language standardisation vehicle, entertaining and quality. We want to work to make that happen, because we believe that we owe it to the citizens, and because we believe that another EITB is really possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u61	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mrs. Arana is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u62	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Madam of the Parliament, at table, fellow members of the law. The truth is that we are very happy that we are here today talking about Basque public television and the need to tackle a process of comprehensive reform of it. It seems that we all agree on this idea, which is not a small one. The ones that are few, I have the impression, are the desire of some groups for that reform to come, if they really want one day to materialize. In Elkarrekin We can already defend during the electoral campaign that we want to have public media that faithfully fulfill their mission of public service, guarantee of democratic deepening and formation of informed and critical citizenship. And we anticipate it: with this theme we will give a lot of war. In any case, we are glad, as I said, that we are going to have that debate, even though we know that we are not going to agree on what are the keys to it. Because talking about independence, for example, involves doing what is necessary to make it easier, in the same way as talking about transparency, accountability or participation. The declarations of intent are very good, but they do not bring much if you do not take steps to go from words to deeds. Our group has tabled a bill with a number of concrete measures that lay the foundations for the public broadcasting model we advocate, and on which we invite the rest of the groups today to discuss without delay. We propose the following measures. Depoliticize the board of directors. We cannot talk about the independence of a board of directors that replicates the balance of Parliament's forces and gives the parties the power to use it as a weapon of political struggle. There is nothing more to see than the agreement reached this week for its renewal, which we do not share at all. We, on the other hand, propose a reduction to six in the number of persons nominated by Parliament, always respecting gender parity. Candidates for board membership shall be required to certify a recognised professional background in the field of communication and audiovisual. We also propose the creation of the social council as the governing and controlling body of EITB, made up of, of course, fifteen people from civil society entities. This council would elect three persons for the board of directors. We also believe that the participation of people who work in the public body and who must be represented on the council is important. We also propose that the director or director-general be appointed by the board of directors, who will elect, by public invitation, the director or director of the institution on the basis of his/her curriculum and the project he/she presents, from the principles of equality, merit and capacity. It shall have a qualified majority of two thirds of the members of the Management Board and, once appointed, it shall be ratified by two thirds of Parliament. Of course, the appointment must be made with criteria of professionalism, following a selective public process, of free competition and transparency to the management staff of EITB. Let us go, please, one step beyond good intentions, and begin to put on the table concrete proposals, and let us begin seriously to narrow the time limit for their debate and approval. Look, the last legislature was a missed occasion, and today we have the impression that some of the groups who are defending here the creation of a paper are not looking for that reform, but rather delaying it, gaining more time, and nothing changes. And that despite the fact that the reform of EITB is urgent and we are late. A public broadcaster that has suffered the consequences of harmful political management. We don't forget, we can't do it, we wouldn't forgive ourselves. Today it is worth remembering that EITB has suffered the only ERE in the entire Basque public sector; a shameful ERE, stained with dark interests, whose judicialization entails costs for the public coffers, without anyone having assumed any political responsibility. As you well know, we have a participatory methodology that the University of the Basque Country designed at the end of the last legislature, at the request of this House. Parliament's plenary session on 7 May 2015 already approved the creation of a special committee to lay the foundations for the reform of EITB, a committee that did not fulfil its mandate, as we have already said. It is only necessary to read what has been adopted: "The Basque Parliament will create before the end of the current session a special commission that, following the methodology of the participatory process designed by the UPV, will lay the foundations for the reform of EITB. That committee shall deliver an opinion with the conclusions before the end of the first quarter of 2016 in order to undertake the reform initiatives." You should explain here today why you did not comply with what has been agreed in this House, and to whom it is relevant to demand responsibilities. Today, like the day of the marmot, some parties repeat over and over again the defense of an EITB reform, and they will do so and do so over and over again without carrying it out. We are talking about a reform that they defend only in front of the gallery. We think it is essential to take advantage of the excellent work done by the UPV and to launch the study, whose estimated execution time would be sixteen months. Not only because of the opinion and proposals of the citizenry, but also because of the professional persons in the sector, the working persons of the EITB, and the analyses and proposals of the persons expert in the public media. Surely that work would save a lot of time and resources to the paper whose creation we are debating here today. The last legislature this House spent 60,000 euros to count on this methodology; today they want to keep it in the drawer and do it again as if they start from scratch, trying another paper to discuss what has already been discussed, reach the same non-conclusions, and postpone a few more years the reform of a media that is in crisis. Because what is at stake is whether the will to initiate a debate or reflection on the comprehensive reform of the EITB is a sincere will to facilitate the necessary legislative measures, so that the reform of the EITB, being the product of debate and reflection, is not left alone in that. In this respect, we call for a commitment from the other groups, simple to assume: to set a deadline of year and a half as the maximum duration of the presentation, and to make their work complementary to those of the UPV investigation, which is nothing more than to comply with what was agreed in the last legislature. And if not, please explain to the citizenry why it is necessary to fail to comply with what was said in the previous legislature. On the other hand, we also invite the rest of the parties to make a commitment to the reform of the EITB law, an essential reform in addressing the future model that we are beginning to discuss today. As I said before, we have already started working on this, and we would like to have the support of the majority of this House when we bring the debate on the above-mentioned bill. On the other hand, we believe that defending a new model of EITB based on efficiency, independence and transparency means agreeing to the creation of an independent body of external control, the Basque audiovisual council, for which it is essential to have a Basque communication law, which has long been demanded by the sector. Unfortunately, we note that the Government does not have the real will to set a deadline or to use the methodological design of the University of the Basque Country, which is certainly surprising, if we take into account that it was a task – I repeat – of this Parliament. We cannot go on repeating over and over again that we are in favour of a debate that lays the foundations for the reform of the EITB, praising the benefits of independence, transparency, participation and effective management, and then rejecting the instruments at our disposal to materialise concrete proposals within a reasonable period of time. We are prepared to do so before the end of this term, but apparently the willingness to do so – I repeat – is null and void on the part of some. We therefore confirm the need to urgently address the reform of the EITB, and we advocate the creation of a special commission to discuss the reform of the entity, which complies with the requirements of the design of a participatory methodology for the reform of the EITB developed by the UPV, whose work will last no more than sixteen months and which could address, inter alia, issues such as the sustainability and efficiency of the entity; the depoliticization of the entity, implementing instruments of choice, control and transparency of its governing bodies; the adaptation of its offer to the new socio-linguistic reality, as well as changes and new technological uses; also changes in the business and organizational model, the promotion and support of the Basque audiovisual industry, the role of EITB in the standardization of the Basque language, the production and processing of information, the participation of citizenship in the management of the EITB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u64	Andrea president, jaun-andreok, egun on. My partner, Michael Unzalu, who was speaking in this tribe, I want to speak in words. Today, the question is whether this Chamber thinks it necessary to rethink EIB. So we said our answer, now we socialists think we are. We believe that we need to define the public radio system services, and with what resources and examples, what audiences we address, and how we adapt the organization to the request for the present and the future. Then all the teams didn't take it that way. It seems possible 20 months later, no one avoids the need to rethink EITB. At least that's what I have to think. They seem interested and common wills. There's a shared diagnosis and a statement of proposals. Nobody seems to want to stay in a corner. Because this time it seems to be, because it wasn't like that before. This time there is a common will to make possible a substantive debate in order to obtain for EITB a second life adapted to the new needs and demands of the citizenry, that it regains its character of public service and that it is of excellence. We need EIB because we need it, and we need it in the quality and quality that separates from political occasions, and in the offering, EITB, which is concentrated. Let him bet on the powers of his professionals and be the engine of the notorious Euscal industry. A professional manager who does not lose the center of the public, with a more efficient structure, and a need for permanent to provide for society. That is exactly what the Socialists proposed two years ago. Because some of us have done things before we got here. Some of us have done things. In March 2015, modestly, we made public a reflection that led us to a shared conclusion today: an essential reform of Basque public radio and television was necessary. Because at that time the socialists stopped to think about what the path was and what the diagnosis was, and we concluded that a new model had to be made, and that we had to go beyond personalistic debates and opinions on one or other particular management. That is the reflection that we did then and that we maintain now. Then and now, we do. We therefore share, now with many more people and groups in this parliamentary seat, than in this parliamentary seat and among all the Basque parties is where the debate on the reform of Basque public radio and television takes place. It is true that in that reflection we carried out two years ago we not only said "We want an integral reform". No! No! We were also talking about concrete proposals for change that were essential or necessary for socialists and socialists. We would then suggest – I invite you to read the model we are presenting – the changes related to the organizational structure, the transparency procedures for your government and society bodies, the changes to the election procedure, the competences and characteristics of your management bodies, the professionalization of management and the creation of advisory bodies. And we spoke about them at that time because we know that a comprehensive reform, as you have also said from Elkarrekin Podemos, goes by touching certain areas on Basque public radio and television. A debate to rethink the Basque public television and radio from above will entail legislative changes, we know that. Those that have been achieved so far, such as those that have been made very punctual, have been limited, and almost unsuccessful. They were important at the time, but now they are insufficient. Those that have been tried later, which have also been partial, have not been of this character to turn up the public radio and television, with those objectives that have been said and which many of them share. Therefore, truly, as we said two years ago and we have been asking in this rostrum so far, that we have a consensus to do so, we want a comprehensive reform of Basque public radio and television. That is why, with regard to the amendments by Elkarrekin Podemos, those that he pointed out before did not mention the study of the UPV that we, the Basque Socialists, agreed with the EH Bildu group, the participatory method, and that we have also offered the transaction so that it can be taken into account, in addition to that, we can share even many of the bets that you make. Because, in our opinion, once that comprehensive rethink of EITB is made, some of its proposals, such as those we made two years ago, will have to be carried out. And many of them, as you have said, will be through legislative reforms. We have no doubt about that. The only thing we're doing... That is to say, this moment is no less than a moment after the debates that have taken place with regard to Basque public radio and television, because there was no consensus here that there should be a comprehensive reform or that such a reform should be carried out within Parliament! And let me say that in Basque politics, when events like this great consensus for reform are taking place, they are taking place in this Parliament and they are taking place with regard to a public service which I understand that all of us, regardless of our personal opinion, value and want to put into value, seems important to me. I understand that you have your precautions, we also had them at your time, but I think that agreement is worth it. And it is truly valuable, not just because of what it means, but because of everything that it has meant after what has happened on this subject, to be able to speak in these terms of an integral debate in which we can talk, I do not know whether of consensus, but of starting to speak, not of triflings and fires. It seems to me – perhaps I'm overly optimistic – something valuable. That's why we're going to dump – have no doubt –, we're going to dump ourselves in the work of that paper. You were talking about the deadlines. It is that it seems to us very important first that the groups sit down, establish the work plan taking into account, for the participatory methodology, both the study of the UPV, which is already, as well as others that could be given, and that depending on the work plan we can agree on the timetable, which obviously, because of the urgency and the need that the topic has, and by the people involved (because, as you say, in the end there are people involved), we will take it into account. We do not refuse to give speed, to implement the necessary rhythms. At least what we understand is that above the specific deadline, and with all the good will, it is that we can sit down and define the work plan, and then set a timetable that does have those rhythms that you manifested in your speech. And I also do it – you have already heard me – from understanding, even I don't know if empathy, with many of the requests and assessments they have made. In short, that EITB is still something of all Basques, and if it is still something that we have to worry about and occupy, and we want that what has not been so far can be so in the future: a reference of the plurality that exists in Basque society and an impulse of democratic values and social cohesion, a true engine of our industry, which meets with the companies of the sector to create quality content and adapted to the new technological formats, and that it does so counting on all the professionals of the house, who are great and many, those who do informative and those who stop doing the informative, and contribute what they know to the improvement of the service. That is the commitment of the Socialist Party, and with that will it has made the amendment. What was not before, there is now: there is a consensus for comprehensive reform, which was not before. As much as I'm new, I've been worried about looking at it, and that's not what we're saying again... Indeed, there was no consensus for comprehensive reform. If not, correct the people who disagreed with the comprehensive reform and now are, please. There wasn't, there is now. There is this to be done in this Parliament with all the political groups, those who were and those who have come; there is this to be done with the necessary rhythms to attend to our Basque public radio and television and to the workers who are in it, and to attend, above all, to the audience and to the citizens of Euskadi, who are waiting for this improvement of service and for us and we to do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u66	Yes, good morning, Mrs. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. I don't want to go very far, and I don't want to make history here, but because the history of the EIB is so well known in this, but I think it's necessary to place some precedents on the table. Our rehearsal is 35 years old. And I think 35 years have been productive. I'm sure it's difficult, very complicated, for those who've done it in there. It's complicated. But she's as pretty as difficult. Hard, no doubt, hard, and at the same time full of illusions. EIB was a pioneer. He had been a pioneer when he set out at 82, and had been a pioneer at other times, where he had received a change by proposing and accepting some adaptations in favour of transparency and government. I think it's important also to remark that this is public service, because it sometimes seems that we all know it, or that we all accept it, but that there are places where things are not so clearly. And I think it is necessary to say it, and even to guarantee that we are in favor of a public service. We are in the defense of a public service, a public service that is indispensable for any modern society, and more taking into account the principles that inspired its implementation. I don't think it's the resuming and rewording, or rereading, the law, the law itself of 82. It's very short, it's very simple, it has a beautiful preamble, and I think we'd all be able to subscribe to it right now. Obviously, we have a lot of work to do, but I don't think it's bad, when we want to reformulate something, go back to the beginning, go back to the beginning, and load ourselves with illusion. The preamble says: EITB must be a "fundamental means of cooperation with our own educational system and of promoting and disseminating Basque culture, bearing in mind the promotion and development of Basque culture, all this as a basis and foundation for the proper development of the rights and freedoms of citizens" (and citizens, we would now say) "of this Autonomous Community". Beraz, nik you are going to the hours of the mahai hazelnut daukaguna. Eta egia da ere hemen zerbitzu publiko hori eskatzen dugunean, gauza batzuk bermatu nahi ditugula. Eta gauza horiek era azpimarratzekoak dira. Hauek: universal access, social cohesion, diversity, not only cultural (cultural diversity, linguistic diversity, functional diversity, social diversity...), promotion and external projection of our values, of the values of our singularities, of our way of seeing the world, and also support and promotion of our own cultural industries. I therefore believe that we are talking about something that deserves the greatest respect and the greatest care. In the law which has passed, here it has been said, and I believe that you have all said it, there was quite a dispute about it here. And it's true. And some settlements were also obtained, but, alas, a committee was formed, and afterwards this committee did not succeed or profit. But I think there was a few steps here, not only in this Chamber. I'd like to have two things brought here, and I think it's important to have them at our table, and to see how useful they are to us for the debate. One. All that has been said over and over here: the arrangement. We have a deal. It's true. We have a deal. And there is this arrangement of taking advantage of the moment, and talking about the reforms of a working and constructive manner, and not following what was or how it happened to each other, but looking forward, and taking advantage of this arrangement, discussing reform and reform. But there's another key, and I think it's as important as the other one. And the other code is the contract program. We have signed the contract program, and I'd like to thank the government here, I'll be grateful to the person now chief of the department, even though the front departments signed, the Cristina U.S. and the directors signed it. And I think we ought to have that all the time on the table, because that's what gives us the scene, or gives us the atmosphere to discuss things with calm, calm, quiet, and calm. We have a programme contract, a programme contract that was signed last year, exactly one year ago, on February 9, 2016, following the discussions and almost, almost, at the same time that the famous UPV report mentioned in our compromise amendment was finally completed and presented. Contract-programme that is signed and that gives us a tranquility and a capacity to debate within a quiet scenario (which does not mean slow, but means calm) about what we want to do among all with the public entity to give us a public audiovisual service. We have that contract-program that takes us to 2019, which makes a difference with what we've had in previous years. Because, as you know perfectly well, the last contract-programme was signed in 2007, and since 2011 only annual programmes have been signed. The existence of a multi-annual programme ensures the development of the work of the institution and its professionals, as we can all imagine, in a more planned, more organized way and with much safer project forecasting coordinates. But it is also that the contract-programme sets out the description of the public service offered by EITB, the commitments it undertakes for its delivery, the activities and objectives to be fulfilled by the entity and the companies, the commitments it has also undertaken by the Basque Government in relation to financing, the mechanisms of enforcement control, also efficient financing (it advocates efficient and transparent financing, as well as maintenance and the principle of rationalisation of resources)... I therefore believe that we have two fundamental keys at the moment to address this debate: the agreement, and the contract-programme. I believe that these are two very important keys that allow us to work beyond being entangled or rooted in previous debates that we may have had in this House. It is time to start working, because, of course, the challenges before us are impressive. It is not an exclusive of EITB, it is not an exclusive that has to be reformulated, it has to face challenges, it has to work hard on reformulating and rearming. We are at a time of change, I would say we are at a time of change, at a time of inflection, but throughout the public audiovisual landscape throughout Europe, of course. I have had the opportunity to read reports recently on the state of the matter at this time, and, of course, we are not a rare opinion, nor do we have any more problems than others. We have similar problems, with our specificities, but of course we are immersed in changes that are silent and that, I insist, I think mark a turning point. And in the face of changes, in the face of changes in this stalemate, in the face of systemic changes, there are usually fears, there are usually different positions. Some are pessimistic, others are optimistic... The pessimists say that television will end, the world will end, we will no longer have television. And the optimists, among whom I tell myself, see it in terms of opportunity. They see it in terms of opportunity, because they are anchored in the values they already have, they project towards the future, and they see opportunities: abundance, flexibility, accessibility, customization of accesses... We are facing a change of era, I am convinced that we are facing a change of era in the form of dissemination and consumption of public audiovisual services. We have an exciting reform ahead of us. I, of course, believe that we have done an interesting job, trying to reach agreement with our compromise proposal. The Group of the European People's Party has joined, I think we have been very close to reaching an agreement, and I think that, beyond small nuances, we all agree to launch this paper where we will discuss in a calm and calm way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u68	Good afternoon, Chief of Parliament. Good afternoon, congressmen. Some of them, the younger ones, you must be probably grown up on the Dragonball, watching you or the Super One on TV. The average number of members of the legislature is 45-50 years old, and we, that age, television, Esañoral Un globe, dos balloons, tares, and La casa de la prader. There was nothing else. That's why we seniors remember how it was and how we lived ETB's first emission, 35 years ago. I remember, I remember, the first film that was fired, I think it was the first time. I think it was a film about slavery in America, and a boy, a stool, was talking about black and eucalyptic. And we were surprised. That was our world 35 years ago. We were proud of ETB. That our language existed what we felt at that time. The rest of the countries were homo-cold by ETV. We were in the world, too, our self-esteem increased as we who are only one of the decreased languages can feel. And ETV went on their way, producing the news language, for instance. We of the alpha-bubbles discovered a battle of eucaia, and we were accustomed to "lang," "out of play," and such words. We also started learning kitchen recipes on television... The creation of ETB was a social and cultural phenomenon. ETV changed the color of our surroundings: for instance, he painted the white balls of the Basque Country in green so that he could watch the course of the ball from the TV. Today, I believe that ball you couldn't see was ETV himself. We don't see his direction for a long time. And I'll take the words to Maddalen Irrez because you well explained what we've been through half our lives in the inquest, which we've made at ETV, and to me in Maddalen, it hurts me to say this, but EITB's model is exhausted. Our world has changed for a short time; we are not surprised to hear a black man resist, but the union is no longer foreign to us and almost all children and young men who are educated are capable of comprehension. We can change the channel from the couch for a long time, and the internet has brought the whole world to our home television set. And we can even carry this whole world on a small device like this. But, old EIB, he's old. It's no longer a social phenomenon, not a cultural phenomenon. I think, and as I hear, we all agree. We all make a diagnosis. We can hardly see the ball that leads to EITB today. Therefore, we believe that we have to paint our imagination in green, red, white, or all colours, so that we can follow that ball of ETB. But we all have to do that. This change EIB needs cannot be made here only in a locked room in the legislature. If we want the radio report to be re-entered from the windows of the shops, we need to open the doors here. Let's all discuss what we've said, politicians, but there's a lot of visual professionals, information experts, college experts and social operators. Let's build a new EITB among all of us. In 2022, he's 40 years old. Let's celebrate the anniversary that we have a large staff of communications that have been arranged for the new seasons, because it's a big team of communications. Let us feel pride as we felt at EIB's birth. We have a place to start. So many of you have mentioned in charge of this parliament that he made a methodology for EIB's reform, designed it, the University of the Basque Country. He's worked on communications, sociology, and journalism experts, and he's also hired by local and foreign college experts. The work is done, so let's take it and begin with action. We have to do everything right without drowning, but without interruption. This discussion cannot be postponed or perpetuated. And here we have sought to create a special committee in the legislature, and the reason is very simple: The special commissions have their doors open, and their shutters are closed. If we want transparency, we think the doors should open. So let's open the doors. But this is not a fighting matter. We'll all win if we re-create EITB. Because we love EIB too. We want an ITB appropriate to the times, we want an ITB in which we all feel identified, we want an ITB euskaldun, we want a large communication group that we feel proud of. At EH Bildu we want all that, because we also want EITB.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u70	Thank you again, Madam President. And it's true, now good afternoon, everyone. I will take the witness to the last sentence that Mrs Agirre has said, because we and we, from the People's Group, of course we want EITB! And I say this and make this specification because it seems that when the People's Group puts on the table certain issues that do not work well in the Government, it does not want what it is putting on the table. It's happened with the Ertzaintza, and I'm afraid there may also be some political group that has the temptation to say, "The People's Party doesn't like EITB." Of course we like EITB! What we don't like is this EITB. This EITB is the one we don't like, and we think we need to change it. And that's why... Moreover, it is true, Mrs Romero, that this was a debate that was already opened in the last parliamentary term, that it was precisely the Socialists who brought here this need for comprehensive reform of the entity, which was obviously not possible because there was no consensus at the time. But precisely because we believe that it is an important debate, that it is a debate that needs to be opened, and that it is a debate that needs to be held without haste but also without pause, that it is a debate that needs to be done as soon as possible in order for it to give time to do so, it is one of the first initiatives that we are presenting in the Register of Parliament. It is true that we also asked for a special commission, but it is also true that, at least as this group conceives the presentation, it is an open body, in which each of the groups – so we will propose when the working methodology is done – we will be able to propose a number of participants, of people we want to be told here, of professionals of the medium itself (EITB), of the entity itself, of professionals on the margins, of other audiovisual models... We want to have as much participation as possible, because, as someone here said, it is true that we have to do an important job, an intense job, but we have to do it right. Good for two fundamental issues: one, because we are talking about a public service, which as such must be understood, and second, because it is a service – and we have to take it into account – that Basques pay with their taxes, and what Basques pay with their taxes have to see it returned with a quality television, a television with which they feel enchanted, just as in those early moments that you said, Mrs Agirre, and that now that does not happen, because, as you said, the model is exhausted. I have to tell Mrs Arana that, of course, neither this Member nor our group has any intention of buying time at all. That we have not come here and presented the initiative, we have created the paper to... No, no, We want the presentation to begin as soon as possible, and we want the work to begin as soon as possible, because many of the issues that you have raised here are shared by us. I said them in my first speech. We have to optimize the workers of the entity, we have to give voice to the professionals, to the many and good professionals that there are at the moment in the entity, we have to have a professional vision of the entity, we have to have transparency... We also proposed here an initiative to make EITB more transparent, and it did not go forward. We were the only group that voted against that ERE on the board of directors. With which, it is true, many of the themes... I understand that you have just arrived, but those issues have already been dealt with here, and I in many of them fully agree with you, because this group has been demanding you for a long time. Now, I also say, we can set a deadline, but what it is about is that, if we want to make a participative presentation (that we want it to be a participative presentation), if we want all professionals to participate as much as possible, bring all the documentation that is possible, bring other models, obviously that will also take a while. That I am not saying that it happens to us as in the previous legislature, that we come to the end of the legislature and this has not had any fruit. If I, at least... Mrs Oregi, you talk about the fruitful results that EITB has had. Man, of course for certain nationalist campaigns, for the Basque Government, of course it has been fruitful, because if he had had to pay out of his own pocket many of the campaigns that have been carried out in EITB would have cost him a lot. With which, fruitful, very much. I'm just telling you one thing. The Basques know how to differentiate perfectly what is propaganda and what is information, and, as on many occasions what has been given in EITB is propaganda and not information, so even the adherents (even the adherents) end up rejecting EITB and we have the audiences we have. That's why I think we need to reformulate it. It has to be a public service of quality, for all Basques, and in which all Basques and the plurality of the sensibilities that exist in Euskadi feel represented, and not mistreated as on many occasions to which I will not now refer, but examples we had last week itself. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u71	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Arana, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u72	Well, I'm going to start by addressing Mrs. Romero, with what she said in the speech before, that I think they want to keep thinking... We want proposals to begin and to implement them. His proposals from the previous legislature, from our point of view, were vague, and I think we need to go a little deeper. We do not want only understanding and empathy, we want facts, and we would like, as I see that we are on the same page, that when our proposal for a law comes to this House, we invite you to adopt it together with us. Mrs Oregi, I thought I heard "citizens, and citizens, as we would say now." Jo! It's not a matter of fashion. It's a matter of necessity and justice, really, eh! I'm sorry, but I'm a little strict. I would like to say to you that, in addition to the calls for consensus and the general statements of good intentions, perhaps the Government should do a self-criticism exercise on the current management of EITB, at the head of which it continues to keep a Director General rejected by Parliament, something which, by the way, should also explain to us by the Socialist Party, which was one of the parties that rejected its management. A self-criticism about a model that we don't like, that fails dramatically according to the rules of the game that they have accepted: clone private generalist chains in audiovisual formats. A failed model, we say, in view of the ratings of their programmes, in view of the disinterest of citizens towards their public television, which we love, in view of the discontent of the audiovisual and cultural sector towards an entity that neither wants nor supports them. It is obvious that, with this balance sheet of results, Mrs Iturbe is not in a position to defend any success in her management, but rather to the contrary. It is therefore incomprehensible to us that the Government has no intention of relieving it. He should also reflect on the fact that he had to pay a millionaire fine to regularize the situation of the false self-employed, those professionals who had failed to comply with the law. And also one more about the so-called personal managers fingered, without a public process, transparent and free concurrence. Finally, a self-criticism wouldn't go wrong. We insist that it is essential to use the work done by UPV. As you know, the methodology has already been designed. There is nothing to define, it is simply a question of putting it into practice. If this is not done, citizens should be explained, I repeat, why 60,000 euros were allocated for the design of the participatory methodology, if there is no intention of using it. We're not going to allow it. It is very well the transaction made with the PP, but we repeat that it is not ideal. We agree, of course, with complying with the law, but we clearly say what we have already said: that the study should be done according to the design of the UPV methodology. We are not going to tire of saying this, because otherwise, apart from the waste of public money that would mean ignoring it, we would come back from scratch, which seems to be the interest of some of the groups in this House and the Government. The draft participatory methodology seeks to address the following dimensions: public service and content, governance, representation, organization and funding. We are clear that citizen participation is an indispensable, indispensable requirement for tackling this reform. Otherwise, we would be leaving the decision on a public service aside from its recipients. But it is not enough to make calls for participation, without realising how and when. We tell you again: this work is already done and defined by the UPV professionals, who tell us precisely how to do a participatory process and with what tools to do. To talk about seeking a consensus, without accepting any of our proposals, frankly seems to us to be a mess. We appreciate... well, in the end, that our position was this. I would like to tell you that, in addition to the calls for consensus and the general declarations of good intentions, perhaps the Government should exercise self-criticism... Oh, excuse me! I just got tied up. And we have already said that it is a reform that comes late, and, in addition, there is a shared diagnosis. What is the inconvenience in assuming our responsibility and committing ourselves to a concrete and consensual proposal in the year and a half? It is not a question of opening a debate, since the debate has been open for years, nor of laying the foundations for reform, but of designing and implementing it. What have you spent all this time talking about laying the groundwork for the debate while you were doing absolutely nothing? If you call it consensus that we participate in a strategy of delay and give up our commitment to citizenship, do not count on us. We are going to work, as we have been doing for months now, even if we are new, in favour of a public broadcaster that updates its model and effectively fulfils its public service mission: independent information, professionalised management, transparency, support for Basque culture, and effective action in favour of Basque. We have done so by introducing a bill with specific measures. We invite you again to discuss them at this plenary session in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u73	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u74	Yes, Mrs. Arana, there's one thing that surprises me. Because now it is all the study of the UPV and the deadline, when in his amendment he did not even know that there was the UPV document, because he did not put it, nor the deadline, because he was not interested. And when some group already told him, because he knew that it existed, because he had agreed with us, now the important thing is the UPV document, which we continue to defend and we have based it on the amendment, on the compromise that has also been offered, and when we have talked about setting, after the work plan, a strict timetable to address this reform. I mean, I don't know what... I understand you had such a concern about the UPV, a participatory process, that you did not put it in your amendment. But do not worry, because in the transaction that will be approved thanks to the groups that have agreed to agree with us, in this case with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Group, which has been the People's Party, it will be possible. Thanks to us you will take into account the working methodology of the UPV, and we will have an agile working rhythm. I say again that I share that there is going to be a change, because from the moment you turn it upside down there will have to be a new law of EITB, and also perhaps accompanied by some other law, such as that of audiovisual communication. Don't have the slightest doubt, if that's what we share! So, let's not focus on where we have different positions, except that what we don't want is consensus to care for EITB and its workers and what we want is to set fire again where there is consensus now. I'm not going into that. I insist, are you very concerned about the UPV report, which was not in the amendment? We've already picked him up. It will be the basis of the paper. Are you worried about the deadlines? We'll be careful to fix them. Don't worry, in that you will have a loyal work partner. Loyal, because what interests me is what I defended two years ago and what I defend now. With a vague document? No, no, That I am going to pass it on to you, because, as you have many concrete proposals, I am going to send you the link and so you can see all the concrete proposals and study it, and so you do not tell me the next time that it is vague. Because when we do things wrong we have the ability to do self-criticism (I first, and you will see it here in this rostrum), but when we have tried not to know if the best, but we have tried to do them well, we must also say so. Then I will pass it to you, because then you will tell me in the paper, if you are, that you share many of the proposals, or that you are willing to study many of the proposals we make. And the same goes for EH Bildu. I don't understand what our difference is in this case. I don't understand our difference. I am not a professional of EITB, I do not have the double vision, but I think I share your speech, just as you largely share the agreement that we are going to put to the vote today, as they did in the previous parliamentary term. Because we don't get hurt when we say when someone's been at work and when they haven't been. And EH Bildu was in that job, as we were, to ask for a comprehensive reform and ask for it in that way. That's what we offer. We open the doors – we don't close them – to consensus, despite everything. There is a tremendous space, and people are waiting for political responses to what is left to politicians and politicians, after listening to the social actors and the people involved. But only if we and we do, after the work of the paper, a reform law accompanied or not by an audiovisual communication law, will we be doing our job. As long as we keep lighting fires instead of making decisions, then we will be frustrating people once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u76	Yes, good morning again. Well, I'd insist on the arrangement, really. And from now on, we'll have to work on that form we're going to form, and I think we all agree. And that's how I feel about what we've been talking about these days. And I'm proud of ETB, Mrs. Llanos. I didn't mean... When I say that ETB has achieved great things and that it is a referent, and that it has... I was talking about thirty-five years of history, and I added to many of the comments made by Mrs Agirre from EH Bildu, from the heart of those who knew the start of the ETB, in my case as a spectator somewhere where the signal came, and it was a great illusion for us. I feel that pride, as I say. I think it is also important to thank the entity's professionals, who every day make ETB possible and that every day we are listening to the radio, watching television, attending from the digital media that we now have at our disposal. And I think that at this point there is something that we need to take into account, and that we need to be cautious: I think we need to be able to separate the day-to-day debate from our public body, from our public radio and television. For everyone's sake. I think it is important that we mark a difference between the debate that we have in the paper, a debate that should mark that comprehensive reform, a debate that should lead us to an analysis of all the issues (from the legal framework, Mrs Arana, from governance, from the improvement of the different issues, from content efficiency, etc.)..., all this must be separated from day to day. We cannot be questioning every day the professionalism, the ability to work, the work of professionals who go out on the air every day, every day they go out on the screen and they have to carry out their work as smoothly as possible, as I said before. And, Mrs Arana, it is difficult to justify a no when the agreement or transaction that we have agreed between three groups is practically the same as you have been defending, with some small shade. You wanted today in plenary to mark a temporary space, a framework of months, which began in one figure, followed in another, and could have evolved to another, when we do not have enough data and necessary to mark what that space of time should be, when we do not yet have an approved methodology. It is true that we have a methodology put on the table by the UPV, but that at no time – because the legislature ended – it was presented, heard, debated, analysed and given for good by the groups in this House. I think that's a fundamental tool. If we set in motion a work space, in whatever field, we must establish a methodology, and, together with the methodology, a timetable for action, but that is what we have to do in an agreement between all of us. We are in a parliament, we are many political forces, and we must do so in agreement with all, and not as you think we have to. Your opinion is fine, but there are others too. And I'd like to finish with a little reference, if I may be allowed a license. This week we celebrated – some member of this House has highlighted it on social media – World Radio Day, and the director general of Unesco, Irina Bokova, made a manifesto, as she usually does, and is very nice. I read you three little sentences alone, because I change "radio" for "EITB" and I keep your speech. With your permission: "We have a revolution as to how we share the information and access it. In this turbulent era, radio is a solid platform for bringing communities together, a force at the service of human rights and dignity, and a powerful factor in finding solutions to the problems facing societies. To do this, it is necessary to renew everyone's commitment to radio." Let us renew our full commitment to EITB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u78	Well, in part. To Mrs Llanos: we do not question her love for EITB in any way. You can be quiet. What surprises us a little is how you have joined the two parties of the Government and how you have not wanted to spell out a little more what the methodology is going to be and what the deadlines are going to be to apply that methodology, because it makes us afraid that this will be another lost legislature. That's what worries us. Mrs Romero did not understand us, and we do not understand why the Socialist Party, which until a few months ago advocated the creation of a special committee (that, that of the open doors), now defends the creation of a paper. No more. We have tried to reach a consensus until the last minute, and today would have been a very nice opportunity to take a firm step on the subject of methodology and deadlines. It couldn't have been, and that's why we're going to abstain. We think this discussion is a debate for time. EIB is a giant and needs his time, but we're afraid this won't last.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u80	We don't think we can sleep on this. We want a real change. We can't make a make-up, we want a reform made of courage and ambition. That's what we want. We must again determine what we are and who we are, but with ambition to place our people again in the world. We have the exact propositions for EIB and in that discussion we will put them on the table. First, EITB's company structure has to be modified, today, rationalized. I know about the Gestor's operating system, but the parallel system of business posts at EIB must be abandoned as an external agency outside the agreement, and we must also decide how many of the workers need to make a quality radio studio. EIB is to invest EIB in the visual industry of audible euskals, making terms with the sector companies for fixed deadlines, so that they may be protected for long-term protection. EITB was created for the normalization of language 35 years ago and today, 2017, and we shall have these ends on the axis again, which is the essence of its character. The Euskara chain will have the priority and the media, the radio or TV, it's gonna get you all wetted up on those chains. We need quality programming, bold, adapted to new times, entertaining and original content, a programming that will extend our language, our culture and identity. The news hurts me too to tell you this, and I know that some of you agree with you, but news can't depend on the government at the moment. People who are near, critics, good people, ought to be elegant news. If we want to prepare EIB, let EITB take possession of itself. The world has changed around us and us. EIB's old, she doesn't know how to adapt to the new seasons, even though we know it's not easy. Euskana and escala were created to extend the culture, and today it does not fulfil that function. The news has lost its prestige. EIB is in a state of collapse, and it's all our responsibility to re-establish strength. If EIB's healthy, the entire hold of euscal communications will also be strong. Let's paint our imagination with color Let's get to work We are ready, and, as we see here, it is sufficiently agreed, and I think it has been plain, because we all love EIB.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Populars, Eukal Sociists, and the middle-class correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u82	So we have accepted the half-path correction. I interrupt the entire meeting until 1:30 p.m. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u83	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary band made, in the direction of a model of our own safety, concerning the whole retreat of the Spanish police force. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Mr. Azuga, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. This point today or this afternoon will require the entire withdrawal of the Spanish police and military forces. In 2013 this lawman demanded, and we are to this day to renew this idea. Six arguments for this discussion, I'll give six reasons. The first because of the past gravity. Because of the waters of human rights caused by the Spanish Security Forces, the pain, suffering, movement, the movement of the people, the laborers, the students, the political movements that the Civil Guard has caused. We think that we must, in all its intensity, clearly explain, assert, observe, and, as it continues without observation, mark our first purpose. I couldn't help remarking this to the past, but today I don't want to stay in the past, but I want to project it to the future. Second, by the police faulty ratios. Let's make numbers. Five years ago alone in these three provinces we had around 8,000 ertzainas, 3,500 municipal police, 3,000 civilian guards, 1,500 national police: a total of 16,000 troops. To this day, we have 7,000 ertzainas, 3,500 municipal police, 2,370 civilian guards and 1,381 national police: in total, 14,251. There's been a remarkable decline. As far as we are concerned, there has been a decrease of 32.1% in the number of civilian guards and 9.6% in the number of national police officers. We consider it a good fact, a trend that we consider positive, and that we also believe that it should be deepened to the end. Five years ago we had 7.3 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants in this population of 2,166,000, and today in Basque territory we have 6.5 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. I say again, an interesting decline. We have improved, but we consider that little, compared to those European ratios that advise us two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. We are certainly still very far away. In Belgium the ratio is 3.7 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, in Germany 2.9 in Ireland 2.6, and Finland or Sweden reach even 1.4 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. According to that European ratio council of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, we should be here, with our population, around 4,332 police officers. It is not an approach that I intend to come to immediately; I simply make numbers, I establish what should be the right trend towards where we should look, and not precisely, as some statements seem to lead us, to the absolutely opposite direction. Third, because before these ratios we have to decide what is indispensible, because we and we pay for it. De Andrés, the Spanish deputy, has asked for more police. He didn't say for what purpose, but he didn't say who's going to pay for it. Let's see the expense of our security. According to the security budget, 2016, there's been a $633 million budget. Look at the budget of the townships, according to an sterilization, we have a expenditure of 280 million dollars. The Spanish police charge would be over 400 million dollars. In total, we pay $1,300 million in security. We are paying our national Basques for the amount, whether directly or by the cave we have to pay the Spanish State. We find this budget intolerable. When De Andrés asks for more civil or Spanish guards, he makes "spoiled" in a way, especially because he makes a request that we will pay for. When he asks for more cops, he asks for fewer teachers, less doctors or less social services, because the budget isn't infinite. In short, when De Andrés asks for more civil guards or national police officers, he says, "You'll pay the police who don't want it." Fourth. On account of the objective safety obligation we have. Last week, the Fiscal General Juan Calpar, the Basque Prosecutor, was here in this house, and he said to us, "This has been the country of Europe where there's been a considerable number of police in the town." Since the situation and the circumstances have changed, Calpar Field planned us, he concluded that it would be most logical to reduce the number of police. Moreover, he brought us another important element in this scene, saying that we have fewer crimes in these three provinces. Again, a good news. We should adjust the number of cops to that rate. Asked who's doing the work of the law enforcement police, he said it's the edge of police. This leads us to the distractions. The Spanish Security Forces don't fill any papers as a judicial police officer. By the state, it is of no importance to maintain a public order. Nevertheless, they continue with their presence, acting in no way their own, filling their own jurisdictions which are not theirs. Five. Because of its lack of statutory and therefore regulatory lace. Yesterday we learned, from information given by the Security Council, that the State Security Forces have put 1,754 roadblocks in the last year. There are exactly 1,754 roadside controls more than they have the competence to put in. True they are less than other years (newly a decreasing rate), but our aspiration is that as soon as these controls reach the zero number. Beltran de Heredia told us in the commission: "It is true that there are situations in which we understand, and we have denounced it, that there is a competitive invasion by the State Security Forces." In agreement with that, we believe that the Security Statute is, on equal terms, unfulfilled and obsolete. Unfulfilled by this invasion expressed by the councilwoman herself, and obsolete because I believe that it is mostly the demand that even these residual powers contained in the Statute for the State Security Forces and Bodies should be exercised by Basque police. Because I believe that the aspiration is broad that we and we can organize (we can reorganize) the security needs of this country, on the basis of our resources, on the basis of our needs, on the basis of our budget, on the basis of the objective crime rates we have, and on the basis of our history. On the basis, in the end, of what we believe from EH Bildu to be ours as a people that aspires to sovereignty also in the field of security. Sixth and last. For historical claim. We are celebrating the 80th anniversary of transcendental events, among them also the creation of that Ertzaina: Telesforo Monzón, then governor, decreed the dissolution of the Civil Guard and the Assault Guard, and created the Ertzaina to assume all its competences. The Ertzaina as a "substitution police" is thus entitled in the Encyclopedic Dictionary Auñamendi. That's the idea we're looking for today because it's like an inspirational, not a police marshal, but because we want a cop representing it. Today, the idea, the inspiration, we want it back. "Esquilas in the plural turbá, the edge, the police, the police, should be replaced by the Spanish police." I've given six reasons. I think enough to justify our initiation. I'd like to make a couple of comments from the various teams and from the middle line that came at the last moment. In 2013 we tried two concepts in this legislature. The one was "suitation," the second "reparation." At this point, in the middle, these previous positions have changed. The position before the PSE somehow climbed a level to ask for adaptation. I think it must be considered a step forward to reach this point now. But EAJ came down from his previous position. The Replice was explicitly applied to the initiation of 2013, and we must consider that in Beltrán de Heedia, in the position he did at the Security Committee, he had used the word "replice" three times as the purpose of the government. I'd like to think that EAJ doesn't want to get out of Beltán de Heredia in some way and I'd like to hear the words that come about it. We proposed to him to replace it, and to "refuse" instead of it, or "relegation." But you didn't want to. If you had two points in your position, I would at least approve of them. One was the National Police and Civil Guard to fulfill their daily rights to the Borders, that's what you were asking for. That these hands are considered in some way realistic, in a second stage, you were asked to be filled by the local cops. And besides, you also asked for an operation. I suppose those two intentions or the two ideas have disappeared from the text you just signed. I guess the middle cut out a lot, except for those two ideas. We think that some one must continue in this legislature demanding, clearly and distinctly, a withdrawal or a submission until the end. That's why we're gonna keep him in front of our original position and the media that we're bringing him here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u86	Mrs. President, parliamentary, good noon to everyone. Gaur, Arzuaga jauna has to drink police interbentek egindako urraketei buruz hitz egiten. It had begun its intervention on human rights violations committed by members of the security forces. Once again, from Elkarrekin We believe that, in addition to the issue itself that brings us to this debate, it overwhelms more than adapting the different police ratios to the real security needs, it also overwhelms a dispute over the story. Once again, that story that is so much discussed in plenary. Why? Because we believe that it is also a way to raise once again a debate on the responsibility of those forces and security forces in relation to abuses and torture, which, of course, are absolutely condemnable. But we also believe that it is a kind of excuse to continue making speeches of our own and of our own consumption and in front of the gallery. That is why it is a strategy that we sometimes think is a little far away, and the agreement this time has been implemented in another way. However, as I do not want to spend much time dealing with this issue and what we are focusing on today is the reduction and adaptation of the State Security Forces, so I am going to get into that issue and not get into that battle by the story. Let us indeed talk about how to adapt the number of security forces in the Basque Country and do so in terms of the distribution of competences between the different administrations and according to the real needs of Basque society. In this regard, we tabled an amendment to the proposal in its entirety, with three points which consisted, in summary, of calling for the reduction in the number of officers of the National Police and the Civil Guard, because we already have a police force of its own and integral that is that of the Ertzaintza; that this reduction is framed in a plan of the Department of Security of the Basque Government to adjust the police ratios to the real social needs, and also agreeing on these issues within the framework of the Security Board, in which both the Basque Government and the central Government are represented. And, as we mentioned earlier, we raised these issues in terms of competence sharing, rationalizing the dimension of the police forces, and doing so in accordance with the law and the institutional spaces in which this issue should be addressed. Approaching these keys allows us to reach agreements. In this case, we have been able and have been able to reach a majority agreement with the PNV and the Socialist Party, in which, while it is true that a number of terms of our original amendment are being reduced, we do not give up any further calling for a plan, which should be approved by this Parliament, for the adequacy and reduction of these security bodies and the transfer of competence that must be given in those spaces. However, we have negotiated a text that broadly follows the same logic of the amendment that we put forward: to talk about competences, to talk about rationalizing the dimension of these police forces, and to do so in accordance with the law, whether the Statute or the agreement of 13 March 1989 on the delimitation of services between the State Security Forces and the Basque Autonomous Police in the CAV. In the agreement that we have reached with PNV and PSE, another important aspect has been introduced, which we do consider important, which was the defence of Ertzaintza in the face of the constant questioning from the central government of both its competences and its consideration of integral police, which we aspire to at some point to be a broad integrated police approach, or its participation in European security strategies, and even more so in the current context. We certainly defend all these aspects. In conclusion, I would simply like to highlight a possibility that we see today as real, and it is nothing other than the ability of the political forces of this House to reach agreements on sensitive issues, even complex ones like this. And in this matter, and in others also linked to memory and coexistence in this country, without renouncing our role of democratic and social demand or of fierce opposition, Elkarrekin Podemos has a clear constructive vocation to reach agreements, and in this we will strive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u87	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u88	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Arzuaga, I believe the best of your initiative is that you present it. I think the best of his initiative is that if those who have truly been at the side of the cause of pain and bitterness, today, who feel suffering the consequences of that pain and bitterness, with the presence of a number of police, civilian guards and police in general significantly higher than what this country would really need if it had lived through the whole democratic stage defending and respecting human rights, if you had done that, we would not actually have those police ratios per population at the moment. And it is reasonable that you, who have created the problem, that you, who have been close to the problem, who have sheltered the problem, it is reasonable that you now ask the police to be adequate to the number of inhabitants and also to the functions they have. In fact, in Euskadi there has been a lot of pain and bitterness, which have not been created by the State Security Forces and Bodies, they have been created by the ETA terrorists, those terrorists that you still don't condemn, and for this you invent a PNL in which the explanatory statement is a complete huddle, because you invent a country, trying to confuse the political with the cultural, because you invent a population, you also invent police numbers, and you end up involving it all in that conflict to which you allude, which does not exist because there has never been a conflict. There has been ETA terrorism, but since you are not willing to condemn it and are not willing to say that killing was wrong and that there was no justification for doing so, it logically gives you a certain poetry that tries to seek a certain epic, which is nothing more than hiding the actions of terrorists and what they have done, which has been terrorism. Therefore, his statement of motives is a hunch, and his operative part is still much more so, because when one starts badly, when one starts with unreality, when one invents the stage, then, begins by saying at the first point of his disposition that the Police, the Civil Guard and the Army go away, but he does not even say from where, and also includes the Army, although then here he has made no mention. Then he says that it is done for the brave, that it is done unilaterally, that it is done only from Euskadi, and finally he says – in a gesture I suppose that of openness to those who have other competences – well, ultimately, that they are going to consensus. Look, we're looking at the adequacy of the State Security Forces and Corpses. And, by the way, that is not an invented term, it is a term agreed by a Government of Spain, by a Ministry of the Interior and by a Basque Government, by a Security Council. It is therefore the term that both parties considered reasonable in their day to try, through the Security Board, to pursue that expression. We agree with the adequacy of the police, and we agree that there are indeed other times, because there is another political climate, because there is legal coverage, because there is a police force that can assume an integral police behaviour, because there are other demands for action that are also within the European framework, that must also be brought closer to them, and because it is reasonable that the number of police officers, that the Security Forces and Bodies that are in the Basque Country as a whole, should be in a reasonable proportion to what they can be in other places that have lived in freedom and democracy, that have lived in defence and respect for human rights, which has not happened here, and therefore, to the extent that we are moving here, we really need to try to get closer and to get to it. But that has to be done rigorously, it has to be done well. And you do not propose that it be done rigorously, although I also see that you have then lowered the tone and have been trying to soften and have been trying to find some common place in the compromise proposal with which you have subsequently worked. It seems to me good that there can be a more reasonable and measured approach; although it has started frankly wrong, but it seems to me good that there can be a more reasonable and measured approach. Now, I don't know if there's a conflict of accounts here, but, of course, you're not going to impose the false account and the lie account of what really happened here. If you still do not have the courage and democratic conviction to condemn ETA terrorism, that is your problem. I do, and to condemn absolutely all violent attitudes. And in that scenario it is in that scenario that the State Security Forces and Corpses have been and the Basques themselves, and that is why there are many civilian guards killed, that is why there are many national police killed, and that is why there are also ertzainas killed, whom you now seem to want to discredit, to pursue and to place not at the service of the security of Basque citizens, but rather at the service of the violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Well, they'll have to do the transit, they'll have to do it sometime. We will try to lay, from reason and from rigour, the foundations for such a transit. But of course the procedure will be with an adequacy, it will be on a Security Board, it will be with the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Council. It'll be talking, it'll be elbowed with elbows and elbows... Indeed, at this point in life, part of that activity of civil servants of public administrations, of common territory and Basques, must be prevented from being in a field of duplication, from being in a field of disputes concerning the development of competition, or from being able to gain access to competences which are indeed established in the Statute of Gernika. Of course we claim and demand – we are doing so – that the Statute of Gernika is complied with in its entirety, and we are demanding that everything we have proposed be reviewed. But, indeed, that must be done as it is done in democratic societies. It's done civilizedly. It will never be done with the "let's go." It will be done civilizedly, it will be done institutionally, it will be done with rigour and political reason. And this is what you lack everywhere. Therefore, we have made a compromise that has been made with Podemos, starting from an amendment that we and the Basque Nationalist Party had, and starting from an amendment that we also had Podemos. I believe that the fundamental contribution is that there is also a temporality to this work. Indeed, it is right for Parliament to tell the Security Board to meet and to try, within a reasonable period of one year, to move forward on criteria for the adequacy of the State Security Forces and Bodies to what their powers are and what their self-defence of interests is. Because here there is an activity that depends on the Government of Spain, here there are competences that depend on the Government of Spain, here there is security that depends on the Government of Spain, and it is reasonable that in the ports, in the airports, on the coasts, in a number of competences that are of the State, there is a security of the State. But it is also true that the Autonomous Police, the Ertzaintza, already has reasons, reasons, time and experience to become greater, to have more competences, so that those that it has are respected, so that the templates can be repositioned to the extent that they are necessary, in the objective that in its day it was agreed what is the number of ertzainas that has to be in the Basque Country. I would appeal to that reason and rigour also to be served by the Government of Spain, also to be served by the People's Party, it will not be that... Sometimes, what is impossible for months and months and months and years turns out that in twenty-four hours it begins to be possible, because somewhere, to make a political decision, the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party are needed, and at that moment comes the miracle of negotiation and many resources are arranged, many conundrums are arranged, and once again, at times, the thread of arguments is shown to be holding that on the dry dock. So, here we all have to do something, we all have to get to work. All groups are necessary to make this transit in which so many lives have been lost in this country, so much has been killed, there has been so much fear and so much insecurity, and that is why it is necessary to strengthen that security. At the moment, fortunately, and thanks to the resistance of the Democrats, there is another time, and that time also has to be manifested in security policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u89	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u90	Mrs. President, thank you. Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. At least it's hopeless to discuss the adaptation of the state security forces. Desperate, not to say he insults our self-portrait. We have made it in the foregoing legislation, and in the majority, by agreement, to demand the security forces of the state to accommodate themselves to the narrow sphere of their jurisdiction. Today, after the years, the threat of which has vanished and has no conversation with the Home Office, we are again doing it. We do and we will, unfortunately, because none of these demands have been ignored, because things remain exactly the same, and that we will never be tired of proclaiming the integrated nature of the border. We only demand one thing: Keeping the Guernica State, fulfilling the law. Civil Guard, National Police, and Bordering jurisdictions are very clear, and are very well defined on the 17th of the State of Guernica. in the article. I won't read it, don't worry, but somebody would be okay. The state is an organic law and receives these functions. Borders are almost 90% of their rights and the only remaining rights left to the state Security Force are those that are outside or above the community. Bordering is the headline of all police functions, of all: prevention, the safety of the people, the investigation of organized crimes, the continuation of delictive activities... The core of all functions is the edge, clear and clear. Thus, as the border has been developed by the police of their own and the whole force, they have diminished the functions given to the Civil Guard and the National Police. It must be remembered that the agreements obtained in the Security Committee in 1989 and 1990 limited the services of either of them and others. nay, they defined the criteria for this reformation. As for the Organic Law of State Security, it is said in the agreement that this legal frame has enabled the development of the Euscal Police. At the same time, it's supposed to be the condition of state security forces. As the agreement was added, this adaptation leads to slowly supplanting him. It's been a while, but it's been 27 years. That's what the Basque and Spanish Government says about the deal signed in 1990. Still, it's clear Madrid doesn't consider the agreements he made. We have an engagement with the word promised and signed documents. Today we demand a question of legality: the process of adapting the number of troops to the tasks entrusted is a question of legality, a question of respect for the rules, the agreements and the legal order; of respect for the Ertzaintza, of defending the competitive framework of self-government agreed and endorsed by Basque citizens. Some try, once again, to avoid committing themselves to the defence and full compliance with the Gernika Statute. They are ultimately trying to avoid enforcing the law. The current situation has no justification. The Ertzaintza is deployed, and has assumed virtually all the police functions. There is no justification for the limited variation in the number of members of the Civil Guard and National Police in these circumstances. Less justification, if any, when ETA activity has disappeared. This was one of the first activities or competencies of this police force. More than five years have passed since ETA announced the final cessation of its proceedings, and the Spanish Government intends to pretend that nothing has happened. But it's happened, and a lot. The Spanish Government does not want to address this new reality, and refuses to comply with the law. The Spanish Government does not listen to the positions of the Basque institutions, does not respond to the requests of the Security Adviser, does not convene the Security Board. Do you know when the last meeting of the Security Board was held? In July 2012. The entire previous legislature, without convening the board once. No dialogue, no respect. They do not want to sit down and negotiate, they do not respond to the sites of the Basque Government. This deliberate distancing is serious, but the underlying strategy is more serious, because the Spanish Government continues to obstruct the full development of the Ertzaintza. It is more serious because the Spanish Government continues to block the generational renewal of the Ertzaintza, continues to take the courts to the latest promotions. Today we again denounce a centralizing strategy, contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Statute, contrary to Basque self-government, contrary to Basque institutions; contrary, therefore, to the law they claim to defend. The endowment of 8,000 agents is a pact, a pact!, it is neither a whim nor a particular desire of anyone. It is the strength that the Security Board agreed to ensure security in Euskadi. In this Parliament we defend and respect the Statute of Autonomy, we defend and respect Ertzaintza as an integral police force, we defend and respect institutional arrangements. The Spanish Government breached the pact, breached its word, breached the law, and allowed to question an agreement signed to guarantee security. You don't keep the word given. The Spanish Ministry of the Interior has declared itself inconclusive. I refer to the facts. According to data provided by the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Security of the Basque Government, in Euskadi we have 7,839 ertzainas (254 of which, of the 25 promotion, are now in practice and pending a judicial resolution), 2,370 civilian guards, 1,381 national police, and about 3,000 officers of the different local police. We have the highest ratio of agents per person in Europe: in Euskadi we have almost seven agents per 1,000 inhabitants, twice the proportion corresponding to the states of the European Union: with 2.9 Germany; 3.9 France; 2.6 in Ireland... In Euskadi, however, almost seven. The legal forecast was clear and logical: in a scenario without ETA, with crime falling year by year, the ratio of agents should be adjusted to the European average. And the Spanish Government is failing to do so. In view of this data, in view of the new reality, it is obliged to comply with the legal provision and to adjust the number and functions of the security forces in Euskadi. There is no reason to justify maintaining the disproportionate number of troops at present. ETA terrorism is fortunately part of our past, the security needs that Basque society perceives and demands move in other parameters, and the parties signing the transactional amendment share that Ertzaintza is an integral police force, and that is what we want to defend with our amendment. Let us therefore act accordingly. Let us stop questioning through the resource the generational renewal of the Ertzaintza, and adapt security to logical, rational and consensual criteria, in accordance with the new reality we live in. The Spanish Government's refusal to convene the Security Board after almost five years is incomprehensible. We demand a radical change of attitude, we demand that the Spanish Government resume the path of institutional dialogue, which should never have been abandoned, and less in the area of public security. We demand interview from the Spanish Government, we ask that the law be fulfilled. We're talking about legitity. The process of adapting security forces and Kidegos is a matter of respect: respect the rules, respect the agreements, and respect the bordering itself. The edge is an integrated police officer, and if we agree to it, let's do as follows: Let us leave the means of resource and work to accommodate security to new times. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The team that hasn't run any corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u92	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Madam President. The other day, with regard to the debate on an initiative brought by Mr Semper on measures to prevent our young Basques from seeing as normal what is not, the tributes to terrorists, we were blamed by the People's Party for repeating these debates in this House, right? And it also seemed at that time that the problem was not that those acts that had been experienced in some Guatemalan institutes were a failure of all in the policy of delegitimization of terrorism. No, no, The problem seemed to be that we brought "that kind" of debate to this House, it was to reiterate "that kind" of debate on terrorism in that House. Well, there are others who bring matters to this House, such as Mr Arzuaga, who make it the real day of the marmot. Because, really, how many times have we talked about "the retreat"! That now I will refer to what some understand by withdrawal. Here the withdrawal of the Civil Guard, the State Security Forces and Bodies has been requested, and now what is requested is the total withdrawal of the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Spanish Army, and I suppose of all the security guards who do not have a certain label, right? It is further stated that withdrawal planning will be developed by the Department of Safety and Security and discussed in this Parliament. The Ministry of the Interior, through the Security Board, is left, if any, to implement this withdrawal. The justification, apart from the first shameful part to which I shall then refer, arises from an economic point of view and from a political point of view. From an economic point of view, we want to see the huge expenditure that, according to the proponents, involves maintaining the State Security Forces in Euskadi. Nothing is said about the huge expenditure that has been suffering for so long for this land... and spending not only on economics, but spending on staff, on people, and on suffering. But good. From a political point of view, the powers of the National Police and the Civil Guard are said to be residual. By the way, that is true that it is not your exclusive, Mr Arzuaga; the counselor herself has also said so. And that on the basis of this they don't have to be here. I have said this on other occasions and I repeat: the National Police and the Civil Guard are here in their own right, because they have competences recognized by the legal system. And the precepts that give legal cover for the presence of the State Security Forces and Bodies have already been heard here: the Constitution in its article 104; the Organic Law 2/86, of the State Security Forces and Bodies, articles 1 and 3; the Statute of Gernika, article 17.6, and finally the Agreement of 13 March 1989 on the delimitation of services between the State Security Forces and Bodies and the Basque Autonomous Police. Legally, therefore, the work that these bodies do in Euskadi is fully covered. They have competence, among other things, in border control, in the intervention of weapons and explosives, in the surveillance of ports and airports, in supra-Community investigations, in the fight against terrorism, in issuing identity documents, passports, etc. It should be noted, as you have also said here, Mr Arzuaga, that the National Police and the Civil Guard have seen their numbers reduced in our community, as in the rest of Spain. But let's not be fooled. The request goes far beyond the readjustment, as some have called it. A request, as I said before, to join the counselor, that her first intervention, her first appearance, as in the previous legislature, dedicated her to making a section, a special chapter on the retreat. But on this occasion it went beyond and joined what is being asked here today: total withdrawal. Because that's the only way you can understand it when you talked about exclusive police. Although later, and before questions from this group about whether that was what the agreement contained with the Socialist Party of Euskadi contained, in order not to make more evident the role of guest of stone that on many occasions you, socialist gentlemen, tried to offer us a kind of etymology, giving us a version of what must be understood as "exclusive police" and making it synonymous with "integral". But I tell you what's exclusive now, according to the dictionary. Exclusive: "Unique, alone, excluding anyone else." I mean, there's the National Police and there's the Civil Guard. Moreover, in an interview in a media outlet, which has no waste, it was also pointed out that the powers of the Police and the Civil Guard are residual. And yesterday he repeated it too. And I ask you: Is it residual to control almost 31 million explosives in the past year?; Is it residual to intervene and stop almost a dozen organized crime groups, in operations such as Itsasontzi, Marcote or Superflaco?; in crimes of international trafficking in cocaine or speed, is it residual to seize more than 1,100 kilos of drugs?; Is the fight against jihadist terrorism residual?; Is the arrest made yesterday residual, or not? Of course, these arrests do not have to cause "alarm", because behind there is no "organized structure" that makes "suspect" that will produce an "imminent action". Statements that have been censored by the agents themselves. But, whether they are residual or not, at the origin of this claim it is not necessary to seek the character of its competences, not an economic issue, not even an adjustment of the forces. No, no, The origin has to be sought in this nationalist claim that the State Security Forces and Corpses must leave Euskadi, in the "Alde hemendik" always. That's the only justification. Both the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu have shared much of the justification here today. Because it's true that ETA... Not his performances, Mr.Iturrate (who did not perform theatrical performances, no); his murders are what has ceased a while ago. It is true that armed activity has ceased, but it has not dissolved. But it is also that the presence of the Civil Guard and the National Police here is not exclusively justified by the existence of ETA. But it has also been shameful that you have given the first reason for the grievances of the Civil Guard's past to ask them to leave. Woe to those who have suffered the Civil Guard, in the form of murders, coercion and threats that you have not yet condemned! Anyone who read the justification for this proposal, or who heard any of the parts you have said here, Mr Arzuaga, could not form an idea of what has happened in Euskadi. On other occasions you have spoken of "armed activity". As I have told you on other occasions, they are masters of language manipulation, and with this they intend to lower the actions of ETA. In the text they speak of the "context of armed conflict that we have experienced in Euskadi", and that "it has multiplied the presence of the Spanish and French armed forces in this country". It was not an armed conflict, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu. It wasn't an armed conflict, Mr. Arzuaga. What ETA has done in this country has a very clear name, and I will tell you this: it was terrorism, te-ro-ris-mo, which you still do not condemn. There weren't two sides here. There was no terrorist side – according to you, the liberator of the Basque people – and the side of the Civil Guard, the National Police and the Ertzaintza, against which the liberator side fought because it constrained the freedoms of the Basque people and those who were fighting for it. No, no, As I tell you, what was here was a terrorist gang. Reading your initiative doesn't seem like we live in the same place, Mr. Arzuaga. You say, and you have also mentioned here today, that "they continue to daily restrict the fundamental rights of citizens"! What rights do they constrain? It will be those of the criminals, it will be those of the traffickers when they seize the drugs or the weapons, or the jihadists who stop! Of course, let me stop at a check-up, do not restrict my rights and freedoms, because it is done for security, not whimsical. But you in that operative part – and then you've said it here – don't even talk about retreating, although then here you've wanted to keep the retreat. No, no, You're talking about to-tal withdrawal. And, as I was saying, it's also going to be decided here. Then we'll give a little word to the Ministry of the Interior, but more than anything to put the truce in the cake. But not much more, eh! And in those terms went Podemos' amendment, although it is true that they spoke of decrease. And the amendment to the PNV and the PSE, in its points 1 and 3, comes to say adequacy. Mr Prieto, as you have been more comfortable with "adequate", but what you are asking is the same: the re-ply-gue. And adequacy, following the word, you have said that it is up to the Security Board to decide. Well, you're moving on a little bit more. Others say no, that has to be said here. But adequacy in how many? How many national police and civilian guards have to go, Mr Prieto, from Euskadi for socialists to consider the number to be adequate? For the Group of the European People's Party, I tell you clearly. Functions? The ones they have recognized in the laws. Number? Sufficient to carry out these functions, which will be decided by the Ministry of the Interior, which has the responsibility, and will speak on the Security Board with the autonomous officials. And from here the recognition and gratitude to the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Ertzaintza for their work in defense of the freedom and rights of all Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u93	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Senor Prinet, I thought that it was me that was una spermie de trayecto. There was no such thing as the lack of the absolute de rigor y terminaba. Then I won't take it badly, because you've made a career as well. You used to run the state police team once, and that's all. And today, at least, you've passed to another position, some kind of adaptation. And I think you're doing all right on that route, too. I gave you six arguments today to be able to make this discussion, and most of all you've been with the first one. By chance he spoke of the past with that position or argument. The argument to the past, perhaps because some of you have been anchored or chained in the past. I came here to talk about the future, and I wanted to invent a future, where, in that future, I think, there is no place for either the Civil Guard or the National Police or the Spanish Expeditions. Mrs Llanos has brought us a list of triumphs of the State Security Forces and Bodies, triumphs that certainly are not residual but are invasive triumphs of competences. I don't understand why the National Police and the Civil Guard have to do things that other cops here have operational capacity to do. And I don't understand it if it's not from the point of view that they seek to perpetuate themselves when they're not needed. Because, as we said at the beginning, and we have given data on it, double expenses, double actions, double powers... And not only that, but we are being announced more effectively, when the trend has to be precisely the opposite. Cash we don't want and cash we're going to have to pay us and ourselves. True there is a dance of complaints or claims: it starts with withdrawal, withdrawal, decrease, reduction, adequacy... And it seems like it's a kind of slimming game of terms that are getting less and less expectant, less demanding, or less ambitious. I put on the table two tasks that we have to face. The first, to operationalize that demand for withdrawal, reduction, adequacy, and, as I have said, first in order to be able to bring them into line with the current order, to those powers which I do consider to be residual, but to move to a second area, which would be that those residual powers would culminate in the assumption by the Basque police, and in this way the definitive withdrawal of the State Security Forces could be carried out and meet those expectations that we as a people have in order to be able to organize our own security system. And to do so, I felt that a plan was needed, and in the proposal that is brought to us today, there is no such plan. The councillor herself told me in her appearance that the definition and delimitation of competencies must be addressed within the Security Board, down to a fine line. I have never avoided a speech of fine stroke, I have always tried to go to the root of the problems, to know up to the last millimeter where the issue was and where we would have to face a plan that will lead us to the end of this journey, which is the total withdrawal of State Security Forces. And that plan didn't come today. It could also be a plan outside Parliament, not just the government; it could be broader, it could be more supportive. But we did not want to bring that plan in order to have a generic approach that within a year we will review again where we are and what we should do. That's what we were asking for: To withdraw the state's armed forces and the police, to write in small letters, to debate on this parliament, and protect the legislature. As I have said, EH Collect Group will maintain the demands of retreating all Spanish forces until the end of it, because we are trying to demilitate the Basque Country and for that purpose must make a move. And from this point of view we will keep our claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u96	Very briefly, because I believe that most have been told. It is clear that there is broad consensus on a number of issues with the presence of the State Security Forces in Euskadi. The first is that we have a ratio of excessive police presence, and that for nothing is adequate to the social reality that we are living at this time. The second is that there is an integral police force, which is the Ertzaintza, which can fulfil most of the competences, and that there is an interference in its competences and that it is not respected by the central government when it develops. I therefore agree, of course, with that demand from the Spanish Government that, once and for all, after five years, the Security Board be set up. Let the Security Board set in motion so that we can agree in an orderly and agreed manner on an adequacy. Adequacy that I believe that, in this context, all it can mean is reduction, because it would make no sense in any other way that the same number of agents of the State Security Forces in Euskadi would remain or increase that number, as De Andrés asked, which, from our position, is absurd. And to move forward as soon as possible in that agreed and orderly fit. Of course, we, if the option arose for a plan to be implemented from the Department of Safety and Security and that plan were to be debated in this Parliament, would always agree, because the more consensus this form of adequacy has and we could achieve a plan in space that probably knows the social reality that exists in Basquedi in view of the adequacy of these bodies, therefore, much better. Then transfer that to the Security Board, and there can arrive at this agreed and orderly adequacy that has clearly become clear today that it is necessary. So I repeat the last thing I said: please, let us move forward, that this Security Board be convened as soon as possible, because it is a complaint that obviously has a great consensus in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u97	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u98	President. Mr Arzuaga, I believe that we can all agree here that there are a number of police officers in general who are excessive at the population level, and that is why everyone has made the political movement that he considered appropriate and that is reflected in the texts that have been presented. Now, the mood, the expression, the way you present this problem, we reject it flatly. You're left with cops, and you're left with controls, and you're left with a lot of security. I lack 413 national police and civilian guards, 15 inertzainas, 300 unclarified murders; I lack weapons that are still hidden and guarded by terrorists. Those are elements of this problem that we're dealing with and that we don't give up solving properly, taking care of all that sort of thing that you want to ignore by drawing a Euskadi as if it were new, as if it had started with you, when you've had this initiative. He tells me that even some of us are very much in the past, as you look to the future. Start by convincing your group, because I have heard some statements today and have also read in some media that some of you put in the past, for the behavior and politics you are carrying out at this time in relation to Ertzaintza and for the way in which you interpret and raise that problem that you are talking about in relation to torture. Probably who's in the past is still you, and it's hostage beyond the past. And much of what you represent; not everything, because, as we have seen, there is not that same opinion and position on the part of all the components of your coalition. Mrs Llanos, I believe that in the parliamentary debate it is reasonable, it is advisable to read the texts. Because you ask me which police we defend, and you have made a definition of the police that defends. Well, look, it's on the third point: the one where the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Council agree, that's the police. According to the competences of both, according to the defence and security that they have to produce. Where? On the Security Board. Therefore, it is in their hands. It is not this Parliament that will determine how much National Police, how much Civil Guard, how much Army or how much Ertzaintza, or how much municipal police the Basque Country needs, but they will be the ones who have the powers. And it will also be in that relationship that some have claimed many times, bilaterally, that is, between the two governments. Therefore, in the end, you are proof of any contrast that, simply reading the transactional amendment, you know what the formula of that adequacy is. Because the question I'm returning to you is: Hey, do you think that all the National Police, all the Civil Guard, all the inertzainas and all the municipal police, all the security police in Euskadi right now is necessary? Do you think so? Well, look, I'm going to leave a reflection to you and everyone: according to some of the data that has been given here, according to the ratios that have been raised by, among others, Mr Iturrate, who does nothing more than catch ratios than what happens in the European police, according to that, only 6,000 officers would be needed in Euskadi, among all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u99	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u100	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I am going to use today's words of the supreme prosecutor of Euskadi, who on this subject, asked in ETB1, has said not to know if more civilian guards are needed in Euskadi, as requested by the government delegate in the Basque Country, Javier de Andrés, but has remembered that at the moment there is no ETA terrorism and, fortunately, fewer police are needed in general: "In principle, in Euskadi we live secure, and our crime rate decreases, it is not high. At the time it was necessary [more police] because there was terrorism and more problems. At the moment, fortunately, security needs are lower." And he said that the Euskadi police is the Ertzaintza, which is an integral police. And he added that Euskadi is a part of Spain right now, and that's why the Civil Guard has powers. Few, but he's got them. So, there's the answer. Adequacy, how many? In the competences they have, in the exclusive competences they have. For how many turns must be given to the words in order to finally dress the breach of the law, the breach of the Statute! How many turns to words to dress the lack of commitment to the Ertzaintza as integral police (and I repeat the whole police), as own police! And that is what needs to be done: to adapt everyone to their competences, and to respect Ertzaintza as an integral police force, which means respecting and allowing their real-time access to data, e.g. Europol and Interpol; their participation in European police coordination bodies as an integral police force. In short, to recognize the Ertzaintza as what it is: the police own and the integral police of this country. Because in the list that you made, Mrs. Llanos, you mixed barbecues with merinas interestedly, and mixed, combined your own, exclusive competences, that the Statute reserves to the State Security Forces and Bodies, with the shared ones, like terrorism, that you point out as if it were an exclusive competence of the Civil Guard and the National Police, when it is a competence that in the first instance in this country – because the own police and the integral police of this country is the Ertzaintza – must exercise them mainly the Ertzaintza. And for that to happen, we must allow it to develop as an integral police force, which can participate as the rest of the police forces in all the forums in which we must participate. Mr. Prieto gave the data. And you asked: "Adequacy in how many?". For only with the agents who have Ertzaintza, we would be giving a ratio of 3.6 agents per 1,000 inhabitants, quite correct or adequate; it is quite close to the ratios that are handled in the average ratios in the European Union. I therefore believe that it is the law to be respected, to commit to compliance with the Statute, to stop dressing the saint, who no longer admits any more costumes, and to comply with the Statute and to respect and recognize Ertzaintza as an integral police officer of this country. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u102	Thank you again, Madam President. Good. You said, Mr. Arzuaga, that we live chained to the past. Look, if there's anyone in this country who still lives in the 20th century and chained up in the past, that's you. Those are EH Bildu and the left abertzale. You do live in chains in the past! It didn't look like residual operations to him. He said that on the basis of what competencies. The ones they've got recognized! I told you! Those explosives and things are in supra-Community operations, which are the responsibility of the Civil Guard. And you, man, there's plenty of... He's talking about demilitarization. Indeed! He's left with the Civil Guard and he's left with the National Police, but he's also left with the Ertzaintza. And I want to make it clear here today: the People's Party likes the Civil Guard, likes the National Police and likes Ertzaintza. Of course he likes Ertzaintza! And where to decide and where to talk, it is, in fact, on the Security Board. And for the Security Board, which should have met, and which is very important, not so much for this, which may also be for some, but for the coordination of police forces, what needs to be done is not to veto it. Do not specify which items have to go on the agenda for one to go to the Security Board, and, if not, there is no Security Board. That's dialogue. Because dialogue, like the road, is moving. The proclamations are not enough. And it is true, you take advantage of one more point to claim that the number of ertzainas is not questioned and that we consider as an integral police force. Integral yes, as I have told you, it does not mean synonymous with exclusivity. But in relation to the questioning of the OPEs I have to tell you something. The Department of Public Administration and Justice of the Basque Government, in response to the decision of the Director General of the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies to convene the procedure of access to the Ertzaintza, established that the number of places convened should respect the criteria of Law 36/2014, which applied not only to the Ertzaintza, also to the Civil Guard and the National Police. In other words, when it was called, the warning was not given by the Government of Spain, not by the Basque Government. And yet, the number was exceeded knowingly, creating legal uncertainty knowingly. So what do we have to understand here? That the Department of Public Administration and Justice of the Basque Government was questioning Ertzaintza, that the department, with Mr Erkoreka at the front, does not like Ertzaintza? Is that what we have to understand? Because, I say to you, the warning and provocation of legal uncertainty comes from the Basque Government. And it's not about turning words around. Mr. Iturrate, to return to your words, yours. If it seems to me very well that you now join in that, as ETA does not exist, then the National Police and the Civil Guard have to disappear! But the Basque Nationalist Party has always wanted them to leave, and here the funerals of the national police and the civilian guards had the total and absolute absence of the institutional leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party. The "Alde hemendik" not only was crowned by the abertzale left, but also by you. But what is most striking, Mr Prieto, is that of the Basque Socialist Party. I no longer know if it is adequacy or true revelation, that in the passage through Lakua you have seen the light. Because the amendment that you signed here initially, and the compromise that will then be adopted, in your points 1 and 3 is almost the same (call it adequacy, retreat..., it's the same, because you said that the adequacy comes to be a decrease and a withdrawal), just like the one that was presented in 2013. Do you know what you did then? Vote against. And today they present it. But the amendment that you have tabled here, Mr Prieto, has been tabled by this group at the General Councils of Álava. And what have you done? Vote against. I tell you, divine revelation! I know you don't believe in God, but, come on, true divine revelation. (Berbotsa) Thankfully, truly, that now, as I told Mr. Iturrate, now the campaign of the "Alde hemendik" is smoother, isn't it? Because, if not, I see you in a vervain chanting, "Let's go, let's go, let's go..." And I don't go on, because I'm going to take the floor, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u103	Thank you, Miss Llanos. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u104	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, the Basque Socialists, together with Podemos and Euzicobertians, shall vote for the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u105	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary party together, concerning the regulating of the last prices of light. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made this proposal is Mr. Martinez, representing the Podemos team together, has the word to present and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u106	Good afternoon and thank you, Mr. President. The energy companies are in all directions again, and the electricity market is continually rising. It is true that he is rising all over Europe, but it is a shame that the high rate of prices marked by the electric market in the state is a magnificent rate of prices, based on which the regulative rate of voluntary price for small consumers is calculated to apply to the stock of reference marketers. It is easy to blame the climatology and the nuclear interruption of France, or the increase of oil or gas, but those prices which are being seen in the markets have come dangerously close to December 2013, when the government decided to intervene in the electric market, they were seen to the 100 euros in MWh. The fact is that electricity pool has marked the spectacular ascent of electricity price for the past weeks or months: That's about 100 euros from MWh on the state market. Another record was followed by that eccentric and manipulated December 2013, which the National Committee of Spain Markets and Combats opened to him for manipulating the prices of the Iberians. But if the situation is disturbing, it is much more because the rate of light is the fifth record marked and marked for this month, and can be seen beforehand according to what the data of the future market is marked, because it is still more expensive tomorrow. There, in these prices, in this tariff situation is the origin of this initiative; scandalous prices and increases, which only show the reflection of that business (negotiation, if I may) that the big electricity companies in this country have mounted, with ad hoc legislation, legislation made to the glove of their interests. Because recently from the government, from the National Commission on Markets and Competition itself, from the large media, the bill has been emphasized, in how difficult it is to read. And I will not deny it, because it is, and so we spoke fifteen days ago in this House. But to understand the rise of electricity in Spain we do not need to know how to read the bill, nor learn from school the difference between the regulated part of the tariff and the liberalized part, nor the tolls of the system. You just have to know, as I was saying now, that, as much as some people here or outside are hurt, the free electric market is a milonga and a scam. It is nothing more than an oligarchical system, controlled by only five companies in this country with the aim of being always and at the expense of all. The current Minister of Energy, Álvaro Nadal, has recently explained some of the reasons we have already mentioned, which would explain that every citizen could pay more than a hundred euros more in bill this year. He said those famous phrases that it was cold, that it wasn't raining, etc., or what I've already mentioned about nuclear energy in France, the stoppage, which made it necessary for us to export energy to him. By the way, this is thanks to two European Union directives which make it easier for peripheral countries, in particular, to be at the service of the interests of France and Germany, and I do not think that you need to remember who rules in the European Commission. France, for example, is therefore taking advantage of the energy we export from this country, which does not include the associated costs they have. That is to say, the consumers of the state (the Basques and Basques too) finance the cheap energy that we sell to the greatest glory of French, German, etc., and also to our electricity companies, which are benefited by being in other markets. Add to this that consumers have to pay for twenty-five years a debt to the electricity of several billion euros, and we will have the result: the bill of light was in January the second most expensive in history. There are two fundamental legs, as you know, in fixing the final price; one is the regulated part, and the other is liberalized. In the regulated part, the sum of taxes or the transport of electricity has a fundamental role, but there are also other surprising items, or I would like to say clarifying. Companies are paid for their production capacity, i.e., for their installations, to start them up or to produce them or not, and it is also compensated for the large industries for something baptized as the cost of ininterruptibility, which is nothing more and nothing less than 500 million euros a year in case at a time of peak consumption the cable has to be cut, something that has not produced –attentions – in more than a decade. Will it be a principle of prevention? I believe that something misunderstanding, a principle of prevention that in addition the parties that have supported these reforms in the electricity system have not had, for example, with CETA voted yesterday in the European Parliament. As we see, in this regulated part there is room for action, there is room for lowering that price. We also told the Government: VAT could be lowered, this EUR 500 million could not be anticipated every year, or we could also ask ourselves and question the supposed legitimacy of the debt that we supposedly have with electricity. The second is the liberalised part, the second part of the price fixing, which is fixed with an auction that was once quarterly and which is now daily.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u107	Please, silence! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u108	Thank you. Supposedly – now we will see why I say it – it is based on the law of supply and demand. And I say supposedly because I wonder if, under favorable weather conditions for energy production, and with a medium or low demand for light, I should lower the price with the same intensity as it goes up when they are not. Well, it gives me that it doesn't happen, and it's more of a sample of that free-trade electric thyme. In Germany, for example, most of the electricity auction takes place or takes place once a year, and we can plan at least in that period of time, and not on a daily basis, that festival of speculation that we live in our State. And not only is it daily, but it also works (apart from daily and in a speculative way) in a twisting way. Because first the consumption needs are established; second, the electrics offer the megawatts and also offer where they will take them, and, third, the dance between supply and demand takes place until these two converge. Here there is this game between the origin of production, between the energies, which, as you know, there are some that are economically amortized, and others that are not. But the price that is set, curiously, is that of the most expensive energy that enters the system, and that does it also at the last moment. Surprise, isn't it? As I said, there are economically amortized energies that enter at a cost that we could consider zero in the system. But the electrics always manage to offer slightly below the expected demand. And what is missing, as I said, usually complements it with thermal or gas plants, which are the ones that end up determining the price, of course, which are the most expensive. I could also spend time, as I have been doing, continuing to denounce these faults and this assembly that has assembled this great electric oligopoly, that what it does is that we pay, at the end of the month, that abusive price, both in the houses and also in our companies. But I think there is an agency, and hence our proposal, which is the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which should do it, and should do it better. Because it is true that an investigation was announced in January on the specific subject of this winter, but it does not seem enough. In addition, there have also been obstacles to monitoring by the Government in Congress. That is why we reiterate that it is this committee that has to do this investigation, and not an ad hoc investigation into what has been going on this winter, but about the prices, of the audit of the system. And in addition, in case it were too little, from our parliamentary group, and United Left as well (from Unite Podemos and United Left), a complaint has been brought before the Prosecutor's Office, which has been admitted to court, about what happened in January. I ask again: Why not audit electricity generation and sales prices? Why not audit the whole system, and not just point questions? For I understand that connivance with the power companies of the big parties will have something to do with it, and that it will have something to do with it too if we look at the National Commission on Markets and Competition and who are its advisors and advisors. From our group, we're on that line and we're going to work. This is how we did with the GNP of basic vital supplies, and it will also be done in others that will be discussed in the near future. But our group in this legislature believes that a change in the energy model, a change based on the energy transition to renewable energy, is essential. And also based on treating energy and other vital supplies as rights and not as merchandise, and therefore sectors that need strong public intervention. That is why, in this proposal and in the compromise we have agreed with EH Bildu, we are calling, as a way to this alternative scenario, for our Parliament to urge the state government to reform the tariff system, but in addition to a very concrete way, which is by introducing maximum prices for users and also for businesses; prices based on income criteria for users; prices which do not in any way exceed the average of the prices we have in Europe, and prices which also adjust to real costs. And here the difference also with the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, that difference between that concept of competitive prices and the need to have a debate to establish maximum prices to be paid by users. Therefore – although I know it will be in vain – I encourage the rest of the groups to support this transaction by Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. Because we also had a debate very recently in this House and we reached agreement on basic vital supplies and on the element of paying bills to families and people who could not do so because of their economic situation. That is a task that we have to do as long as this does not change, but this GNP, and what this GNP says and this transaction that we have presented between Euskal Herria Bildu and our group, goes in the sense of tackling the root problem: to reform the electricity system, to reform the tariff system, so that they are fair prices, so that they are adequate bills for consumption as well, and that the electric oligopoly also see their rights cut, conquered after years and years of buying votes in parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u109	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing the corrections to the teams, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u110	Good afternoon, everyone. From this room has just passed the discussion of the Egyptian poverty. Well, today, there's electricity prices and, of course, they have a relationship. And he who is giving it to the price of electricity, whether he be poor or not, is in the hands of a few people a base of wealth, making many snares in the way. First of all, let's divide the bill into two parts. On the one hand, the amount of electricity that we consume, which does not reach 40%, and then the fixed costs, the pedals, and so on, over 60%. Our bill is the sum of these two. On the side, it's 23% more expensive than what's paid in Europe. But if we look at the purchase power, it's 35% more expensive. One of the most expensive in Europe. These records are amazing. But if we consider even more terrible, the bill has been 10% in the last ten years, as long as the IPC is up 16% and the rents haven't been raised. And here the Jesuit, there's no oasis, here the bill's the same color as Murzian or Albazete. That's right, here it comes with Iberdro's seal. The problem, therefore, is not only the anger produced by a punctual ascent of electricity. The problem is structure. And in so far as it is structural, we must look at energy planning, planning, or systematic fraud. So we always have to have an eye here because there are important facts. And the first striking data are in the energy planning itself, or in its absence. The clearest example of this lack of energy planning is the excessive electric power installed: there are about 110,000 megawatts installed throughout the State, almost twice as much as in 2000, and it represents much more of the power needed. The Spanish state is in the top ten (in the top five, I would say) of electric power installed per head, but the consumption per head is not even among the top thirty. The investments that have been made are, in addition to astronomical, oversized, and almost always unnecessary, accumulating capacity rather than replacing. They have been made about hallucinated expectations, sheltered from the speculative bubble of the 2000s, and especially in a market system, or rather a conditioned market or a rigged market. And now the party has to pay for it. And the party is not anything: it is more than 70 billion euros of investment; it is more than 25,000 megawatts of combined gas cycle built in ten years. And it is paid, by political decisions, through the price of light, and there would be no reason why. It's paid out of cleavage, because the benefits of the big electrics are untouchable. And without forgetting all this, as I have said before: 10,000 billion euros, nuclear moratorium, $78 billion, at the cost of spending a competitive system, 12 billion, thermal Plants for power payment, or the "pagos poracidad" of the word, 27800, "pagos porrubilidad," 14 billion euros in electrical deficit, and 25,000 still waiting. And without making all this auditorium, the cost of corporations were approved by the government. As I said the other day, we're all paying for your service to the giant neurotic companies and we can talk about the spinning door again, but I don't have time. If we look at the power consumption of the bill, that is almost 40 percent, here too the traps are in charge. When the reasons are explained by the Government, the Minister Nadal said that there is a reservoir (that is to say, the hydroelectrics can't go completely) a little wind... (So the windmills can't get in) the problem of the nuclear in France... (So we must send a part of the energy there), cold, which increases the demand, and coal and the rate of gas. In an international context. He says the keys are there. Klaro, if we give ounce of current electricity, of course there are the keys, but the government does not explain the way to get here. The government doesn't talk about the real reason. And it's the main reason for the high price of electricity, instead of a fundamental resource, that instead of a public service, it's based on the field of energy on the wild market of speculation. And in the least way, in a market that has no real competitive competency. Hau bear argi utzi zuen Aznarrek 1997an: Law 54/97, Electrical Sector, explanatory statement. "It is not considered necessary for the State to reserve for itself the exercise of any of the activities that make up the electricity supply. Thus, the notion of public service is abandoned." I repeat: "Thus, the notion of public service is abandoned." Since then the game-field is entirely changed. Hence, when a large application is made, great companies introduce mechanism of free market, aided by its oligolitical position, and also trappings. It was clearly 2013. we are witnessing it in the year and in the light of this winter. In the year 2013, with the Iberdrons' mamanbels and intricate cycles, with a movement made between them, in the bill of the commons, he caused a overdose of 105 million euros. That's not what I'm saying. It's what the National Committee of Market competition says. And he fined her. How much wasn't that fine? 25 million euros after 105 million overducts. This time, it seems, the "prestable," the scam comes with the gas reservation. We'll see soon. Remember, 400 million dollars a year pay to thermal Plants to be there when they need it. But were they there when it needed? No, they weren't there. They missed the gas. But what about the gas operators? And what are the main gas operators? They! What were they doing when the gas needed? Exporting. That's what they bought for re-exporting because they pay more money in Asia. And the gas market is supposed to have been lent for that, to lower prices. Here, the Jelters followed, with Bilbao Gas Hub, and then in Iberian Gas Hub. Finally, Mibgas is the market. And in that market, only 5% of the gas go by and when there's plenty of gas, so low the price is pum! He climbs. The price multiplied more than two. I was looking at the price today, 20 euro megabate, when it was the most needed, 42 euros at MW. Is that what liberalization is for? You say "Euskadi is a Gasist," Mr. Urkullu often says. Watch out for the gas. It's expensive. This is also to be added to the diversion of the marginistic system, because the price comes in, the most expensive energy includes the price for all the others, and when they have paid for sub-structures, the larger hydroelectrics and nuclear ones pocket fortunes. In short, the price will often have these violent chapters, as long as the whole model is not shaken. So long as Tarifation is not founded on the wealth of individuals, unless the Iberdron and his friends enter their hands, there is no audience, etc., etc. That's why today we're proposing some urgent measures with Podemos. But we go farther: here we agree with the Arangua Tapi, when he says that the most important of all hands belongs to energy, and then in the management model, well, it would be a discussion. .). But we can clearly see that we will not be independent without the independence of energy, and that this method is becoming more and more urgent. So, in short, the independent pattern, the public, the progressive, disorganized, and, on the way, the control and limitations of the gigantic corporations. Eta amaitzeko, Esaldi bukatuko batekin due, gaur ére, pankartarekin etorri nahi nuen. So today I also come with a banner, Mrs. Red, or a slogan. It comes from the Movement of Two Affected by Barriers or Movement of the Affected by the Dams of Brazil, which is an incredible people. They are rural and indigenous communities displaced from their lands, doing what they can to the big electrics, such as Iberdrola. They and they taught me, and it seems to me that we can adopt it and even share the slogan, to see what it seems to you; it is very short and says thus: "Water and energy are not commodities". I don't think he needs a translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u112	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, this is a matter of concern to us, and I believe that the parties represented in the Congress of Deputies also occupy us. I believe that the Socialist Party has put forward initiatives in the Congress of the Deputies dealing with this issue, in which the concern can be seen reflected and what measures we would propose to be able to address this widespread concern in society, in Basque society and in Spanish society in general, with what is happening with the price of light; above all the concern of those families to which, as Mr Martínez said, affects them the impossibility of paying bills, some for situations that have occurred, others for the economic crisis... And it's true that we have to deal with it, but I wanted to ask you a question. I do not know whether we are going to use this Parliament to repeat all the debates in the Congress of Deputies, which, if we are going to do so, suits me well, because my party has a clear position on this and other issues, but, Mr Martínez, it is that you come to us to speak... He even talks about competences with VAT! You have spoken of powers that are not the responsibility of this government. She has used a perfect intervention for the Congress of Deputies and to demand from Mr Rajoy's government, but finally, Mrs Tapia can go there and put forward what the Basque Parliament thinks, but the competition is not ours. And you, Mr. Otero, have gone to the end of the whole, in your last two minutes, to talk about sovereignty. Do you believe that sovereignty on this subject would solve management problems? Honestly? According to the issue of electricity today, according to prices, according to demand, according to dependence, according to all this. Because I would go back to what I put to you on my second shift that day when we talked about energy poverty. It is true that we have to talk about energy, it is true that we have to talk about a new system and a new way above all of managing all this, but we are going to talk for real. And I say the same thing again: Do you want to talk about a new energy model? Bring the debate to the Basque Parliament, but really bring it. Bring it not to waste time and when it comes time to sign the agreement "No, because we really don't want to give up anything in our political idea of sovereignty." Let's really bring him in. We have a problem, us and the vast majority of the citizens, Basques and the rest of Spain. There is opacity in the electric bill, the citizen takes his bill and doesn't know what he pays. You say it! Because in the end I listen to Elkarrekin We can and I listen to EH Bildu, and in 90% I agree, but we are in the Basque Parliament! So, here we can comment, fill in leaflets and leaflets, but you know that for today this is not the arrangement. And why am I coming here, so I can see that I'm not running away from the problem? There are two initiatives put forward in the Congress of Deputies that are very consistent with this issue. And the Socialist Party proposes four measures (I think there are four, yes), four measures on this subject, which I believe we share here, except the People's Party, I suppose, the majority. One, a pact for energy, that pact that I am sure here in Euskadi is very complicated, because we have been three years in an energy presentation and we disagreed on nothing, Mr Otero, on nothing, and you participated. The diagnosis is fantastic, we can do a doctoral thesis on what is the situation of energy and citizen concern, but when a politician goes to "One: let's see what we're going to put" there's no agreement, and you know it. Therefore, covenant for energy yes, but truly, truly. Let's really talk about things. Why? Because you generate frustration in the citizen. Because with this debate you are telling them and making them believe that, depending on what the Basque parliamentarians say here today, we are able to change the price of light to benefit the quality of life of the citizen. And that's a lie, because you know that's not true. That I share the objective of the initiative, truly, but you know that you are proposing here things that we cannot carry out. Point two: independent audit, proposed PSOE. They said so, too. We agree! Can we do it here? No, no, In-depth reform of the electricity market, they have also said so. Do we agree? Everyone. Could Mrs. Tapia do that? No, because, although we want to continue to deepen our self-government, which is the tool we have acquired, because we believe that we are able to take this country where it is and improve it, today there is no competition. So I can devote ten minutes, twenty-three and five minutes here today to what I think of Mr Nadal's policy, but it will fill in the Minutes of the Basque Parliament but it will not do any good. And politics is also the exercise of what is possible, and we have to stand up to the citizen and say: "The electricity bills are a barbarity, they have gone up a lot; as Mr Martínez said, they will go up to an average family with two children more than 100 euros a year, it is true, and that must be treated". But what you propose does not solve the problem. And then, in order to continue to insist on what is proposed in Madrid, which is what Mr Martínez brings us, we spoke, within the framework of the reform of the institutional architecture of the regulatory and supervisory body proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because it was the one who proposed it, of approving urgently the necessary legislative amendments. Of course I do! And there we will meet, but in the competent institution. Why am I telling you this? Because the energy issue is a much more serious issue than coming here and saying I don't know what. Because you know perfectly well that with point 3, which is the point of discord with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, you are asking the Basque Government for something that does not solve the problem. Because you will tell me whether with that report you are proposing we are going to fix the situation we have today. Because I want, first, to know what citizens pay, and, for what they pay, what they receive. I too agree that energy should be a right (me and the Socialist Party), but let us have serious debates on the subject of energy. Do we want to talk about a new energy model? Me too. But seriously, the energy model. Not with great headlines to put us on the front line against the government and against the parties that support the government, but that we are actually unable to define any line that will carry out the energy policy. And so I believe, Mr. Otero and Mr. Martínez, that we are not going to get anywhere. Especially if the argument that they repeat and repeat are those enemy companies, which I believe they will have in their house posters marked with Iberdrola, because my mother! Anyway, if we go on a visit one day, I guess they won't come, because I don't know... They're those enemies, and then worse, the friends of the enemies, that you say it's us, I understand, right? This, and then those untouchable benefits that you speak of, the combined cycle, the thermals, the gas (careful, Mr. lehendakari speaks of Euskadi gas)... So, I return to the question I have been asking for the past eight years: What is the solution that you (now I include Podemos) are giving to the energy situation in Euskadi today? Solution. But tell us, because it is very good to criticize everything and to see ghosts, enemies, oligopolies and I don't know how many more things, but when it comes time to concretely offer the Basque citizen, in the form of a proposal, what we can bring to the solution, there is nothing of that. Because I agree to criticise the Minister's energy policy today, Mr Nadal. I don't agree with that either. I think we need to change the energy model that this country is carrying. I do not share the energy policy advocated by the People's Party, I agree. But how are we going to do it? And then I go back to the same thing: we are unable to make concrete, and we come here to this rostrum to do policy of thick stroke. So we are going to come to fruition, because what I was talking to Mr Martínez today is that what is incredible is that we agree on 95% of what you are demanding, but we are unable to reach an agreement. And the enemy in this case is not the Socialist Party or the Basque Nationalist Party, because there is also a parliamentary initiative presented by the Socialist Party, signed by all the parties of the House except the People's Party, which talks about this. I therefore believe that we should unite the voices of the Basque political parties in the criticism of the Spanish Government, as happened the other day with Garoña, when we show our deepest condemnation of the politics they are doing, if that is what we think, but let us come here to do real politics, and let us not deceive the citizen, and we do not believe false expectations, and let us not tell him that it is in the hands of the Basque politicians to change the price of light. Let's not say all this, because it's a lie, it's a lack of truth. So, does the energy model need to be changed? Yes; address it sincerely and responsibly. Is there a need for reform of the tariff system? Yes, but it's not Euskadi's competition. Do we have to sit down and talk about this? Yeah. Is there a need for greater transparency in the bill? Yeah. All of this does, but... I'm no one to give advice and these things, but I think in everything we have to look for allies, and in this too. And in this initiative, which is of fundamental importance to the citizen, which we have all had the bill this past month, we should join the political forces we have in favour of the agreement and the pact in this too. And let us not use this rostrum once again for, taking debates that are held in Madrid, that are very good and that come very good to us... Because we all have colleagues who read you the initiatives and you read the interventions and they serve us, but here they are not worth anything. Because, as long as the energy competition is 100% the competence of the Government of Spain, here are great words, lots of philosophy, sharing objectives, but little can contribute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u113	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Geaters, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u114	Thank you very much. Chief physician, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As it turns out, the light bill has become a burden to the families, to the professionals, to the professionals, to the small and average corporations, and so on. He's become a troublemaker because of the method of setting prices. To-day we may say that it is a poor method, considering the climbs given in the past few months, and above all because of the competition in the electric market. It is a complex subject, as has been shown here, and has a direct influence on the family atomics and even on small and middle companies that make up our financial fabric. We have been told of unusually climate conditions to justify these promotions, the absence of wind and rain, for instance, so that the eolious energy and the hydraulic forces have contributed little to the production of energy. And since it has been a sudden demand, they must have been a combined coal or cycle to answer it, and, of course, their changing cost is much larger. All this is connected, as has been said before, with the French export. In fact, from the nuclear stop, it's gone by selling to buy. I mean, we've got a perfect storm or something of the kind lately, in a great deal of market where the prices are fixed. Those facts don't make me very convincing. In fact, when the system changed, we were told we'd have a stable system, which apparently isn't so yet. We therefore believe that there is a need for legal change in order to promote this market structure and to promote measures to defend the competitiveness of the production system. The cost of energy has become not only a burden on business productivity, which also threatens industrial activity, but also a factor that causes public discomfort, because neither the receipt nor the tariffs that are being applied are understood. We believe, like the other groups that have preceded us in the use of the word, that the situation is going to review the system, to be transparent with citizens, and to give them, once and for all, an effective solution. We believe that a review of the tariff system is necessary, and even, like you, an audit of costs. I mean, we need a diagnosis as soon as possible to find solutions. And for this we must seek synergies, so that energy policy is implemented properly and not, as hitherto, in a policy based primarily on the tariff deficit and without any coordination with industrial policy or social policy. It is worrying that the Government says that it has nothing to do, that we depend on the rain and that there is a wholesale market subject to wind volatility, and that if the weather conditions go hand in hand, it will be better, and if not, the Government has nothing to do. We believe that the government – that of the state – has much to say in the area of the costs of the system, of all tolls, and also in tax matters. As has been said here, it has a lot to say in more than 65% of what the electricity bill means. There seems to be a wholesale market subject to the volatility of the technologies and of the moment, but not: the government also has a decisive influence with its intervention or no intervention in costs. And what is needed of a minister is to act as a minister, not as a man of time or as a commentator of what is happening. It is terrible to hear, from the highest responsible for energy and tariff policy, to say coldly that the receipt of light will rise this year an average of about 100 euros per year for an average family, without it immediately explaining what it will do to remedy this situation. The Spanish State is the only country in its environment in which the Government currently has the power to set electricity prices instead of the regulatory body, as has been requested even by the European Union itself. But, as we say, as long as this remains the case, the Government cannot devote itself to describing reality, but rather to providing solutions. Today, more than ever, there is a need for a system that is balanced between what is paid and what is received. We need a far-reaching reform of the electricity market, since it has not so far protected the interests of consumers and does not favour the competitiveness of our companies, nor does it provide an adequate framework to boost the investments that the energy transition requires. The evolution of electricity prices shows that the reform of the electricity sector did not address the fundamental problem of the system. Prices still do not reflect what it really costs to produce energy, and are subject to random factors related to weather conditions, as is happening at this time. As I say, we agree that the reform of the tariff system is necessary, but we have a specific proposal: to remove from the bill those concepts that are alien to energy consumption, and to approve the taxes that we pay for electricity with Europeans, since today we are more than ten points above. Maximum light prices cannot be set; it is a market activity that has to cover costs. If we go to intervention formulas in price we would again generate tariff deficits, with the problems that this has posed for the system, and therefore for users. Another thing is to intervene on the cost side. But the PP government, to solve a problem – that of the tariff deficit – has created three new ones: the renewable sector has been loaded, prices still do not reflect what it really costs to produce energy, and we have the highest prices in our environment. Nor would it be a bad idea to compare with other European pricing systems, to see if we can have more competitive prices while ensuring that all the costs of the system are covered: generation, transport, distribution and marketing. Some of the ingredients in the bill should be there, but others shouldn't. We're paying for coal, nuclear extension, islandism, and the deficit of photovoltals, for instance. Then, on the other hand, there is the creation of energy, as has been said before. But that's 35% of the bill, and it's been structured in a very special way. And even if it's a lie, it's connected to the weather. It's obvious that the system isn't at all suitable, and that we should change. And I do not want to miss the opportunity to recall the demands of the Basque industry; an industry with a high energy consumption and which, because of the current regulation, bears too high electricity costs, which lead to a loss of competitiveness. It is not acceptable that, while, through so-called interterritorial solidarity, consumers will have to bear burdens for coal production, for paying off the islands' deficit or for the nuclear moratorium, or even a tax on a tax, our companies will have to bear excessive tolls here. Here, too, we need a system of industrial access tariffs comparable to those of the rest of Europe and non-discriminatory. Because to greater competitiveness greater wealth, and to greater wealth greater distribution of it, and therefore more well-being for all. Mr Martínez invites us to support his text. We're not doing it, I'm sorry. And it's not a matter of will. We are not going to vote in favour because we do not agree with what they propose. And, with regard to the will, I accept it at this time, but you have had no desire to reach an agreement with us until today. So, finally, I hope that from now on we will be able to work on these things in a different way, as there are, I think, enough limbs to be able to reach agreements. And in conclusion, Mr. Oterre has spoken to us about independence. I would tell him that we are not in this section for a reason: We're not talking about this section. Next week, next Thursday, we'll talk about independence right here in this Chamber, thanks to a motion Mrs. Yes, and from now on, it's in Autogobernu Poncia, and here, of course, it's about energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potional Group, Mrs. López, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u116	Yeah, good afternoon. After the demagogic verbal outbursts to the right and wrong, we also come into the matter, in the initiative we are debating, because I believe that it has not entered it. First of all, I would like us to talk about the Basque Parliament, for example, when the groups come forward with initiatives. And when you urge a state government... What state? Paris, France, England, Greece... Is that what you're talking about? From which country? Then, a compromise amendment has been signed which also urges the Government of the State... Look, the Bureau will know where it's headed, because it's really like saying nothing, isn't it? Finally, the Group of the European People's Party is, of course, concerned at the recent sharp rise in energy prices. Social concern, on the one hand, and economic and job-generation concern. Indeed, social because it affects consumers; it mainly affects the most vulnerable consumers, those with lower incomes. And economic and employment generation because energy is one of the basic costs in the production system, and the increase in this energy negatively affects the competitiveness of our companies and, as a result, also affects the capacity to generate employment. We therefore fully agree on the need to analyse the causes of this rise and to assess the scope for action. As has been said here, there has been a particularly sharp upturn in January, a context of high demand growth, shortage of supply, and an increase in energy raw materials. As you all know – but I am going to say this, so that it is recorded – the prices in raw materials guaranteed by energy services, that is, flexible energy, which is there for when we do not have rigid energy, such as renewable energy, for example..., which is oil, which in the last year has risen by 112%; as is natural gas, which from September until now has risen by 172 %, or as is coal, another of the materials used internationally and which has risen by 124 %. And what happened in Spain? In Spain the demand, as you know, has been very high. Our wind power production capacity has been lower than usual, due to a lack of wind (and we are going to make a comparison with 2016, which was fantastic in the production of this type of energy), and in hydro power also the hydraulic reserves were below 50% of the usual and has prevented us from generating energy. Two very economical energies, but with no capacity for use in this period. And they talked about the prices of light and the comparison of European countries, the prices of light. Spain has set an identical price in Portugal. We have had lower prices than Belgium, Switzerland, Italy and France. I am not inventing anything, because I have gone to Eurostat's statistics and tables, and that is what the Eurostat tables say. You're not making it up to the People's Party, or this MP, okay? Germany and Holland have had more expensive price episodes than Spain, and also lower price episodes. But why was this and when was this happening? Because Germany and the Netherlands use much more coal than gas, and when they use coal the price comes out much cheaper than in Spain, and when they use gas the price is fired above the 100 euros, far above the price of Spain. Although we have the same energy tensions, the same energy mix, the same circumstances and the same source of supply of our raw materials, when looking at prices we have better behaviour than our European neighbours, who only improve when using coal instead of gas. But you know that coal has a big drawback: it's a big CO emitter. 2 - No, no, no, This complicates the fulfilment of the parameters of the climate targets to which we have all committed ourselves. On the other hand, the European Commission, in the market reform it now has on the table, sets its policy on the elimination of coal as a backup energy. Therefore, when coal as a backup energy disappears, all European countries will have gas as a backup, and our prices will remain at the lowest in Europe, given the behaviour in this situation. And they were talking about the receipt. And what does the receipt of the light tell us? For in the receipt we pay two things: on the one hand the fixed part, the availability of electricity, that which is difficult to get home, give to the switch and that everything works, that we have energy (these fixed costs are the networks, the towers, the transformers..., all the installations), and there is another part to which I will call the past, the political decisions that are incorporated into this part. That one is, as has been said, territorial solidarity (i.e. that light costs the same thing anywhere in Spain), but this is not particularly burdensome. What is burdensome are the mortgages acquired in other years. That I don't know where you were, right? But it's just that here in eight years the price of light rose by 200 percent, and you were quiet, and so were you. And these gentlemen too, because they supported the budgets and decisions of Mr Zapatero's government. Also, shut up. Because they did it in exchange for other necessary policy prebendas. Therefore, they are also responsible for this situation here, because those mortgages are going to last us a few years and we have to pay them among all of them. And that, this fixed part, represents 60% of the receipt of light. Sixty percent. And what this People's Party government has done with the reforms, what it has done is to stop the rise of this part, with which this part is frozen, from putting any more mortgages on this part. That's frozen. And in 2016, which has been a good year, it has been incorporated, to lower those mortgages, it has been incorporated credit, to lower the mortgage. That part is therefore determined. And then there is the variable part, which depends on the market, which, if we depend on renewable energies, then depends on climatology. Someone's kidding, we depend on time. Of course! Or how do mills work?How do plates work? Let's see, less jokes, that we don't have time for jokes, nor is this a matter of jokes. I don't think it's serious that you, as a representative of the group that supports the Government, come here with that lack of respect for other governments, okay? That doesn't sound like a receipt to me. It'd be nice if you corrected it, because it's not the first time you've done it. Okay? As I was saying, we have the variable part, a part that depends on the market, that depends on whether we have renewable energy supplying or having thermal energy, that then we do depend on the prices of hydrocarbons. The one that has no variability is nuclear, but, well, we have what we have. And how have the evolution of energy markets been, which is worrying how they have evolved, of course, especially the gas market, and especially in Spain? And have decisions been made? Yes, they have. What has been done, as I said, on the one hand, is to stop or freeze the fixed part of the receipt, and on the other hand, decisions have been taken in particular with the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which has already requested detailed reports on everything that has happened throughout this episode as regards guarantees of competition. And measures are being taken in agreement with the committee to ensure a non-abuse and more competitive gas supply. Therefore, action is being taken. Having said that, I believe that I fully respond to the initiative put forward by Podemos, and I believe that the Government is perfectly complying with what you were asking for there, and in some cases goes beyond the initiative you were putting forward. To Mr Otero I want to say that this is not a matter of slogans, Mr Otero. This is a lot more serious than all that. This is responding to needs. Because problems are solved by taking action, not by slogans. And Mr. Martinez, from Podemos, look, you said... I have all the thick words you used. This is not a question of thick words; this is a question of making decisions, and I believe that it answers citizens' problems. And you here haven't given us any answers. We may be against or in favour, but he hasn't given any answers. And I'd ask you to. Mrs. Red, energy pact. Sure! It's on the table! Independent audit. Well, if you don't trust ministry officials, if you don't trust government agencies, then you have to do an independent audit! But the data that is because they are provided by public officials and agencies. Reforming the electricity market. We can talk, of course we can. And changes in the regulatory framework. Well, also, why not! I don't think that's gonna close anything. And, Mr Grajales, as I was saying, it seemed to me to be a rather pathetic speech, especially as a representative, as I was saying, of the political group that supports the Government. He said that the People's Party has loaded itself with renewables. No, no. He has put order in the mess and in the play that was in the renewables sector. The renewables sector has not been loaded. There will now be an offer of renewables, of course. It's not loaded. Another thing is that we have cut the cabbage that some companies were setting up at the expense of all our money, that is, but we have not taken over the renewables sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u117	Please stop...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u118	That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answers, the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u120	Mrs Red, I thought, I knew that when things were going to be slow, that the changes are slow, that the issues are many and varied, but what I didn't think I would hear is, I think for the third time – the second time you tell me and the third time someone tells me in this room and in the committee – on issues that are supposedly not to be discussed in Parliament, things that are not our competence... I wonder why, then, we have a foreign affairs committee, for example, that many of the things dealt with in that committee are not within the competence of the Basque Government, but the Basque Government is doing work, and in my view work needs to be done, in this and in many other areas. And probably in the measures or headlines that you have given about the energy pact, the independent audit or the reform of the electrical system, we agree. That's not where I'm going to say no. But also in Parliament, as I said at first, we come to make an ideological confrontation as healthy as possible, without any problem. A democratic and ideological confrontation. Because, of course, I agree with those headlines, but I am very used to hearing very interesting things from the Socialist Party too, until we often come to the time of the vote. Here, in Madrid or, for example, yesterday in Brussels. And, with regard to the study proposed in the non-legislative proposal agreed with Euskal Herria Bildu last week, fifteen days ago, the request for a study by the Basque Government of the costs and competences or the legislation on the creation of a public energy distribution company remained outside of the GNP of basic vital supplies. Today we are also asking for a study, because we want to have the government's knowledge and opinion on these issues, exactly as we do now with the amendment we have agreed. And with much of Mr Grajales' speech I can only agree, but it is true that there are many things we can do in Euskadi. And, for example, from 2005 to 2015, for example, in renewable energy Euskadi has not evolved since that 7%. I think we can do things here too. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, the truth is that I didn't imagine you were going to have those doubts about that sense of belonging that you have, the truth. The Government of the State, which has the competence, must ask what we are asking for in this proposal. Because obviously energy is a source of wealth, a source of employment... I don't even tell you about the renewable energy, the wealth it generates and the quality jobs it generates! But we must also say the attitude and decisions of the Government of the State in this area in the last legislature, that what it has done is to lower this energy production through, for example, the sun tax or the prohibition of self-consumption. He also tells me that he has not been clear about the solutions that we are proposing in this proposal, but he has not responded to either of the three parts of the points of that proposal. It has not been clear whether it supports the audit of costs or the reform of the tariff system, or, for example, what opinion does it have that we have to bear the cost of the Castor project among all citizens. Nor did he say anything about the VAT reform, nor did he say anything about the EUR 500 million that we are making available to the electricity industry, so that, as I said earlier, possible cases of disruption costs for the system, which have not happened in the last ten years. Multiply, make the sum of five hundred by ten, and you will see what we are giving year by year to all these electrics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u121	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u122	Good afternoon again. Mrs López de Ocariz, I don't think you've given one in almost everything you've said. And there's some data you've manipulated that I think you deserve special attention. Because when you've been talking about what the price of light was up, and you were talking about the Zapatero government, I want to remind you that the period when the price of light was up the most is the period 2011-2016, when the price of light was up 71%, and I think you were in the government almost all that time. And then you have a very big confusion with the issue of the European invoice. Because it is not the same data that you give us about Eurostat, in which you talk about what megawattage/hour is worth in one country and another. We're talking about the bill the citizens of every state pay and the effort they make for their pocket. And today the state differential (that state) is 35%, about 35% higher, higher. And, about the state, I didn't think I had to give this kind of explanation, but it's like when you tell an Athletic fan to see if he's going to see the party at the cathedral. For the Athletic fan does not answer to you only to the cathedral of Lyon or the cathedral of Burgos. I understood that when I speak to you about the state, you obviously have to understand me without me telling you anything else. Because for you the state, of course, is that one, great and free. So, we're talking about the only state in which you can feel comfortable, than not all. I'll tell you only one thing (yes, but my time is running out, I can't wait for you! .). No, I'm surprised, because you seem to agree with some things, but then you say we won't vote for the third point, because we'll discuss it later. There's no need to see if you're here today. I think there's something else going on here, and it's the same with the Social Party. In the end, here, the measures, companies, enemies, and voting for them seem to have been cut off from somewhere, otherwise you don't understand so much fear of voting these things. And you gave no reason. You said "we don't agree" for the first two points. Well, yes, very well, but we'll have to reason, won't we? Mrs. Red, what I have left... It doesn't give me time to everything, because you talk fast too and say a lot of things, about friendly companies and enemies and friends of enemies, and in the end I got into trouble. I had a dossier prepared on the outbursts of Iberdrola, which obviously won't give me time, to talk about corruption, bribes, the cases of Albania, Latvia, Mexico, the United States..., their tax evasion... A lot of things. But obviously it won't give me time to touch all that. If that, we'll review another time the doser, which is juicy, really juicy. But I am going to make a reference to Mr Christian Illedits, who is a regional parliamentarian from Burgenland of the Socialist Party, with regard to large companies, in an opinion, in a draft opinion he makes for the Committee of the Regions, in which he points out that what contributes most to the problem of energy affordability is the benefits of the energy monopolies established. Okay? I mean, this is... this is what your people should say! I understand you should say this. And not what you're saying, that every time we have a problem with the big monopolies you accuse us of..., I don't know, I don't really know what you accuse us of. See if you can explain it to me. [[Barres]] And then, to end with what's left, that we do real politics, invites us to do real politics, and bring forward proposals. The Socialist Party, which I know, or which is known, here the energy proposal, the most important one that has brought at least, is the Energy 2020 Strategy, when you were in government in 2011. I'm going to give you a couple of details, a couple of strokes on that energy plan. And I will read it: "The technological improvement aimed at the development of the so-called 'unconventional' deposits (...) opens up new expectations in this field in the Basque Autonomous Community. (...) Unlike conventional gas, non-conventional gas does not migrate, it is stored in the parent rock itself, which has low porosities and permeability, so to extract it it is necessary to stimulate the formation that contains it creating artificial permeability that allows the gas to flow". And you were talking to thirty-one times in this non-conventional gas document to stimulate. That in my village, and in yours, it's called fracking. Not just that, not just that, which is what you pushed. Not just that. You were talking about electrification, and you were aiming to have 8,000 charging points, in the period between 2000 and 2015, for electric vehicles. If you can give me the figure of those who exist today, I would be grateful. I don't think they're up to a hundred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. Otero, Zapatero is Mrs. López de Ocariz what fracking is to you. Whatever happens, some talk about Zapatero (which, as I already told Mr. Barrio, was less bad that it existed, because, if not, it would have to be invented in this House)... And, Mr Otero, the issue of fracking does not apply to any use and condition, and, of course, less to try to question this Member of Parliament, and less to you to tell me. Whenever you want, we'll talk about fracking all you want, and we'll see who was more generous and got more agreement, whether you, the head of the platform, or my party. Whenever you want, because what you cannot do is pretend to cheat, and you have made this debate the ceremony of confusion. Show me Ipad, show me data, show me graphs... and, if you want, a printed Iberdrola sign. Do whatever you want, but you here have brought an initiative... And I say "you have brought" because, although it comes from Elkarrekin Podemos, you act as a kind of coalition government, something similar to the PNV and the Socialist Party. But to reach an agreement you have to want to reach, and you have not wanted to reach any agreement. They passed a text and said, "Would you sign?". Man, no. It's just like some of us have a lot in politics, some of us have a lot in politics, some of us don't, and some of us forget the past, but that's not negotiation, not for a non-law proposition or for nothing. And you have brought here a shared concern, which is how high the prices are in the light and the bills, and it is as serious as there are people who have to go to non-governmental organizations to help them pay the bill. And your intervention seems to me to be a bit of a blow, Mr Otero, because, of course, to get to the solution of the problem, the solution is not to mess with Iberdrola, which for me is not an enemy, and for you yes. The solution is not to say what a MEP does. It's not. It's not. Because you, I tell you again, look at what you vote for in Madrid and look at what you stand for in other institutions, because, as I say, the initiative that I have spoken to you has been signed by Mr. Oscar Matute, who, as far as I know, belongs to that bench, which until recently we shared company. I mean. So, so far away you are not from what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party defends on the subject of energy, eh! Neither. It doesn't look like me, I say. And then, continuing with this, Mr. Martinez was telling us that the glue we've had is to do the study. Indeed. For what? Why do you want to do a study? For what? What is the purpose of this study? Are you going to solve and answer the citizens, yes or no? For what? You only want to look for confrontation, because for you the headline of the newspaper is more important, if anyone picks it up at 5:53, than really do politics. Because you've been looking for something that the government might find inappropriate or inappropriate to not reach an agreement, and I've just said, "Let's join the political forces for the benefit of the citizen who gets the bill he can't pay, and let's put aside reports and reports that aren't worth anything." And in this case this is worthless, and you know it. And it turns out that you, who signed a compromise amendment today (the only ones), came down to this rostrum the second time and did not talk about your initiative! They have dedicated themselves to trying to find something that the Socialist Party, speaking of mine, seems to have stopped doing, and it turns out that the four points (auditory, reform, state pact...) were presented by Mrs Pilar Lucio, who, as far as I know, is a socialist MP from Extremadura. And you, in favor. Great! What I tell you is that we are in the Basque Parliament, that we are doing politics for the Basques, and that it is true that many times, Mr Martínez, you can talk about this and what you want... Because debate yes, everything. Confused, no. And they have brought something that affects the citizen and that knows what matters and that the responsible political parties get involved, to end up talking about things that have nothing to do with it. And then, I say again, the policy of what is possible. We have to do a responsibility exercise to solve problems. Do you want to tell me, with what you proposed, whether we are able to modify the system we have today so that the citizen has to pay less, so that the citizen understands the bill of light, so that there is more transparency? Well, no! It's not true! And you use what the citizen cares about to talk about things that have nothing to do with it. And it's not about some of us carrying more and some of us carrying less. Don't say you've been listening, I don't know how long, because, with all due respect, it's been a short time. Still what they have to hear! One who's been here for a few years, tells her that my party has a lot. So let's not have the skin so soft, because here you have to hear, and to not hear you have to propose, and to propose you have to be able to agree, and to be able to agree you have to have generosity. And that's what you haven't learned yet, but I trust you. And then, last thing, for Mrs. López de Ocariz. I don't doubt the officials, and when it comes to an independent audit, it's not because you doubt the staff, and you know it. And that's not what you play with. That's not what you play with. Because they have also been officials when he has ruled a party that was not the People's Party. I am glad that you agree with Mrs Lucio's initiative, I am very pleased, because it seems that you are going to vote in favour. And then one thing that has made me very graceful, which we have been commenting on in the rostrum (term, president), which told Mr.Gajales that the People's Party has done is to order this from renewable energies. But it's just that you guys have a way of sorting out a little aggressive. And then we were talking about an example, so that everyone would understand us about doing politics for the citizens. This is like when you tell your son to pick up the room because all the toys are wasted: the order of the People's Party is "I throw the toys out the window." Indeed, if you look back, the room is neat. That is what you have done with renewable energies: you have put up premiums, you have drowned them, and indeed the situation is like this. So, I'm glad you all agree...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u125	Thank you, Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u126	... on the initiative of the Socialist Party. And to the rest... finally, of course, this is how we miscarry this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u127	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I seem to have explained myself fatal in the first intervention, because no one has understood me. Mr Otero, I believe that in my first explanation it was quite clear why we were not going to support your compromise amendment, both in substance and in form, but I have no problem repeating it to you. With regard to the first point of his proposal, we sincerely believe that the Basque Parliament is calling on the National Commission on Markets and Competition to make a toast to the sun. I think they'll be working, and if anything they've found, they'll have already said it. Moreover, it is an organ which, as I say, is at present even limited in its functions. In paragraph 2, we agree with subparagraph (c) and we agree with subparagraph (d), which are included in the amendment we were making. We do not agree with points (a) and (b), and not because we fear companies fiercely, but because we really believe that this is a liberalised market and that what it needs is real competition. And I told him in my first speech: I am not going to take anyone who we do not agree on how companies do it, but that is 35% of the bill, and we believe that from the policy at the moment it is much easier to influence, if there is will, the other 65. Therefore, I too show you my goodwill and ask you to join our amendment, which is indeed a minimum common denominator in this case. Mrs. López de Ocariz either... or she didn't hear me right, or she didn't want to hear me, or it's all worth it here. Because what I never do when I come down to this rostrum is neither to lack people, nor to lack the truth. I didn't make any jokes. This isn't a joke. Needless to say, this increase in prices is going to intensify the reduction in disposable income, both for households and businesses, leading to a loss of competitiveness. So, joke the fair ones. I have simply said that it is worrying that the government in office, in this case that of the People's Party, will make us a man of time (the Minister), or a chronicler of reality. I know how you get the invoice numbers, but under no circumstances have I wanted to make a joke about it. I have wanted, and for that there is the Journal of Sessions, to make it clear that what is worrying is that a government tells us what the problems are but does not put a single measure to solve. I believe that among the various functions that those who exercise their responsibility as ministers are to adopt solutions quickly but not necessarily superficially, and to be cautious in statements and not to generate social alarm. And that is precisely what the Minister has done. This is a joke, Mrs. López Ocariz. And, to conclude, simply, as you have given Eurostat data which you have conveniently twisted... You have given us the price of megawattage; that is, you have somehow set aside everything else, which is exactly what we were criticizing the rest of the groups, what is inflating the bill by decision of the People's Party Government at this time. I am also going to read something that says Eurostat textually, and that is that "of the large consumers of electricity, whose annual consumption is between 70,000 and 150,000 megawatts, it is concluded that on average Spanish companies pay very expensive electricity kilowatts, above 22% of the European average, and, if compared specifically with countries such as France or Germany, the industry in Spain pays 33% and 27% more, respectively". And more here, because they make us pay extra tolls. Therefore, Mrs López de Ocariz, I do not know whether it is pathetic or not, but, I insist, without missing people and without missing the truth. Eskerrik asko, president andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Finally, the American Basque Group is represented by Mrs. López de Ocarariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u130	Yes, briefly. Mr. Martinez told me, he was talking about the Foreign Affairs Committee. Well, well, that can help you, for example, to go to Venezuela for a visit or something. I mean, they'll probably take it with affection and they'll use it. He was talking to me about self-consumption. Look, we with self-consumption are only against it being able to increase the fixed cost of those who do not make self-consumption. Here the fixed cost we pay among all, because we will all have the availability to give the key and that everything works. Therefore, fixed costs must be paid among all, not that those who do not make self-consumption will pay the fixed costs of those who make self-consumption. We don't agree on that, you put yourselves in the same way you do. Well, we were talking about the tariff system. Mr Grajales told me about Eurostat data, but I have the graph here. Look – and I say to Mr Otero – at the final price of industrial electricity consumers, we are on the average in Europe. In the middle. They are below France and Finland, and above Italy, Greece and Germany. Here's the thing, that's the way it is! I didn't make it up, I copied it. Come on, it's on the page. In the domestic consumer we are above, that's right. So... But we have a very unique energy mix, and we, Spain, have 42% of energy..., adding the renewable plus the hydraulics. Those are rigid energies, which when you can accumulate that energy is going to be fantastic, but in the meantime, when it doesn't work, when we don't have volume of water or when we don't have wind, when we don't have sun, we have to use those other energies that are expensive. Sure! As I say, what does Germany do? He uses coal. Do you agree to use coal? Shall we switch to coal instead of gas? We're gonna get cheaper, huh! We can do it! Do we? I think it is a bet that is not easy to solve, but I think the government is resolving it well. I've been told earlier by the PNV spokesman for the Basque industries and that 30 kilowatt claim. Well, you are well aware of the report of the National Commission on Market and Competition. The report is negative. They know that the limit has been reached, and wanting to go beyond it is considered a State aid. Therefore, it would go to the fixed cost, to be paid among all. Hey, what are you gonna do to us, increase the fixed cost more? Sure! Look, the truth is, we haven't finished understanding them. I think it's an out-of-place claim right now. But I ask the Basque Nationalist group... I have here a document, the 2012-2016 government program. And you know what you said in that document? "Euskadi is a country that has been developing its own energy model for more than thirty years." Hey, you want to tell me where your own energy model is? Thirty years, when in Álava we have to import 90% of the energy we consume, in Gipuzkoa we have to import 90% of the energy we consume, in Bizkaia 70%? Where's your own energy model? I can't wait to see it! Looking forward to it! Because we're talking here about what Madrid does. Hey, you're 30 years old! Look, two years ago, in 2015, Mr. lehendakari said, "We're going to be the top ten of renewable energies." We're the tail guys. Spain goes very well, but the Basque Country in renewable energies, in the tail. And where is this own energy model that you said five years ago, that is, in 2012? Ladies and gentlemen, really, what I was saying to you: it is very easy to criticize the outsider, but what is wrong with you? We continue in Zen politics: in doing nothing, in criticizing the Government of Spain, which is your hobby, is where you are freed up. But here the citizens have problems and we have to solve them and solve them, and you do not take any action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. End of discussion, we'll vote together for the Middle Amendment of Podemos and EH, which has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u132	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u133	So we vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-16.u134	As equality exists, it will be left for the next whole meeting. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and 9 p.m.
