ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. The third point is left for another; the one and two points will be discussed after the eighth point, and remember that there is blood in the vote at noon, and that at the moment when we interrupt, we will do them all at once. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspilla Group to encourage families to assist them. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u1	Gracias. Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Well, first of all, I would like to regret that Mr Lehendakari is not in this debate today, an important debate, and that he has decided to cross the puddle for other purposes. But, well, I think it would have been good, especially given that it is the people's government, to be in a debate where we talk about family policies. This is the second time that this group has presented an inquiry into this matter in this legislature. The previous inquiry also motivated a motion that resulted in an agreement that this group abstained from considering it insufficient. Again, this group has decided to introduce an interpetion and motion, because we finally see that family politics are not a priority for this government, and that it was necessary to have an answer from this point of view, so that we introduced the interpelation and now presented the motion. In the previous motion, at the request, as I say, of the initial proposal of the People's Party, an agreement was reached in which this group abstained from considering it insufficient. On the one hand, duties were placed on the Government to evaluate the Third Family Plan. This assessment was carried out within two months, which was the basis of the agreement. Furthermore, it was also pointed out in that agreement to urge the Government to refer a family strategy. I have to remember that the lehendakari already in the general policy plenary of 2015 was talking about the referral of the family strategy to this House. I would also like to recall here that the previous Employment and Social Policy Councillors pointed out that they had a draft of the family strategy. And I have to say here too that the counsellor also undertook, as a process of reflection is under way, to bring that family strategy as soon as possible, which was the agreement of 9 March. After eight months, we see we don't have that family strategy. And we also have to say that the lehendakari himself, in a pre-election act on family policies, conditioned an investment of 200 million euros to the aforementioned strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, not having a strategy for the family and children here yet, when, as I say, the lehendakari was already telling us in 2015 that it was near to arrive, that even the previous government, also presided over by the lehendakari, was telling us that there was a draft, supposes that the promise of the lehendakari is not being fulfilled, is not being fulfilled. Especially considering that if the strategy is brought in, as the adviser said in the inquiry, in the first quarter of 2018, then the budgetary appropriations linked to the above-mentioned family strategy will not be seen, at best, until the 2019 budget. I mean, at best. Therefore, I think we are talking about something that is slowing down, and for us unjustifiably. We know that there is already a possible draft, that allegations are being made by the associations, but, as I say, this strategy, for our group, is late. And, apart from the importance of the strategy, because it will mark the orientation of family policies in the Basque Country over the next few years, this strategy derives from the Fourth Family Plan, and it should be noted that we are also considerably behind in the Government's referral of the Fourth Family Plan to this Parliament. The previous family plan, the 3rd Family Plan 2011-2015, ended in 2015, and today, November 2, 2017, we do not have the 4th Family Plan. Of course, if it is also linked to the family strategy, obviously, it cannot be. And at best, if the strategy arrives, according to the advisor's commitments, in the first quarter of 2018, then the plan will arrive in the spring-summer, also in the best of the cases. That is, for us, for the People's Group, family policies are a priority, and we want to denounce again in this rostrum, from the People's Party, the inaction of this Government, the lack of decision with a determined impulse of family policies in our community. The evaluation of the III Family Plan, which was carried out, as I say, at the initiative of the People's Party, indicated very worrying data, but very worrying data that were already noted in the extraordinary report of the Ararteko of 2014, where an analysis and a diagnosis of the situation of Basque families was made. I therefore believe that there were enough alerts in the data from successive reports (studies, surveys...) to know that the policy of this Government, of Mr Urkullu's Government, needed a change in family matters. The advisor herself in response to the previous inquiry told us that birth had fallen by 2.8% in 2015 and by 2.1% in 2016, and the evaluation report of the III Family Plan indicated that birth would fall by 22% in 2016-2025. If we add to this the ageing of the population, and if we add to this the increase in dependent people, I believe that we have a structural problem in relation to family policies, linked to the low birth rates, the high degree of ageing and dependence of our population, which requires effective solutions, concrete solutions, medium- and long-term solutions, which we do not see for the moment by this Government. "Reeción con seguir poniendo debes a este Gobierno, hemos considerado ostratuno esterone estea." We think it's proper, once again we've seen the role of this government, to set up duties for this government. And that's why we introduced the motion, the motion we're discussing today. I'll explain the proper text. In the text of the motion, at the first point, we urge the Basque Government to draw up and forward before the end of the session the family strategy from which the fourth plan derives. That is to say, the councilwoman told us about the first quarter of 2018; we believe that we must now move forward with the referral of this strategy for families and children, and that it should therefore be drawn up and referred to the Basque Parliament before the end of this session, that is, before December 2017. On the other hand, we also place duties on this Government in relation to the IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan, which, as I have already pointed out, derives from the strategic plan: it is referred to in the first quarter of 2018. On the other hand, it seems to us absolutely essential and that it is being negotiated with the groups supporting the Government. For the time being, Madam President, we have not reached an agreement, but, since today we also have the opportunity to vote at the end of this Parliament's sitting on the blood donation campaign, let us hope that we can reach an agreement in the morning. We planned to increase aid to families with children by 50%, gradually extending from two to three years, the financial aid for the second child. This is something that was in the previous agreement; we abstained, because we considered it somewhat insufficient. This is a step forward, but we believe that over a four-year period this government can make much more progress in family policies, aid, amounts and duration of such aid. That is why we were also planning to increase the support of third and successive children, both in terms of their size and their duration, and let us hope that we can reach an agreement here. On the other hand, we also refer in one of the points to something agreed in the budgets, which has to be effective already in the budgets of 2018, which is the reduction of 7% foreseen in the laws of budgets since the financial year 2012. It should be noted that, in a very concrete scenario of economic recession, the amounts were reduced, both in conciliation aid and in family aid. Mr Urkullu's executive, who so much denounced this 7 % decrease in the previous four years, did not eliminate that reduction. And we have considered it appropriate, as a People's Group, also to incorporate that forecast into the budgetary agreement, which we materialized last year and which refers to that this decrease will occur progressively throughout 2018 and beyond. Therefore, these are the points that we consider essential to address in a debate of these characteristics, when we talk about family policies. We believe that it is important that the family and children's strategy be referred to this House now. We believe that it is also important, and immeasurable, that the Fourth Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support be referred to. We believe that it must already materialise, and that the decree referred to by the honourable Member on this issue must already be drawn up, so that once and for all the increase in aid in an annuality, from two to three years, for the second child can materialize. And also that, in an indefatigable way, there is also an increase in support for third parties and their children, also taking into account the problems we have at the moment at birth. Undoubtedly, the aid is not sufficient, but it must be said that both the Ararteko report of 2014 and the evaluation of the family plan itself make a very positive assessment of this aid, and there are very large percentages of Basque society who believe that this aid should be increased in order to facilitate the reconciliation of family and work life, and also to support families to have children. I therefore believe that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. I understand that there is a chance of agreement, but we, as a People's Group, do demand greater commitment from this Government, from the groups that support the Government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party). We believe that it is time to go far beyond the mere words and letters that are put on the electoral programmes or on the government's own programme, and I therefore hope that this commitment can materialize throughout this morning in an agreement, in the terms that this group has announced. That is why, Madam President, in the course of the morning we hope that we will be able to present a compromise in the terms I have announced, in relation to the motion raised. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u2	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Together, the Podemos team values the roles of families to help. It's very important to expand and penetrate the discussion about it, so we welcome all the policies that have to aid families. In this speech, therefore, I will reaffirm what my colleague Jon Hernández already presented in the motion of 9 March, because we understand that this debate is the same again. Today, as at the time, we reaffirm our support for support for families, both by birth or adoption and especially for reconciliation, and we will also defend the need for economic aid to be complemented by other policies that ensure that all families and their members can develop full lives. We cannot share the initiative of the People's Party, because it only promotes part of family policies, and we therefore consider it insufficient. It seems that they do not really want to address the causes that motivate many people or families to be unable to cope with a project of life with freedom, cannot be fully developed or even meet their needs. The MP of the People's Group mentioned in the February interpellation, then in the March motion, two weeks ago in the interpellation, and also in today's intervention, the Ararteko report of 2014. It has highlighted some of the things that that report was moving, which we agree with, but it has not highlighted some of the conclusions and recommendations that we believe are also important. For example, those related to difficulties in the emancipation of young people and young people, the limited and late development of policies for reconciling family, work and personal life in a professional framework of great hourly dedication, the need for support to the vulnerable family, or the lack of cross-cutting. In the speech we agree, but then we come to the concrete proposal and we do not find sufficient measures to promote policies that address some of these problems. But it is also in other initiatives and debates that we find proposals from your parliamentary group that simply cut subjective rights and implement policies that are not aimed at a more just and supportive society. But it's not just that. They also make a difference to us in terms of substance, approach and vision on how to address social policies, and more specifically family investment policies. And as an obvious example of your position in relation to income guarantee income, a position that puts at risk the access to an economic benefit of so many vulnerable families, of which you only agree in the speech, or only remember a part of them, as if the purchasing loss of the families perceiving GIR did not affect their precariousness, as if it were not equally unfair to them the extraordinary reduction of 7%. Today, as in March, it seems that your parliamentary group could reach an agreement with Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists. We are not going to say that you, all of you, have not made an effort, but it seems that we have not succeeded. And we have not done so because closing this agreement or this proposal for us would mean closing the possibility of a broader and deeper debate on the causes behind the difficulties of so many families in Euskadi. We believe that the problem of conception is fundamental, model, and therefore insufficient. We believe that the proposals that are put on the table today would re-edit an agreement that does not cease to be a sham for a structural and fundamental problem. Let us see, however, what agreement they are able to reach, if they do, and on the basis of the content we will define our voting position. From Elkarrekin Podemos, together with EH Bildu, whom we thank for the availability to reach an agreement, we propose the same thing we already said in March. Because supporting families involves designing and promoting policies from an integral perspective: employment policies, housing policies, co-responsibility policies, reconciliation and care, with all economic benefits and always incorporating the gender and diversity perspective as elements that must be present, all of them. Because improvement of certain economic aid can be promoted and it is undeniable that this would mean progress, but if this weakens the income guarantee system, if we do not have quality jobs, if we do not bet decisively on co-responsibility and conciliation, or if we do not clearly push policies to guarantee the subjective right to housing, those who can become a family will have to continue to juggle in order to arrive at the end of the month or to be able to decide freely on what future they want. In Euskadi, most people who cannot freely emancipate themselves or choose to have children do so because of difficult access to housing, economic or labour issues. A clear example is the percentage of single-maritime families at risk of social exclusion, the feminization of poverty and its infantilization (these are two closely linked phenomena that we need to address), but there is also a diversity of family arrangements in Basquedi that do not find recognition or support in institutions. And in Euskadi there are also many families who decide not to expand because still today the reconciliation falls in particular on women, those who directly end up taking over practically all the reproduction and care and household work. In this circumstance, being a large family is a triple mortal leap. We do not know what agreement they are going to be able to reach, but of course in the proposals put forward by both the proposing group and the groups supporting the Government this variant shines because of its absence. And these are some of the issues that are essential to our training, all with a common root: greater public involvement, a powerful public sector, and a radical change in labour and social rights are needed. We believe that some of these things separate us from some of you, and we hope to be able to continue working, within the framework of the strategy or in the agreement that can be reached, to bring positions closer together. Because of course we see the need to push forward a pact to address policies, a pact in which we seek not revenues, but in which we seek comprehensive agreements and improvements. When we talk about family support policies, in Elkarrekin's view We can talk about comprehensive policies, and not plot the vision to a mere economic or insufficient issue, which would also be inconsistent with the position we defended in March. As insufficient we believe it would be to focus the solution of low birth rate only with a policy of impulse to have more sons and daughters. Our March and this week's amendment are raised from this comprehensive and ambitious vision, and we prefer to invite you to vote on it, so that comprehensive policies allow Basque citizens to approach their lives with more and better guarantees. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u5	Mrs. Chair, good morning. Congressmen, all of you. The Basque Country is the means of supporting the Basque Family in order to produce policies that will place people and their welfare in the centre. On the whole, many ends of thread, many cares, and many things to be considered, whether all were connected with well-being and rights. To protect and defend the families is to defend the life quality of the members which compose this family, and especially to defend the children which compose it. And so it is to defend our future. The Basque Country Group thinks it ought to be a universal view of protecting people's rights in the middle of families, so we may say that we speak of some fairly substantial and highly effective accounts when talking about family protection. Historically, the mass of public measures for support in families is composed of several administrations, and several views, or abdication. With the three plans which have come after the 13/2008 law and its development tools, to aid the families, the opportunity of setting up their own policy for helping them. Our group will not deny that specific policies have taken steps in the way to protect and development of families; but there is still a great distance between the most beautiful for the protection of families, and the most advanced politics which have been encouraged in the countries around us. Several features can be set as characteristic of the euscal system to aid families. The family reading about the plan evaluation. The family view has just been considered in the institutions, and we may say that this view has but little influence. Also, in high-effect sectors (e.g., on job-politics) this view of families is still missing. As far as the resources of the family are concerned, this member of the community is in the last stages of Europe. Things are slow. That's also explained by Mrs Garrido, and we're late for this development of plans. The economic help system causes great differences in that. This system reflects a remarkable weakness, for only families with sufficient incomes can use this system efficiently, so at least it is controversial. Besides, we see every year how these helps are used for the support of families and for their children are not exhausted and never spent. That, too, we think, is a matter of consideration. There are some consequences which are to be alluded to in this evaluation of the third plan, which appear in the neighbourhood of economic aids, but there is one which has specially called attention: It is said that in order to support the family economic aids, there was no end to the welfare of the children, and the welfare of the children in a more economical state, around three tools which have been importantly implanted: to ensure incomes for incomes, to increase nutrients of food around the foundation, and for the social security of the children of the century. That, too, seems to us to be in consideration. Although the third plan has made great and singular efforts, the development of families, labors, and personal lives is but small. We applaud the attempts we have made in this sense, but we are also concerned with them, for most of them still place themselves in the public sector, and many of them are still experienced pilots, and there are no more of them. As it appears in the evaluation of the plan, the inhabitants tell us that it is very difficult to provide for labour and children of small age. The pretty ones who have a high influence on families are of great importance in the euscal system of the pretty families, and are often careful to attend to the families who are in society. And this is a very important element for us, considering that in the last few months we are engaged in the discussions of many of them, and that we have even the discussion of budgets, in which limited views are preserved. And lastly, it must be remarked that there are few measures which are expressly established for the preservation of the specific wants of other family qualities, which are in a state of weakness; in such cases may be the parents of one member, the parents of the same sex. If there are designs on them, these principles wish to be considered, but we still lack development. And as for the Basque families, it may be said that it is not tender: We are a society of old age; the data indicates that we have not all the same rights to be parents; we don't want data in the well-being of family members, but there are a lot of people who want to form a family and to postpone that decision, and it's about 30 years old that our don't belong to our donations. Besides, 9% of this member's children live in a state of poverty, and many of those poor children, 20 percent, will be poor even in the future. In this community poverty is concentrated on families, not only in families with children of a minor age. Many of the cases of sexual violence and aggression are given in the family atmosphere, as we have often heard in this legislature. 20% of the families in this community indicate that he is anxious for the future of his children. unemployment and employment are for most families one of the most important problems, and more and more are the families in which all its members are unemployed. The caremaking still rests upon women, and motherhood and parenthood do not live in equal intercourse. And, well, we can continue to express the reality that lies behind the picture of the Basque Family, but I believe that the data and the evaluation itself give us knowledge of it. I think we'll all share that. And we have to move forward and go on together, and we think that this is what we need to do to protect the families to make a deep reflection about our pretty ones. And that's also explained in the plan's evaluation. That's why we planned to give a monographic discussion about this, so as to reflect on everything we've done, to study efficiency, and to mark that direction together. And it appears to us also that there is a chance, because Mrs Garrido has mentioned the commitments taken by the President in this sense, and that recently the chief physician mentioned the strategy of protecting the families, and that the family had signed a large alliance to protect them; and that it is necessary to speak, it is necessary that some of them should take care of our views in some way and others. And I dare say, too, that we have an opportunity of meeting with this subject these days, that we are getting closer and closer to each other, and that we may have a chance to get to harmony, but that's why we need to sit down and start talking. And we need to look at Europe, and we can even look closer to Navarre, because, well, in this plan of helping families, there's been a major progress, isn't it? The Fourth Family Support Plan should respond, from our point of view, to the need to establish a new strategy of action that responds in a contextualized manner, in time and in form, to new emerging realities and problems, to which existing family policies are not being able to respond. And in this sense we see that there has not been much altered in the matter proposed here from March. We've come back to an agreement with Podemos, but we've still got a chance to get other settlements while the morning is over. But it is true, for us, that there is difficulty about two elements; On the one hand, the difficulties which they have proposed to support the families seem to us to be a decision of size and demand any further consideration; and, on the other hand, we see that, in the removal of the restrictions, these restrictions to the families have been abolished, but here, in the budget projects, and the restrictions which have been followed by supplementary regulations, have taken effect, e.g. those restrictions which have been given to the families by means of additional regulations, such as those which have been given around RGI. And that seems to us to place us in two different areas. We can't take down the restrictions for some people and keep them from others, because they only apply to those who need them the most. I hope, then, that we may open the way to this agreement in the morning, but if we do not, we shall remain ours, and support our agreement with Podemos, and determine our vote according to the terms you agreed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u7	Yes, thank you, President. Socialists defend the subjective right to conciliation, and the institutions must guarantee it with public services that make it possible. But what we are being brought here today is not that, it is more of an aidist debate, which we believe we must overcome in order to seek policies that are maintained in the longer term within the family and children. And what we Socialists propose is that the law guarantees us all to take care of our families without penalizing career paths or work interests. To that end, the institutions must promote conciliation measures in the field of work. We'll all have to take care of dependent people in our lives, our children... That is why social services are needed to enable family members to continue with a normalized life without neglecting their own. The socialists have been the great drivers, in Spain and in the Basque Country, of social rights, pensions, health, education..., and we are not tired of claiming that we must build without further delay the foundations of the fourth pillar of the welfare state, that of social protection, with a similar, not subsidiary, non-assistanceist approach, but with social services that guarantee the right, in this case, to reconcile work and family life, taking care of caregivers and dependents. And as long as this does not happen, as long as we do not strengthen this fourth pillar, as long as we do not have measures to facilitate the hourly reconciliation to care for our sons and daughters, aid will be necessary. Because the system fails, the system will continue to fail, and aid will continue to be necessary if we do not take this issue seriously. That in this ageing Euskadi we must encourage care for dependents, but we must also encourage parents to have the children they want, without fear of losing their jobs or well-being. Today, efforts should focus more on those who have suffered the most from the austerity policies of recent years: those who are unemployed should not stop training or seeking new employment because they have to care for their child or an older person, making it more difficult for them to enter the labour market; those who have seen their wages cut to their family members without further reducing their income and being unable to pay an alternative; single-parent heads of families should not continue to juggle to take care of their relatives; young people should not have to wait forever to exercise their free right to be fathers and mothers; everyone should be able to choose their family model, without risking exclusion. And it is that the increase in precariousness, job insecurity, high housing prices, among other issues, have affected the birth rate and conditions of children. The aid must ensure such reconciliation in these circumstances. And, for everyone, what needs to be done thinking about the present, but especially in the future of Euskadi, is to complete the elaboration of a Basque investment strategy in families and children. And it is that this strategy would be desirable if it were to be implemented with the greatest possible consensus, because the results of the strategies are achieved over the years, and that requires a comprehensive strategy, which does not change every little while, but is maintained and sustained, so that the desired results are achieved in the long term, that birth rates can be improved, and that this strategy involves employers, trade unions and other organisations, including the third sector. A strategy that must go hand in hand with cultural and social change. This strategic plan will be completed within the first quarter of 2018, and before the end of the year we will have the 4th Family Support Plan. Yes, I imagine that we will try to reach an agreement before we finish this morning sitting today and before the vote, because I believe that the compromise amendment that we have tabled on the table is making a lot of progress in this whole field, apart from including other issues that I will later mention. It allows us to move forward in this direction, and participation is being given to employers, trade unions and third-sector organisations to develop this strategy. And the delay has come precisely from the fact that these employers and trade unions and these organisations have called for an extension of the deadline to complete and complete precisely all that is the text of this strategy. That is why we consider it important, and because we have given that importance to the maximum consensus we thought it was important also to extend that deadline, but, in any case, the very proposal that we have put on the table already proposes that it should be completed and finalised before the end of the first quarter of 2018. And it must be developed and completed, among other plans, with the Fourth Family Support Plan before the end of this session. Because with more older people, with functional limitations, and with the need to promote the freedom to have children, the reconciliation of family and work life is a game of juggling, which, beyond economic issues, affects personal and professional development itself and equality between men and women. The Socialists' bet, therefore, is to move forward with this strategy, which is to remain longer-term. We can't just do things that have been shown not to work on their own. Not only do short-term policies, but we must move towards a European model, with better maternity and paternity permits, with more flexible working hours (but at the worker's request, not by the employer's imposition, because that achieves the opposite effect, as is the case right now), improve the working conditions of young people so that they can undertake their life plan and have children whenever they want, and not delay it because of the current economic difficulties. We place our goal on universality, and that, the subjective right for all, will come from the construction of that fourth pillar of the welfare state and an integral system of social protection. If we do, the debate will no longer be only about subsidies, but in the meantime it is good to continue to improve on social aid. I believe that the proposed compromise amendment, which is on the table, not only increases what I have pointed out, but also raises a 50% increase in this aid over the course of the parliamentary term, in addition to what has been increased in the budgets of previous years, which I believe is progressing quite well there. And in the end, in order to reach an agreement, we are being distanced from just one word in one sentence, with one of the groups, at least with the People's Party at the moment. Maybe we can move forward, but I see it a little more complicated with the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu group. On the other hand, it is also aimed at progressively eliminating, from the 2018 financial year to the end of the parliamentary term, the 7% reduction provided for in the budget laws, in terms of financial aid for children and the reconciliation of family and work life. I think it takes one step further and makes further progress, and it also refers to incorporating as principles and axes of intervention the best interests of the child, to whom a family strategy always has to refer. It also refers to co-responsibility and gender equality, within that strategy and plan, which is also important enough to move forward with that new model. And on the other hand, and finally, it refers to recognizing and supporting family diversity, in order to establish the same degree of recognition of social protection for all children, regardless of the type of family they live in. I think it goes much further, and this compromise amendment also contains contributions that have been presented by the different groups. Not only by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups and the People's Group, it also contains points that were already included in the amendments to the whole carried out by the EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos group. I think we could make an effort to try and reach an agreement, because the sum of all the points I think is making a lot of progress. And if we fail to reach an agreement, then, logically, our group, the Basque Socialists, and the Basque Nationalist Group will vote for our amendment as a whole. But I think it would be a pity, because the compromise amendment that has been tabled is quite broad and I believe it is moving along the lines in which all groups want it to move forward. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u8	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u9	Chief of Parliament, ma'am, Congressman, good day to all. The principles which tend to the use of the Jestle Party in families and childhood are the same as the Convention of the Rights of the United Nations. Our efforts do not repeat the disadvantages between generations, in order that it is absolutely the fundamental investment of Euskadi, and also that the immediate contribution, the intelligent growth, the bearable, and the integrated increase may be given. In the opinion of the Jestle Party, early intervention and prevention are indispensable in the pursuit of more efficient and efficient family policy. In the first years of life we defend ourselves from correcting disadvantages, because it is important to double our efforts in the struggle against poverty and in general against social shores. We believe that the most effective prevention is acquired by integrated strategy, by combining with children of quality, health, apartment, and social services with parents, so that the children may use their full powers and have less weakness. It is from the starting-point that we need to promote a public society, so that both parents participate in productive duties and labor, and even upon the model of a double recipient and watcher. We have one of the most useful policies for birth-rate politics, and one of the most useful remedys against child-pobracy, and besides, a remedy which protects women and children best in the family affairs of couples. It is evident that the descent of births is directly connected with the economic cycle; The principal cause of low fertility concerns the conditions on which the birth of the second and succeeding children is enabled or hindered, the question of association, confined to one child, increases in a decisive manner with or with two children. All that concerns the life of persons and families, the view of their future, affects the determination of their couples, the determination of their father and mother, and the number of their children to whom they will be. This is why the policy which directs birth to protect them is directly connected with the most attractive of families, and the activity of the world includes all the habits of government. This is why, in our opinion, the discussion of measures to assist families ought to be established beyond those of money. According to what has been said, the time has come to open the phase of a wider strategy, in which, according to the number of children, the budget of a specific economic aid to the family has to be left behind, experience shows us that a direct relationship cannot be established between the supply and birth of economic preparation given to families. And, on the other hand, what we need is, mostly the help services that will lead to the structure of a social time which will be more difficult for us with our wants. That's why we feel that every family structure requires an integrated support strategy with families that can guarantee that it's the same level of confession and social protection. To invest in the family, to reduce the social diversity attached to the family structure, and to secure the welfare of all children, as a basis for the idea, whatever kind of family these children live or live. The measures which we plan from the Julian side have a variety of dimensions of character, and affect the several parts of public politics; in education, in equality, in the house, in the security of money, especially in culture and health police. The discriminating of the jurisdictions of Euscal Autonomy, must necessarily be a strategy of the character of institutions, founded on a global agreement between Government, Aldudi, and municipal institutions, which will only be successful. In order to develop these engagements, beyond the complications of different departments and institutions, we consider the Euplic Party as essential to the participation of other social agents, and especially of those who have a right share in their social intercourse. The complication of unions and companies is inevitable, and especially when a social environment is created, in order to protect the more and more adapted families for their children, and to protect the structure of their structure. Economy aids are always welcome, but the influence of them must be considered, that in all families which are more socially profitable to invest in the same manner, or in the financial difficulties necessary to invest them more, it is not more profitable to allow assistance to the cooperation than the assistance of their children, and often the same degree of income does not afford the like economic capacity for family units in different compositions. In the government program, too, the increase of 50% of the financial budget in the area of families, and, as it is recorded in the government program, progressively lasts three years from the second child's economic aids, because there's one of the keys of this subject, the second children. The fundamental reason of the low fertility, in the institution, and special inspection of the European Union, agrees with the conditions in which the birth or hinder the birth of a second child, agrees. Therefore the help of the birth of this second child, is more important than the service of bondage for the birth of a second child, and the birth of a second child. All these are not new in the discussions we discussed, and the decision made by this legislature. So now, as the whole correction of this essay, we introduced the Sociistic Party and the Sociists of ours in full correction, and introduced the same person, in order to get out of the decision already adopted, and to obtain as wide as possible, as we are standing at the door of another time, and that time requires all of us. As the President said on the day of discussion in general politics, the demographic challenge is a popular challenge. It is the time of a more ambitious strategy that is not limited to an economic issue. This challenge is not the theme of fun, it's the different levels of organizations, social agents, families, and not the challenge of political controls: To acquire a popular authority for the family and childhood, and to represent the whole of public euscal policies to the model of social investment. For this purpose, the plans between family institutions are to be performed (in matters of simplicity, housing, education, or health). And the rest will be as a matter of principle and action for children to be taken as a subject of rights, according to the Convention of the Rights of the British Union, namely, the Convention of the Conventions of the children of the Vantals, the Coital, and the difference of the genus, or the difference of the family, as that of all the groups, which appear in the correcting of the different groups. But, of course, the social diversity and mobileness of choice or progressive universality and many other principles and axes. It's time to make deals. Therefore, as yet, we have not the right answer from the Popula and the rest of the crew, but I would ask you all one thing: if you do not intend to sign the medium which we have proposed to you, at least you do not vote against them. If the consensus cannot be positive, I should call it a negative consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing the answers, Mrs Garrido, Popular Party. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u11	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, in the same way, Mr. Faraway, and as the proposition of the Populative Party is to vote first or at first, I'd like to ask you the same question: The project of abscession would then be proposed by the Populative Party. I say that, in the same sense as Mr Urrutia proposes that we abstain in his proposal, since the proposal of the People's Party is voted on first, so that they abstain in the proposal of the People's Party, and that is how the proposal of the People's Party comes out. Well, I think there is a willingness to agree, and I am sure that in the course of the morning we will untie and agree on that paragraph, because I believe that in relation to the rest of the terms of the proposed initiative there is an agreement. To the ladies of Guanche and Kortja, I think it's a pity that they don't come to an agreement at last, because I think there are more points than points that separate our points in common, and I think the last goal is that Madame d'Artand of the Kotha, I think she's made it clear that she's finally mentioned her duty to the Euskion. We believe that we have the same discourse, and that with Mrs. Guanche the same things have not been done well, and ought to apply duties to the government; and therefore I think that we have more in common. It is true that we demand a greater leadership to encourage family politics, and this should be directed in different directions. We, with our initiatives, aim to increase the leadership of this government in family policies, which we have not seen so far, and we refer to the facts: delay in the strategy, when Mr Lehendakari told us that he was about to arrive in 2015, when there were already drafts in the previous legislature; delay in the plan, which has ended in 2015, and in 2017 still, about to end, we do not have a plan. We do agree with other interventions that have taken place in this rostrum. That you don't just have to talk about help. But for us the aid is very important, especially given that in the last report, in the evaluation of the III Family Plan, 88 % of Basque society considers that this aid is favourable and should be increased. And that percentage is also 83% when we talk about families who are old enough to raise their children. I therefore believe that there is an acceptance of this aid by families, and also in relation to whether it can be increased, a very important acceptance. Not just an acceptance, but a very important demand for them to increase. He has also drawn attention, and I imagine he has called all of you – which is a matter to be considered by this government – that this aid is very unknown. Only 50% of families are aware of the existence of these aids. I therefore believe that there too the Government must take specific action to turn this situation around. He said that we are not only talking about aid, but they do have to occupy a very important place. We're talking more public investment, conciliation, taxation... Well, today we also had breakfast with a disappointment, knowing..., well, today we are going to know the terms, but it seems that the fiscal proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party is not beneficial to Basque families. And I think that being able to negotiate more favourable taxation for Basque families could also give impetus to family policies. Remember, the OECD countries, which I said in a previous intervention, have not reduced support to families. Remember also the situation – and so much that we like to compare ourselves in Euskadi, or some like to compare so much, with OECD countries – because how are the aid in other countries, up to the age of eighteen: Germany, 184 euros per month; Norway, 125, and countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland and Austria, between 118 and 190 euros per month. Far from this convergence, which was already laid down in the Third Family Plan. And I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, in relation to the initial proposal of the People's Party, there seems to be an acceptance that the strategy is forwarded before the end of this session, and that the plan is forwarded in the first quarter of 2018. Nor is there a problem with the forecast of the budgetary agreement to reduce by 7% progressively from the 2018 financial year, the cut that has been taking place since 2012 in conciliation and family life aid. And let us finally see whether, at this key point, that is where the government has to make a commitment in relation to family support, instead of the term "study", which is what the groups that support the government want, because they do not want the term "increase", obviously because it speaks of a clear commitment in relation to this issue, so we can look for another term. But it has to be a term that certainly reflects some kind of commitment on the part of the Basque Government, because, if not, this agreement would also be left on wet paper. We hope, Mr Urrutia and Mrs Sánchez, that we can reach an agreement, and I regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement with the other groups, at least until now. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u12	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Well, we also take the advertising minute to ask you to also abstain from the proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, as it cannot be otherwise. And just mattify a few things. We believe that the approach to family policies, as well as the approach to birth-enhancing policies, must be an integral approach, and that is where the mummy of today's disagreement is. We are committed to measures that put reconciliation and care at the centre. We bet on measures that bet on quality employment; on measures that address inequality in access to employment, but also in access to wealth. And we also bet on measures that give rights to all the neighbours and neighbours who reside in Euskadi. In this sense, aid and benefits are a tool, not an end in themselves. In this sense, one of our limits, we will not deny, has been that impossibility of dialogue on the fact that the rise of 7% – which Mrs Garrido has expressed unfairly, and which Mr Urrutia has stated necessary and Mrs Sánchez too – is not integral to all those economic benefits to which it affects, because, de facto, the GIR also receives it from families. To accept this in some way is to accept that with one hand an unjust cut is maintained and, on the other hand, an unjust cut is eliminated. So, we're back in a situation where we don't solve the underlying problem. We have acknowledged in our initial speech that progress has been made in this negotiation. For the sake of the need for a consensus that we have not denied and that we believe is important, in March the position of our group was to abstain, and in the light of the agreement reached we will assess what our position will be in this paragraph. We are not giving a doorway, but putting our conditions and our limits on the approach of comprehensive policies. We approve positively some of the things that are on the table, because you cannot pretend to erase everything that is already done. We'll see what the deal is. We welcome the involvement of social actors, as it cannot be otherwise, but we continue to believe that there is a starting-point approach that generates inequality in the approach of those policies that help to reconcile, in the approach of those policies that support the ability of families to emancipate themselves or to have children, which is not being reflected in this agreement, nor was it reflected in the March agreement. And that's why we're simply going to express our position based on the agreement they reach. And I would like to invite you again to abstain from our proposal. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u15	Thanks again, ma'am. I'm going to begin my speech in the same way, and I'm going to invite you in front of our middle course, not to exaggerate, but to protect you, because after hearing what's been heard here, I'd say that the most complete position is taken in this middle-class position. For we agree here with many and many things, I think we have all employed the same scheme in discourses, and, in spite of ourselves, it is plain that it could not be otherwise, is it not? And even in the attempt to find an agreement, I believe that this closeness has been somehow discovered, and I dare say that there have been real attempts to make an agreement, and that we approach so far as we speak. But I dare say it would be in the same way the greatest obstacle to protect the initiative, because here it has been discussed with an integrated strategy of assistance, that is what the distant man has mentioned about us, and we also see in the like manner. In order to protect our children, he has mentioned certain difficulties which have been in these politics, and we have also mentioned in our discussions, and we agree in that. But for us, then, it is contradictory from the point of view of these integrated help strategy, then to an initiative that descends to such precise things. And again I repeat, I believe that in the manner in which the disagreements arise, in order to represent the action, more than the content which lies behind these undertakings. But for us again, this view is very narrow, for it is designed in action by a very particular thing, and out of this discourse it proceeds a little. And I understand, I understand that planning this way gives more headlines, but it doesn't agree with those who have been said here. And Mrs. Garrido said that we certainly had more points that united us than we were, and it might be true. It is true that I believe that things have been raised here in which there are broad agreements, and certainly when Mrs Artolazabal puts forward that family pact, then we have the opportunity to talk about them and we also come to points in common. What happens is that there is one element that is central that moves us very clearly away, and that is that we pose family policies to support all families. All of them. And the approach of reducing the additional provision, and this reduction only in the case of support measures for families, bearing in mind that, as already explained and already stated in the evaluation report, it is the families with the most difficulties who do not have access to such support, leaves a lot of families without the support they could have from these measures. And also because we enter into contradictions: we do these approaches of support to the family, and yet we support reductions that are given in other items that directly affect the situations of families with more need. And that element drives us away in a notorious way. And then I believe that in the attempt which has been made to unite things, even the Jeltist Party and the Socialist Party have won in content, which must be admitted. But one thing too calls me attention: the taking of the principle of the supreme interest of minors is thought to be very positive, but, for instance, this interest is not involved in the management of the revenue to secure incomes. Then it seems important to me, and I think it's very convenient to insert into these new policies, but I should, in some measure, ask you to act on all other methods of consistency. But, apart from those two points... I should say that we shall have a chance to talk about our different points and plans, and that we shall probably have a chance of understanding; not in this initiative, perhaps, but perhaps in the future strategy and planing. So, thank you all for trying, and we'll decide according to your text, whether we're going from the line of what the distance says or what we do or what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u17	Well, I think that after the different debates, and hearing the different political groups represented in the House, I think that in the speech in the background we all agree. I believe that we all believe that it is better to move forward and not just stay in welfare policies, which is demonstrated in many cases and in other countries that they themselves do not achieve a change in birth rates, in the current birth rate, if they are not accompanied by other policies. And those policies must also be maintained in the very long term, because the results of those policies cannot be seen from one day to the next, but that strategy must be maintained in a stable manner. And that is why I said in my first speech that it is important to get as much consensus as possible, because if it is agreed, if all the different parliamentary groups, and business and trade union organizations and associations, etc., and third sector organizations, have also made their contributions and agree with that strategy, it will logically have a much more positive impact over time, which is what this strategy is for. Then these strategies have to be translated into different plans, because it is very cross-cutting then, one of which, of which, is the Family Assistance Plan, apart from another bunch of plans that also have to develop that strategy that goes to families and children. I think today... Well, when the previous motion was tabled we rejected it because at the time the budgets had just been approved, there had been an increase in aid, which also coincided fairly with the motion's debate, and at the time it was rejected. I believe that right now we are at a different time (we already have at the door the strategy of support for families and minors, they will bring us within this session, before the end of the year, the Fourth Plan of Assistance to Families), and I believe that there we are more advanced than we were at that time, when we discussed the previous motion. And I believe that the inclusion of all the points contained in the compromise amendment that we were proposing is quite broad, and an effort had also been made within it, as I have already said, to pick up different points that are also logical in a strategy and that we believe it was good that they were included in the compromise amendment, as is the reference to minors or co-responsibility as well, and to family diversity. I believe that these are important points, that you have to take into account, that you will take that strategy into account, and that they have to be taken into account in this compromise amendment. I think they were positive in shaping precisely what the underlying philosophy is, and where that future strategy has to go, which is where the European model is going in other countries in Europe. And I believe that our proposal is quite complete and that it is progressing in a significant increase also, even in the short term, for the time being. Well, at least that'll do as long as we don't move forward in strategy and plans. Well, at least in the short term, it serves to improve a little bit and help families to foster that reconciliation. And our proposal is an increase of 50% throughout the whole legislature over what we have right now, and that is quite important. And, apart from the elimination of the 7% reduction, but to the area of reconciling family and working life, which is what we are dealing with today, the subject that we are dealing with today. And, therefore, I believe and hope that we can reach that agreement throughout the morning. Today we have that opportunity, as we vote at the end of the morning. And I hope that that will be the case, because I believe it will be positive and it also reflects very well where we have to go in the future, and that we are moving forward now, although that strategy has been somewhat delayed because the associations themselves have asked for it to achieve greater consensus. But, since we are here, let us move forward, and let us put it in place without further delay, because I think it is very necessary to achieve those necessary changes in this long-term policy. Because in this, as I said, little by little, the results are seen over time. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u18	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u19	Chief of Parliament. Well, I'd like to use this turn to comment on some of the things you said in the two cabins. Mrs Garrido said that there is neither the lehendakari nor the counselor, and it is that, if we change the time point, the agendas are often complicated. But he also said that this Government does not prefer family policies. Look, I'm not going to start detailing, I think that in the inquiry itself the counselor answered him properly. You were talking about a considerable delay in the Fourth Family Plan. It is that the IV Family Plan has to be the beginning of a new path. A new path that begins to develop that strategy that we are talking about and that we would, of course, like it to be as soon as possible, and, as stated in our compromise proposal, before the end of the current session. Something very curious is happening to me, Mrs. Guanche. Something very curious is happening to me. Look, I read Mrs Garrido's parliamentary initiative and I read the amendments both from you and from Mrs Kortajarena, and I think I am closer to Mrs Garrido; but then I hear you talking at the speaking level in the gallery, and I hear Mrs Kortajarena, and I think, "Well, if the difference is minimal!". The difference is minimal. What happens is that I would highlight there the difference in the vision of the will to agree. The will to agree cannot be, Mrs Guanche, it cannot be to establish a red line from which I do not move, and then I criticise that the one in front has not moved enough, when in reality the agreement would be perfectly possible even today. Because the truth is, I don't know, I don't know if you share the speech I made in the first round, I largely share yours, but it turns out that the agreement is not possible. Okay. Well, I'll stay with what Mrs. Kottaja said. On the first round he said that we're nearer and closer to the agreement, and I'm really glad to hear the confession of the effort. It is a poor consolation, but it seems that we must be left to-day with this consolation, because, after all, the problem is eternal: You two took RGI's flag and it's all RGI. Because we don't suggest it at the RGI as you wish, that's the problem today, for instance, not to make a deal. Look, I once read a reflection by Francesc Cambó, a Catalan politician from the first half of the 20th century, and said there were two ways to get to the disaster: one, to ask for the impossible, and two, to delay the inevitable. And I have the impression that something of that has happened to all of us here, probably to all of us, but something of that has happened to us. I do not know whether we will have an opportunity to correct it in the morning, but having heard Mrs Kortajarena how she ended up, I think not. But, well, we'll keep going. We'll keep going. Arrieros we are and on the way we will meet. We'll keep going. We will continue to try to reach agreements. For our part it will not remain, because moreover it is that in the proposed transaction proposal many are included... Not a part, a lot of the points. And I keep thinking, the problem is in the GIR; they want to grab all that help so that they don't come to an agreement. Well, everyone has their strategy and I respect it, but I hope and wish, as Mrs Kortajarena has said, that from the presentation of the strategy we will be able to address the issues in another way and we will be able to address them from a broader perspective, because in this I believe that ideological orthodoxies do not come. This is not a matter of raising or lowering taxes. This is an issue on which we are all playing our future, and just like other issues, such as pensions, education or the Basque, needs us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Five point in theme list: "Phum up the other bill as the parliamentary team made, about the direction and direction of the handling of the economic regime of Social Security. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u21	Good morning, everyone. The subject which we place here today on the table is essential to guarantee the welfare of society. It is extremely important for the Basque People to build a just and advanced society for the Collectors to have a public, strong, coherent, balanced, and well provided. And therefore, to have a just and advanced society, we have often put forward propositions on the table, because it is our goal: to estimate the conditions of labor, to strengthen social services, or to return, as it has been a week ago, to the pitiful stage of unemployment which is suffering laborers. Between the parties of this powerful defenceal system there is a central position between the Social Security and the public pensioning system, which, on the other hand, will have to guarantee a worthy pension to all pensioners. These subjects, which are in some words "things to do," are of a direct and indispensable relation to the powers necessary to establish a certain number of public policies, and, in short, independence. And we shall discuss this today, the model of social security, which is so important to society, and, above all, to leave the management of pensions in the hands of the Basque organizations, because we believe that it is the best means of improvement. Today we are once again putting on the table the question of social security, the question of a transfer, of competition, which has been pending for thirty-eight years now. A transfer that all successive governments of Madrid have refused to transfer; a transfer on which representatives of the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party insistently prevent us, using the scarecrow of fear without any modesty, and that paternalistic halo on the self-government that we are so accustomed to. A jurisdiction over which the State apparatuses, with the Constitutional Court at the head, have not hesitated to influence, limit and extend the competence of the State, assuming in this case competences that do not belong to the Constitutional Court, and playing even to replace the legislator, going beyond what the literal tenor even of the Spanish Constitution itself says. Because those who boast of law enforcement, those who today fly the flag of the Statute even if only once a year, are the ones who systematically fail to comply with this Statute. It is widely known that from Euskal Herria Bildu we aspire to a complete and own social security system, and I know that more than one will come out here today with this theme, but what is on the table today, what Euskal Herria Bildu puts on the table today, is something very different. It's about reclaiming what's rightfully ours. The aim is to reaffirm once again the firm foundations and the orientation of a major transfer, that of the economic system of social security, which for many years now had to be in our hands. A transfer we need to start building that own system for the benefit of Basque society. A public system of its own, which must guarantee economic benefits that enable people to live with dignity, especially the elderly. And this is something that the Spanish system does not guarantee today. Therefore, because of this need to take steps in the right direction, we call on this Parliament to reaffirm itself in the decision taken in 2016. At that time, the two main groups in this House made a joint reading and we reached an agreement of silence, which we believe must be the compass, the political framework that marks the way forward. And that's our proposal today. To accuse this parliamentary law that the transfer of economic Social Security regime has not been completed. Accusation of the Laws of the State, and of the Sentences of the Constitution in this respect, is the narrow, greedy, and regenerate reading. Let the Parliament request the Government of Spain immediately to fulfil the predictions made about this subject in the United States of Guernica, and in order to establish certain compacts, whereby EAE will take over the management of the economic constitution of Social Security. At least, at least, you'll get on those terms, you'll say, the various executive qualities of fun. If the parliamental system of social protection is to remain here, to receive within itself a system of pensioners, to secure just economic resources for a worthy life, it is indispensable that the development of the public independent institutions and public institutions of society may be effected and managed. And finally, I want you to ask me if you're gonna stay here during the talks that's going to last, at least at every meeting, to make an opening here in Parliament, where you're going to be able to continue the negotiations. We all know the state of our society. We've all got data on our heads and we don't even want to start that. Our society is becoming more and more old, we all know, but it is not bizia, Gipulia, and Araba's exclusive. The growth of life experience and the descent of birth, and the direct influence of this system of pensioners, is a discussion spread throughout Europe, which is not our exclusive exclusiveness. But to this we must add the state of the trade, which is, indeed, ours, unemployment, salary less, and instability. In our society social inequality is becoming more and more striking by all these circumstances. And this social distinction is also shown among the pensioners, unfortunately. How can it be possible to live among pensioners of eiscals with less pensions than six to 700 euros? That's not the way. Thus they do not at all guarantee worthy conditions of life. Thus it is by no means possible to construct a more cohesion and just society. After all, what this state has brought about is a terrible loss of the dignity of society. A loss for the unemployed, both for the workers and pensioners. And this has not come out of itself, it has not suddenly come into being. Behind this wretched situation there are certain concrete and precise policies, and in the case of pensioners, especially the following policies both PSOE and PP, the reforms of the pension system, one after the other. Due to these reforms, the settlement pensions are now 25% smaller than in Europe. That's about 50 percent. All this is said to be so good under the State system. The Spanish Social Security is at a crossroads: payments for benefits do not stop growing, despite the reforms carried out in recent years, which, in fact, the only end of all these reforms has been to reduce spending at all times; and the income for contributions has not just taken off, even reducing the level of unemployment, because wages are increasingly lower, the temporaryity of jobs is greater, and social contributions subsidies are present there, all this direct effect of the last labour reforms undertaken and carried out by the governments of Madrid. In fact, benefit expenditure increased almost three times faster than contribution income in 2015 and over the past decade the monthly pension payroll has increased by 60.7%, while contribution income has remained virtually stagnant. And to this system, to this great system, is to which we are bound, bound with feet and hands. The state fully controls the established pension system within a social security system that is naturally drowned. That's the reality we have. The system of Spain not only supports the dignity of all pensioners, but it has not, at present, confirmed the constancy of its own nature. This is not because we say, it's not because EH Collect says, A number of statesmen have long since remarked the instability of the system. And here we have the Pacta of Toledo, who knows not how he is, and recently OCDE himself said that in Spain the worthy pensions are in great danger. In Biscay, in Gipuzia, and in the state of Araban, some repeat that it is a defensive system, and I am sure that we shall hear it from this tribe, but the deficitary is the whole Spanish system, and that is really the question. This is what we have in the Spanish system. But today we shall have to hear again that it is our fleet, that is the security of our pensioners. We clearly see that there is a way, that there are possibilities, that there is another way. And that's why today we've brought the first basic step into the discussion. Our proposal today is well known to all, a proposal that contains the agreement reached at this very plenary session in March 2016, with the support of Euskal Herria Bildu and the PNV, and, therefore, today we sincerely hope that it will receive at least the same support. Because today we still do not have the competences on Social Security in Basque institutions. Because today the narrow, scarring and re-centralizing readings that Spanish legislation and the Constitutional Court have made on the subject are still there, present and unchanging. Because today it is still necessary for the social security system to develop legislatively, to be implemented and managed by and from the Basque institutions, in order to maintain a system of decent public social protection. Because in these times, in which we have come to hear that we already live quite well with what we have and that, therefore, why should we get into pending transfers, today more than ever is necessary this reaffirmation, because it is time. Because you can't keep waiting. Because such a fundamental issue for the well-being of Basque citizens cannot be at the mercy of the support needs of the governments of Madrid, of the exchange of favors; in short, of the pure and hard marketing. It is our right and it is our duty here today to demand without delay all the competences on social security that have been agreed on for too long. Because Basque citizenship deserves it, because, as seen, there is room to do better, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u23	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, the PNL that presents us on this occasion EH Bildu basically what it asks is the reaffirmation of an agreement that has already been reached in the previous parliamentary term, in March 2016, by the Basque Nationalist Party and the proposed group EH Bildu, which continue to maintain a sufficient number of parliamentarians to reaffirm, so that this Parliament will reaffirm something that had already been approved just a year and a half ago. Before we got to the bottom of the matter, it did seem to us that, if we are going to debate the same thing, about something that this Parliament has already said, and that the correlation of forces should not change, unless there are other elements that appear to have entered, then the debate should move forward and we should not just remain in reaffirmation, in which Parliament reaffirmed something that it had already said. And that's why we were making an amendment that wasn't just about transfers. And because, as always, it seems to us that, along with the discussion of transfers yes or no transfers, transfers now or later, there has to be a discussion of how we make those transfers, what we do them for, and on what models we want to base the issues we are talking about transferring. And so, we were making an amendment that wasn't just about transfers. Of course, we agree that it is time, long ago it was time for nothing more and nothing less than to comply with the Statute of Autonomy, which was signed many years ago, but we think that on such an important issue as the one we are talking about we must also tell people what model we want. If it's going to transfer, we have to tell people what model we want. And we believe that here there are serious differences between the different groups, and I think we have serious differences with one of the groups that signed this initiative with you in March 2016. And, therefore, it seems dangerous for us to keep talking only about transfers. The initiative comes again to talk basically about where policies are made, and we do not underestimate where policies are made, but the important thing seems to us that this has to be accompanied by how those policies are made, what policies we want to do, which is where the ideological differences that we can have between the groups lie. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party put forward an amendment – and they also made it known to us in order to try to reach an agreement – of minima, which also speaks..., and I think it is no different from that of the proposing group, in this sense, in that we only speak once more of the transfer, and we do not go into how we want the social security model and the pension model to be in this case, which is indeed – I share – absolutely important. And, therefore, it seems to us that, even seeing the possibility of minimum agreements on many issues, in this case it was not positive, because it is something that society is already clear, that we want the transfer of social security management most of this House, beyond how we will then each interpret how we have to do this, but what people need is that we put on the table what model of pensions we want or what model of pension system we want. And we, therefore, raise what kind of system we want. And we are very clear that we want a delivery system. Because this is a deep ideological debate, which is not given alone in Euskadi, which is not given alone in Spain; an ideological debate between two types of model fundamentally. One based on systems of distribution, public, like the one we currently have, improveable, and which is currently being attacked, for many years, or models based on private pension financing, to a greater or lesser extent. And we believe that there is one of the differences that we have, of course, with the People's Party, but also with the Basque Nationalist Party, because we believe that behind their model – and so we have read in their documents – they defend a model where private pensions have a greater weight, and in our opinion that means slimming down a public pension system. For us private supplements are there, we are not going to say that they are prohibited, but we believe in a system that is capable of ensuring the adequacy of pensions from the public, and bringing the replacement ratios closer to wages from the public; that approaching the replacement ratios does not have to depend on complementary private protection systems, among other things because these systems are shown to have access only to medium and medium high incomes among workers, and therefore the lowest incomes are unprotected. We believe that the current system is viable, for us it has a fundamental value. It is a system of workers and for workers. It is not a system of Spain; it is a system of workers. It is a system of sharing solidarity between generations and between territories. And it is a system that, if carried out on the basis of those principles, is absolutely feasible. What is happening in recent years is that we are trying to dismantle precisely this system, to get people to opt for other systems, and to get political decisions to say, as always, as well as in the debate we had last week, that there is no money to maintain the system and that, therefore, we have to go to other systems. That is not true, and we therefore propose in our amendment what kind of policies should be done with regard to the pension system. So far the latest reforms that have been made only affect the system's expenses, of course, by carrying the cuts on the workers' back, and no one talks about income. And we believe that you can talk about income, because there is room for manoeuvre, among other things because the pension fund pays for things that should not be paid. For example, reductions in quotas for the creation and financing of employment contracts, which should come directly out of the public coffers. Or, for example, the payment of the management of the system itself, which should also come out of the public coffers. They are the only officials who do not charge from the general budgets of the State or from other public budgets, but they charge from the fund itself, which should be from the workers. We therefore think that this debate cannot be reduced, once again, to where, but that we need to talk about how. And we're willing to talk about where depending on how. Because it is not for us to say that the simple fact of having a new system, segregated from the current one, is going to be better, and it is going to be better for the workers, which is what interests us. It's not worth us. Just as it is not worth telling us that the current system is in itself better than any other system we could create. It's not worth us. It's worth depending on what kind of system we have. What is clear to us is that the larger the systems of distribution and solidarity, the more efficient they have been. That has been demonstrated throughout Europe. And, therefore, we do find it dangerous to propose new models if we do not know exactly what they will be like. And today no one here has asked us how he wants his model to be. We're only being told about transfer. Therefore, we have not been able to reach agreements with any group, and we maintain our amendment, where we talk about what kind of pension model we want. We want a model of pensions that guarantees that they are sufficient from the public, and therefore that there is no need to resort to private pensions in any case. And we denounce the policies that have actually been made in order to cut and try to sink this model, which is not yet sunk. And we are particularly hypocritical about the amendment by the People's Party, where it does speak of transfer, but it also speaks of a model based on the social concert, even on the Toledo Pact, when you have taken every opportunity to agree on this subject and passed the Toledo Pact through the arch of triumph. And you do not believe in that social agreement, nor do you believe in this pension system. They don't believe in him. They have gone to forced marches, and when they have had absolute majority they have cut it for the workers. They have unilaterally reformed the law to include the scissors in the pension fund and the reserve fund. They unilaterally reformed the law, and we therefore now find it absolutely hypocritical that they should come to this Parliament and make an amendment calling for the Toledo Pact and the social pact. We need to change the model of pensions we have, yes, because they have attacked it in recent years with specific ideological objectives. We agree on that. But the simple fact of the transfers won't allow us to do that. And walking towards new models, as well as dangerous, has to make clear which models we want to walk each of us. And we believe that we disagree with the model of the Basque Nationalist Party. We believe that they put weight on supplementary private pensions, and that, in our view, would reduce a public system that guarantees all workers, and especially those who have earned less during their working life, decent pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Maybe I'll start at the end, by the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos, who comes here to say that here are some models, several models... Look, you invent an ideological debate where there is no, between a public system and a private one that nobody proposes, or has proposed, as far as I know. I could even tell you that in recent years both in Spain and here the tax benefits for the particular contributions to the funds have been reduced, therefore in the opposite direction to the debate that you have supposedly brought us here. I'm going to keep one thing: you say the current system is good, and it's viable. Of course, and me! Look, we agree: it's good and viable. Now, there must be enough contributory workers to maintain the system. And that's why you have to create jobs, which you forget. And then, it's just that I don't know why you get confused and say, "Social Security workers charge from the fund of..." What are you saying? They're covered by the INSS. The INSS! The fund, which, I will remind you, was created by the People's Party when it ruled... It was created by the People's Party when it ruled, because when it arrived in 1996 it was broken. You, who say the People's Party doesn't believe in this system... Look, the People's Party governments have been saving the system twice, every time they've come to the government. Twice! Twice! In 1996, as he arrived... to borrow from the international bank to be able to pay! And that's why the fund was created, so that when there's an economic crisis and there's less income you can get rid of those savings. What do you mean, the officials charge...! Officials are charged from INSS, and pensioners are charged from INSS. The bottom is an INSS hatch, which someone wanted to play in the bag with, and it wasn't the PP or a People's Party government. So, listen, we don't believe in the system... Hey, we've been saving the system twice for now. Moreover, it seems that the Spaniards are voting for us to save the system. From when he rules the left, he loads the system that you think is so good and is viable. And I have to tell Bildu that he brings us a proposition that suits us very well. We brought this debate about a year and a half ago, and I am surprised and surprised that they say, "How cynical is the People's Party, which says that the Statute and the Constitution are being complied with!". It's just, listen, we ask that the laws always be enforced. Always! Always! What happens is that there are some who distort the laws to say that they are not complied with, especially the Statute of Autonomy. And we've been hearing it since the eighties, from the beginning, from the minute one, because nationalism needs the bat, continue with the bat, and "it's not enough", and "we have to change it", and "we have to go more"... Man, I'm a little surprised by the position of the Socialist Party. I will read to you what you said exactly a year and a half ago (your representative, who signed with us the same amendment that I bring today, literally, with stitches and commas). You said: "As much as the PNV is committed, there is no violation of the Statute by the central administration in this matter." That's what the Socialist Party said, eh! I ratified it, but they said it. He said: "But his involvement in this interpretation, which has already delayed the transfer of active employment policies for many years" (and it is also true, because in the end, when a government does not want to receive the transfers, it does not receive them, and makes the interpretation it wants, right?), "it has been good for them to complain that the Statute is not being complied with". This was said by the Socialist Party a year and a half ago. The difference is that he is with you today in the government. I don't know what he's gonna tell us today. I don't know what he's gonna tell us today, but I can tell you a few things. Man, it's funny that Mrs. Pinedo says, "And they'll tell us about the deficit." It is necessary to have courage for you to copy the speech to these gentlemen, that if we managed the pensions better from the Basque Country, it would be phenomenal! So I ask you: Listen, and with an annual deficit of more than 3 billion (deficit), but what better management will you do if you lack 3 billion? If I had a surplus and "No, we have a savings of 1,000; let's see how we manage it better and do it...". But what management is he going to do, less than 3,000 a year? What better management? Man, I've come up with a number of things: lowering pensions by 35% to make it work. That was done in Greece, the reference that you brought to us in the last legislature to talk about this issue. Yes, yes, yes, I remember too! A year and a half ago, yes, yes. Mr Varufakis came here to teach us lessons, and at three months he was cutting pensions in Greece by 30%. Sure. That's the other model. That's not our model, but that model we've already seen. We've seen how it works. So, how can I not talk about deficit? Of course I have to talk to him about deficit! I have to talk to you about the deficit, and if you look at the Basque Government's forecasts, the Eustat data – that this debate we had a year and a half ago – at five years, at ten, at fifteen, at twenty-five, at thirty... They're all worse. They're all worse. And I have to remind you, as I reminded the Basque Nationalist Party a year and a half ago, that when the fund is created, and the system works very well in the rest of Spain, the Basques did not contribute. We were already deficient, hey, no stopping! Unstoppable. We've been in deficit for over ten years. But you know the pensioners know, don't you? Of course, of course, it's just that pensioners know. And when you come here to talk about a new model, all the models seem fantastic to me. What nobody tells us is, in all these new models, how you pay and who pays. Sure, how do you pay? The 3 billion were a year ago, today it will be 3,300 (we'll see how it ends), next year 3,600, the next 4,000... Because this is how it goes. We've been like this for ten years. That's how we've been for ten years. Now, that's right, we have some fantastic data, because, since there are more and more retired and less active people, there is less unemployment, and the government comes out fantastic and proposes that at the end of this term we are less than 10% unemployed. But he's coming out alone! As we retire the Basques... And, of those jobs that retire, half of the people who are in unemployment come in... because we're slowly lowering it. In the end, who's bringing in? For nothing, we remain, as I said thirty-five years ago, 2,100,000 or 2,200,000; we remain the same: 2,100,000, 2,200,000... Thirty-five years older. And this is the Basque system that you are proposing to us. And I have one thing to raise here, because, of course, in this debate the important thing is, indeed, the approach of the Basque Government. Because here, we are not going to be fooled, it is these lords who rule with those lords, and I am about to see the approach that they make us or that they pose us. Because if I read the file, the 35, which you have raised in the new transfers that must be requested, man, it is graceful, because when Mrs Pinedo told us about the Constitutional Court... Look, the Constitutional Court ruled this in 89, at the request of the Basque Government, the PNV. You should be aware that no one expected the PP to rule in Spain in centuries; we came to the government several years later. But look at what time I'm talking to you, who raised that resource, which was estimated in part, was estimated in part... Of course, and in a democracy, in a rule of law, when two parties have different interpretations, they go to the courts, for the courts to say what is right, and in this case the Constitutional Court said what is right. And ever since then, the PNV has been calling it "damaged goods" to that transfer. And when you ask for the transfer, what are you asking for? The broken goods? No, no, That is, the one that comes in the Statute and the Constitution, and as the court has interpreted, that you do not want. That's broken merchandise. So, you're asking us for something else! Then stop lying, nationalist lords of one sign and another, and acknowledge that we are not talking about a transfer of the Statute or the Constitution, but about a claim, that you want a model of your own management because you are going to manage fantastically more than 3 billion deficits. But they don't tell us how they plan to pay for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u27	Well, egun on guztioi. And again this House has to debate the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, this time by the hand of a proposal from EH Bildu. But a year and a half ago we discussed this at the request of the People's Party. Curious, isn't it? The extremes bring the theme. So here we are again. I don't think you're surprised, Mr. Antón Damborenea, with what I'm going to say, am I? Because among that proposal of the People's Party, which wanted and wants to present (which is curious) as a champion of the common public system, after the cut that they put into pensions after the unilateral approval – I will remind you – of Law 23/2013, which you approved in solitary and regardless of what the Toledo Pact said, and which was a genuine ideological counter-reform of the pension system, and after having squandered... Because already today..., a year ago I could still say that of whether or not the pension fund was going to end: it runs out at the end of this year. You commented that someone wanted to play in a bag, that they did not; others have not even played in a bag: they have taken, they have put their hand, they have gone spending, spending, spending, and not putting. That's the same problem with the state pension system. And then we have EH Bildu's proposal, which also says it defends a public pension system, but not the common one. Here one own, one particular, one ours, with txalaparta included. There have been no packages in this House to throw data from this rostrum and make demagogic partisanship to verbally manipulate the pension system, the security mattress that advanced societies have created to ensure citizens sufficient resources at the end of their working lives. But we are going to try to give a positive meaning to this debate, and for the Socialists – we are going to reiterate this – these are two issues that seem to us to be fundamental and principled. First, to stress that the Socialist Party's bet is with a public pension system, universal, solidarity, which guarantees the dignity of people at the end of their working life. And in this we do not have great differences with Podemos, but here it is true that we did not come to talk about what system, but about the transfer of management of that system that we defend and defend in the area that concerns us. And we are aware that the sustainability of this system is subject to pressures of different signs: the effects of the economic crisis, the higher life expectancy of retired people, the demographic problem, expenditure and income..., a challenge for which solutions and adaptations must be sought, not to let time pass, as others are doing. With a clear objective, to maintain the system, not to burden the system; and through an agreement with social actors and political parties, not unilaterally. And the second thing we want to stress: the development of our self-government is the reason why we once again urge the central government, not to delay any longer the completion of the process of outstanding transfers, and on the other hand the Basque Government, so that the claim and the negotiation of the transfer of the management of the economic system of social security is a priority on the agenda, and that this claim and negotiation is carried out in the only terms that are possible, which are the terms contained in the fifth additional provision of the Statute of Gernika, which states that the transfer will be carried out through the appropriate agreements (in plural and tiny terms), and guaranteeing the unitary character of this economic regime and the principle of solidarity and non-discrimination of the system with the rest of the population of the State. It is true that there have also been no lack of voices in nationalism which, in the face of these debates, insist on the essence of social security itself and the like, but they are their usual demands, an interpretation of what is not written anywhere. And this partial version has been one of the difficulties to materialize this transfer in the past. But what has happened since last November is that there is a government commitment between the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party, and it is signed. And it literally says: "In this respect, and in accordance with Article 18.2 and the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Gernika, we will propose to the State the transfer of the management of the economic system of social security and the negotiation, within the Joint Committee on Transfers, of the corresponding conventions governing the aforementioned transfer, from respect for the principle of solidarity and the unitary character of the system". Point. That is what is agreed and that is what will take place, which is what the Statute of Gernika says and in what the Government can and will count on the collaboration of the socialists. We include this forecast rated in that agreement, but not only that. We also ask the Lehendakari to create a specific folder that the Socialists would take care of, in order to prepare this transfer and that of prisons, which we will also be talking about in a while, which are the two priorities that we have set ourselves. Priorities that were also ratified by the Counsellor of Labour and Justice in the presentation of the department's strategic lines, in her appearance at the beginning of this year. Because we have the clarity for what: we want to manage Social Security, but we want to manage it to be responsible for a public pension system, without breaking the unitary system – which is what the law says and what we share – and to strengthen resources against labour fraud. And because we are clear how we want to use these skills, to improve service delivery and significantly strengthen inspection, which is one of the ways to put an end to job insecurity. Here's what's there. No place for the shadows, to prevent some from trying to sow doubts. Because socialists, whether they like it or not, we are the guarantee that we will not allow any of the attempts to eliminate the public, solidarity and unitary character of the pension system, because we also believe ourselves to be self-governing and the sustainability of our system. Because we are the ones who built it, this public system and solidarity; because we were the ones who ensured that those who had not been able to contribute enough also had minimum incomes. And we did it at a time of maximum political and economic tension, in the midst of an industrial crisis, in full conversion and in full modernization of the country. We are responsible, and we are not going to obviate the current difficulties: that there will be more and more retirees, that they will receive their pension deservedly and for longer. And that's good news, that's not a risk. The risk to current pensions is that now those who contribute, those who join the labour market, young people, access precarious jobs, earn little and contribute little. And this, along with other factors that have to do with this disastrous management that the People's Party is doing in this matter, in which it is connecting in an obscene and vicious way to Social Security with employment policies, and directly transferring money from reductions and bonuses of Social Security, directly to employers, instead of protecting the system, instead of adopting reforms, by electoral calculations of who is sociologically where it has its vote rate, and then delay and delay... But they're running out of pensions. You have been holding hands and delaying reforms, but it is clear that this is over for you. And we know that there are difficulties, as I have already mentioned, and we will have to look for solutions and we will have to put ourselves on it, with a clear objective, for us very clearly: to maintain a public pension system. And that is what you should, Mr Antón Damborenea, be turning to those who at the moment have the current responsibility for the system, and who are delaying, as I have told you very well, by spurious interests, by electoral calculations. We are not going to stand up for unworkable and harmful approaches to the whole of Basque society, or to the pensioners of today and tomorrow. The Socialists defend what is laid down in the Statute of Gernika, not only out of fidelity to what was agreed in 1979, but also because we believe that this formula, which makes compatible the unity and solidarity of the system with its management in the Autonomous Community, is the most suitable for all the Basque pensioners of today and tomorrow. And we will defend and defend that this system must be public, solidarity and unitary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours. Mrs GOROSPE ELETERNO: Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, they're going to allow me briefly to start with something that has been striking to me from this initiative. And it is that the first initiative of EH Bildu that we discussed in this plenary is an initiative for the Basque Government to negotiate with the Government of Spain. If I were a headline journalist... I would give you that title, yes: "EH Bildu urges Urkullu to negotiate with Rajoy". Because in full offensive against the Basque Nationalist Party, against the Basque Government, against the lehendakari Urkullu, demanding in various areas that all relations with the governments of the People's Party or the People's Party be broken, it turns out that the first initiative that EH Bildu brings to this Parliament is precisely in line. I agree, Mrs. Pindo, that this subject which we are now discussing is essential to the welfare of society, and that the conditions of life of the people may be worthy of value. Thus it is to be mentioned that the pensioners of the Eukadin, above twenty thousand, receive an extra portion of their pensions which is paid from the odds of fun. And therefore I think society has this right, that when it manages the rights of health, education, and other branches of society, its conditions of life are improved, and that is the confidence of all the people, when we get this right. We agree, and we always accuse that when this dispute is brought on the table, there is no law left, que tumos ante un incumpimiendo deley, and we accuse it over and over again. It is a law of organic nature, which was now admitted to, that it should always be fulfilled, that we should be given this jurisdiction, ours, and that it is in our power to govern it according to this law of organic nature. And we proclaim that the article 18.2 of the Common-wealth of Guernica, and that what is said in its fifth transitory regulation should be fulfilled and given to us. You once mentioned "vamos a volver a rectam lo que defendiamos entonces." And even then, when we had a negotiation with you, we put it as a condition that we should obey what the law says, and that we should come to the limit of the interpretation of the law which we interpreted. And today we say the same: status quo is preserved, what was said then, we must obey what the law says, and we shall go that way. What we know today is that the proclamation of the established law should be fulfilled. But since we have succeeded in this middle term, there is a change in this legislature, and you have mentioned it yourself, because we have spoken of it. That media was accepted on March 3th, 2016. From this time on, on the demand of the work of Autogronze, a report of the remaining rights and updates of Guernica has arrived a month ago. The parliamentors asked for it, they sent it to us, and there, on the 35th tab, it's defined how it is interpreted, and it's included what we've been saying and interpreting. What we agreed to go in there. "En absoluto lo que nostros acoram esta reñdo con la interpretationo que se hace en el informe de actución." Bat nator zurekin, Eta, Mr Damborenea, I have to tell you that you once and a thousand times insist again on the fallacy that here the system would be less viable. It is deficient, it is deficient in recent years, in years of crisis, it is, but Euskadi has been a net contributor – and that was also mentioned in the previous debate – since the system was created in 1952, I think. That is, more than 50 years, more than 50 years being a net contributor. I understand that something from that fund, which should exist with a happier balance, will be for us, and I understand that at some point we will have to sit down, when those transfers are made, to talk about it. But precisely this fund is set up so that this deficit can then be compensated. You said that there are some who distort the law, so, in that way, well, make use of political victimism and say that Madrid does not want to comply with the legal framework that we have agreed, and in that way to have a justification that gives rise to the overflow, probably, of the approved legal framework. Let me ask you a question, Mr Damborenea: if that is so, how is it possible that in the years when we did not govern, which governed the Socialist Party with its support, the transfer was not made? If the problem is that we didn't want it, then why didn't it happen? Indeed, the nationalists have not been fulfilled in the Government, and when non-nationalist parties have been in the Basque Government, they have not been fulfilled either, because it is Madrid that denies us that possibility. There's a violation of the law, no matter who's here. The Constitutional Court, we have told you every time we have had this debate, makes an absolutely restricted reading, seeking to curtail, as established in an organic law, by ordinary laws. Hernandez jauna, lehenengo aldiz eztabaidatzen dut zugaz. Well, just to say that you were actually referring to..., we tabled a whole amendment with the claim that we could reach an agreement as broad as possible; an amendment of minimums where we could claim in this House, with a broad-spectrum majority, so that we could feel stronger, and the Basque Government, in those negotiations that it will have to develop with the Government of Spain, could go stronger. And it is true that the issue has been discussed repeatedly in this House; what is also true is that you have never voted in favour of anything. Because the debates have been done by the rest of the parliamentary groups, but not by you. What I do not know is whether in some way, timidly, what they do is to move away from that manifestation or from an express pronouncement calling for the transfer of this competition, having heard his speech. You said, Mr Hernández, that the important thing is not where policies are actually made, but how policies are made. And for us, for the Basque Nationalist Party, as you will understand, it is also very important where these policies are carried out, in addition to how. That, of course, our model and the proposals we make have been written down, approved. Those of the party are clear, and, of course, the interpretation that the Basque Government also makes of competition at institutional level is clear to you on the record that they have sent us. Obviously, when we are talking about the model, if the model that is set is a model of intergenerational solidarity, we are not going to propose a change of model to a model of capitalization, for example. We're not talking about that at all. But, of course, competition we want to have. You spoke of private complements and that you disagreed with what the Nationalist Party intended in this regard, and what we are clear is that private complements, which are necessary, which are good and which we support, are complementary, and so we defend them in our model. And I would like to read to you, if I may, an intervention made by the Deputy Councillor of Economics, Finance and Budgets recently, a week ago, in a series of days organized by the Federation of Voluntary Social Security Entities, and there Alberto Alberdi said: "We must not forget that the supplementary forecast is complementary, and it cannot be dissociated from the public economic regime, which is fundamental. We know the problems of demographic transition, but we must strive to maintain what is a backbone of the welfare state. Moreover, I believe that a great step that we can take from the institutional sphere to get out of the blockade in which we find ourselves lies in the assumption of the management of the economic regime of Social Security, among other reasons because the synergies of that management with that of the rest of the social protection are enormous". I encourage you to support our entire amendment, because it is in this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In the turn of answers, Mrs. Pindo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u30	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again. Gorospe andrea, when you have no defense, a good attack. And that's what you did today. But in EH Bildu's proposal, first point, "The Basque Parliament denounces the non-materialization of the transfer of the management of the economic regime..." and so on; second point, "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to give immediate effect to the forecasts contained in the Statute"; third point, "The Basque Parliament expresses the maintenance in Basquedi of a system of protection...", and "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote the necessary initiatives for the orderly request...". That's what he wrote... No, no, no, I'm sorry! I'm so sorry! You said, "Let the Basque government..." No, no, no! This is what it says, Mrs. Gorospe. Besides, that's not the point. The point is that today you have come here to reverse what your party had signed a year and a half ago. Because today you come to me and you say, "There has been a change, something has happened in year and a half; there has been a report to update the outstanding competencies." Man, Mrs Gorospe, what has happened is that you have a government agreement with the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party in this matter pulls them from neck to neck. This is what happened, Mrs. Gorospe. That is what has happened: that the Socialist Party has told you that, that of saying that the Constitutional Court is scarring, then not. And you said here today, on the stand, that the Constitutional Court has made a restrictive reading in relation to competition, and you have left the situation almost, well, let's say, a little out of the blue. But why don't you write it down? No, it comes to me to say this wonderful thing that you have written, that we talk about social security and economic competition and say: "We positively value the Statute of Gernika because it has meant an instrument of vertebration of the democratic conscience of Euskadi..." "Where do you come from?". - Apples bring me." "Where do you come from? .–Manzanas bring me". When you don't want to come in, you start to say how wonderful the pink world is. And what you're saying is that a priority is reserved. That's thirty-eight years! That the Socialist Party was the first party that systematically refused to address this issue! That we're not going to protohistory! That I'm the age I am, but I also know how to read! And I also talk to people, and I know what happened in the '80s, and you know it, too. Or don't you know? Yes, you know perfectly well, Mrs. Gorospe. The Socialist Party systematically refused to transfer social security. Moreover, you ruled because you admitted that the Socialist Party did not make that transfer from Social Security. And you know it as well as I do, because it's in history books, Mrs. Gorospe. Mrs Castelo, I understand your situation, but you have agreed on what Mr Damborenea has said, a compromise which says exactly what Mr Damborenea has today put black on white, with some spelling error through Mr Damborenea. [[Barres]] Black on white. And I'm not going to a txalaparta system. No, no, no. What I want is for you to come, for us to have here the transfer of social security. And I obviously advocate a Basque system of social security, and I say this here and in Kathmandu, because I am obviously an independentist. It's a drawer! It's a drawer! Of course I advocate that, but what I brought here today is not that. What I have brought here today is that let's really say what has been going on systematically for thirty-eight years: that the governments of Madrid do not want to let go of this transfer, that the governments of Madrid have made legislative changes so that this transfer will be undone, and that the Constitutional Court has made the judgments it has made. Because the single box is neither in the Constitution nor in the Statute of Autonomy, and when there was the single box it was in other times and in other laws of another famous ruler in the Spanish State. So at least we're gonna talk a little bit about property. Partial view of the competition... well, and that you are the guarantee, tells me, that it does not break, that the system... Sure, sure. You are the guarantee that in this Autonomous Community we do not really have the competence of Social Security as God commands, and you are the guarantee that, if it comes, it will come as if something else came, cut, washed and cut, that in that you are specialists, in cutting and (how did that say?) in brushing. In that the Socialist Party is a specialist. But for a little bit more, Mrs. Castelo, for a little bit more. And, Mr. Damborenea, you and I in this, then, the usual. The deficit... you will tell me Mass in Latin, but the deficit is from the Spanish system, and you know it. Each and every autonomous community in the Spanish system has a deficit. Each and every one of them. Yes, Mr. Damborenea. Yes, Mr. Damborenea, that's how it is. And besides, it's that you guys fall into your own trap. They're not telling me the box is unique and it doesn't break? Ergo, what fear are you of us running from here? What deficit problem are we going to have, if, according to you, everything is immobile and we have to be in the Spanish system? You're taking the second step, which I like, eh!, because if you assume that I'm going to have the own Basque social security system, perfect. But we are not going to have that deficit because of a very simple question: because our system is going to be different from yours, because our system is not going to be based on its limitations in relation to labour legislation, because our system is not going to be based on all those issues that you have taken care of getting into Social Security through the back door. That is so, Mr Damborenea, but don't cheat on me, don't scare people with the social security deficit, because what is in crisis is the system that you have been dealing with for years to squander and block. That's the problem. But today we talk about the transfer, and some are going to go three steps back because they have new travel companions. And then they'll tell us that they're defending the transfer of Social Security. If you defend her, defend her with everything you have to defend. A year and a half ago a lot of things were said in this text, which you today, Mrs Gorospe, did not want to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u31	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u32	I'm sorry, I'm done. You did not want to say, because today you are cut off by the Socialist Party on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u34	Bai. Indeed, the debate is focused on something that we, as I said, do not want to avoid, is that it seems absolutely incomplete to us, to talk only about transfers and to end up in the debate on whether there is more deficit in Euskadi right now, not a few years ago, for many years, and before the crisis. And it's true that there may have been a surplus before, but I think we've had a deficit for 12 years. Therefore, it is no longer a short-term problem. But I think the problem is not whether there is more deficit or less deficit in Euskadi than in the system as a whole, because in the end this debate covers the debate as to why the system currently has problems or deficit as a whole, and what measures are being taken to tackle that deficit. Because also behind the measures that have been taken to tackle this deficit there is a concrete ideological proposal, which Mr Damborenea will logically deny once and a thousand times. Because I will recognize to the People's Party that, of course, they are intelligent, and they are not going to tell people certain things that they then do in practice, because they know that people don't want that. And that, then, is called populism, and you're like the humorist who usually says, "I don't say it, I do it." And indeed you are not going to tell people that you are going to take measures that will lead to the weakening of the system and that you are going to lead, who can afford it, to opt for other models and models of private pensions. And we, Mrs Gorospe, do not intend to move away from agreeing to the transfer of management. It is true that our coalition is new, and it has not voted here before. I do not know exactly how many debates you have had, but I am sure that my colleagues on the United Left, if there has been this debate, will have voted on this issue in this Parliament too. So, it's not new. And besides in our proposal, we're going to vote, right? (let us vote on our amendment, I hope), let us vote on this too, because in our amendment it is also asking for the transfer and saying that we are already very late. And we also say one more thing: that it does not have to be the product of negotiation, but that it is a right we have, because it is indeed in a statute backed by the majority of Basque citizens. Therefore, we do not avoid that debate, nor do we intend, by not voting with you or by not having reached an agreement, to escape from it. Not at all. But we believe that our amendment included the discussion of what model we want. And it's necessary to tell people what models we want; it's not enough to be marooning them with transfers yes or transfers no, when in addition everyone then says that we agree to be transferred, and we have differences on other issues. That is why I am somewhat displeased that Mrs Castelo tells me that we did not come here to talk about what model, but about transfers. And logically you – and I understand it and it seems to me well – have talked about what model, and you have indeed found that in some things we agree, as regards a public model, universal, etc. Good. That is why we want it not to remain in the debate and in the speeches that we can have here, but, if something has to come out of this House, to indicate that series of issues, what kind of pension model we want for our people. And, therefore, we do not have a minimum agreement for a thing where it is already clear as to transfers. We have to go ahead. And that's why we didn't deserve the proposal that EH Bildu brought, without getting to the debate on the model that they call "own", without getting to that debate about what kind of model we want. When it comes to that debate... because it is true, Mrs Pinedo has said that that was not what they proposed today in particular, so I have not come to that debate, but if I came to that debate the first thing I would say is that a model, affects only our country, our nation, or affects the whole state, whether it be its own or not, from a class point of view to me has to do with it being workers' and to protect workers. Not so much as it's exclusive to our nation. But that was not really the debate today, even though legitimate intentionality is that, and that is why it should be pointed out. We think that, if something has to come out of this issue, it has to be pointing out what model this House is betting on, and not just about calling for the transfers again and getting into the debate of who is to blame for not being transferred. Of course I don't think my group at the moment has it. What we do believe..., and I would offer the groups that could vote on our amendment by points, because in our amendment there are issues on which some groups agree yes and others do not, there will be issues on which there is no agreement, but there are issues on which we do agree. And, therefore, if any group wants to, I am offering to vote on our amendment by points, and we will see where the agreements and disagreements are on concrete models and not just on transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u36	I will tell Elkarrekin's representative that we will always take steps to save the system, even if the others say "We have to take action" and no one wants to approve them, because they expect others who know about the system to approve them, while they dedicate themselves to making cheap demagogy. We will always take steps to save the system. Mrs Castelo, let's see, in this country the only reduction in pensions that has occurred has been governing the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You may not like it much, much or regular that the rise with the ruling People's Party has been scarce and you would like it to be more, me too, and my mother more. But, finally, the only ones who have dropped pensions have been ruling the Socialist Party. And, Mrs. Castelo, I read myself... Of course it's changed from year and a half to here one thing! That you are now in the government. And the Government has sent us a report last month, and in that report it acknowledges that the judgment of the year 89, because, in short, that, which has always been raised since nationalism, is not possible. Because it comes in the report itself when it talks about jurisprudence. Of course, but then, when it makes an assessment, that report tells us that it must be assumed (because yes, eh!) the legislative development and implementation in this area, and therefore the management of the various benefits of the social security system. And I'm the only question I have to ask you is whether the single box can be broken or not, and that's it. I'd like you to answer that. Mrs Gorospe: the system is deficient in the Basque Country because of the crisis. Not at all, not at all! That the Basque Country is deficit before the crisis, more than eleven years ago, more than eleven years ago! If the Basques at the bottom, when the bottom is created, if we have practically not contributed! We've always taken it out. If we haven't contributed, if we were already deficient! Let's see, so that we understand each other, when I told Mr de Podemos that I agree that the system is viable, it is viable in Spain, in the whole of Spain, and here in the Basque Country today, as it is configured, it is not viable, except that you make up with tax collection those three thousand and peak millions of euros that are missing a year, which means that you have to collect 35% more from all taxes than you are now collecting, and I told you that year and a half ago (but they don't tell us who or where), or that you lower pensions by 35%. Sure! And he says why this transfer wasn't made when Mr. Lopez ruled, with our support. Man, let's see, we were able to materialize the active employment policies, which you refused to receive for fifteen years. And do I have to remind you that you, who ruled Mr. Zapatero in Madrid, who was in a minority, when Mr. Patxi López, Lehendakari of the Basque Government, comes to an agreement for the transfer get in the way, to further delay him and include the contract bonuses? Or do I remind you of this furo and egg, that we had this discussion here, when I told you that it was going to cost us 50 million euros a year? "We prefer the fury rather than the egg." Three hundred million euros has cost us the joke ever since. Now, that's right, they mixed up in Madrid what's not written with Mr. Zapatero. Hey, and Mr. Lopez lasted three years. We have done enough to get the transfer of active policies, which you systematically refused to receive. The last autonomous community in all of Spain! Eight years earlier, the penultimate had received that transfer. Man, let's face it, we did something to ensure that the Statute of Autonomy and Transfers were complied with, with the Socialist Party, at the request of the People's Party. And, Mrs. Pinedo, I don't know if there's a typographical error. Well in the cut and stick..., you'll have to check the cut and stick. If we have done so, then apologize. I just want to say one thing: in this matter God does not command how the transfer should be made. God doesn't rule, I'm so sorry. Nor am I going to sacrifice either the Constitution or the Statute or the Constitutional Court, but, of course, this is not the case. But when you ask me what problem we have with your system, why we refuse... But, hey, I just want my mom to keep inviting me to eat at home, to keep it going. That's why you have to continue to collect the pension, because if I ever accepted your system, my mother would run out of pension. Yes, yes, yes, my mother and all those who are in the same situation as her, and other gentlemen who will be in the same situation as her. So, how am I not going to deny the scrapping of proposals that you raise from a Basque pension system that has been deficient since the first minute! I told you before where they were going to get the money. No one here answers where the money comes from. But neither you nor these gentlemen last year when we were talking about this. Nobody here talks about how things are paid, or who pays them. Well, I'll tell you who pays them: the workers. And fifty years ago the Basque Country had a surplus? Well, it's very possible. But I will tell you that in 1995 the system was broken, in Spain, in the Basque Country and everywhere. There wasn't a single euro to pay the pensions. Don't talk to me about 50 years ago! And when the system is solved and the fund is created we are deficient and we do not contribute. And we don't bring...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u37	Finish it, please, Mr. Damborene...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u38	... And so, look, if we get to have that competition, they tell us we don't have it, so... Man, don't tell us that the Statute of Autonomy is breached, when you acknowledge that you're not asking for that, that you want independence and a system of your own. That's fine with me. But even if that were to come, it would have to be given up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u40	I'm going to agree I think only on one thing with Mr. Antón Damborenea. And it's true that I don't think God has to send anything about how to make the transfer either. I'm sorry, but we don't belong to a group that has a lot of religious ideology in their veins. The first intervention that EH Bildu had to me seemed to me a nice defense of the Statute of Autonomy, of the statutory compliance, of the need to complete the transfers. What happens is, of course, what you're asking for next is not that. You do not want the transfers to be completed exactly, but what you are talking about is a Basque pension system, because, as I say, of those aspirations that you have as independenceists, which is very contradictory to that claim of the Statute that you are making to us. Look, I don't know if we know how to chop and brush, but you guys at EH Bildu have been, and you know a lot about that, for many years. So, actually, I think the transfer has to come, we're strong advocates of it. And you will have to do it as the Statute says, and with a system that for us has to be a public system, of distribution, solidarity interterritorially (I don't know if you know that, interterritorially) and intergenerationally. And therefore, logically, we cannot be with the proposal you make. But it is true that I cannot be with what the People's Party advocates here with the public pension system. Because someone created the fund, yeah. Someone's squandered the bottom, too. And, as I said and read yesterday in a blog of some social security law professor, I said, "Praise be the People's Party: he creates it, he squanders it." Well, that's great. That's what we're in and that's what we're in. Because you tell me how to pay. Look, you pay as much as you pay for public services. Do you know what was done here to pay for public services? A tax reform. For what? To generate more income and not to make cuts, it was the policy they did in the State. And here to generate more income there is a simple measure that you have in hand, and it is to regain collective bargaining, to rebalance power between entrepreneur and worker, to re-enact collective agreements, to re-guarantee decent wages. Because, of course, at this time, what you have done with the labor reform that you put in place was simply brushing the protective framework or umbrellas that the workers had, and now we have two-speed workers: those who can cling to the consolidated right, and those who enter the dawn of what the companies want to do. And between that, and the reductions and bonuses that you put in, and this issue of flat rate, and all up and all down, so logically, if we deduct everything from Social Security income, then, of course, with Social Security income it will cost you to cover your expenses. And if the expenses of Social Security, instead of paying them from the budgets of the State and against the ministries, continue to be paid against Social Security, as well. And this is something that is being said in the Toledo Pact, that Toledo Pact that you cared a little bit about jumping in 2013. Because it's very good, and you in 2016 even needed to say that the only one who had paid the pensions had been Zapatero. That saves you here in the rostrum, but all the pensioners who are on the street know perfectly well: 0.25 does not cover what the Toledo pact that had to cover, which was the IPC, said. And you jumped the IPC to the toaster unilaterally, and those who are lowering pensions, from then on up to now, are you. Because before, it also served them that the CPI was going to be negative, but it's no longer being negative. He's not being negative anymore. And you make the estimate to 2022, and you'll see the cut. And I'm not saying it, you just have to review a little bit the last meetings you've had in the Toledo Pact, where these issues are getting underway, and it's also one of the issues you know you're artificating right now the issue of reaching an agreement in the Toledo Pact. It is exclusively that this reference to the index, which has been unilaterally applied by the People's Party, is removed and the reference to the CPI is re-referenced, in order to ensure the non-purchasing loss of pensions. You may keep saying here and mentioning Zapatero, but on this subject, on the issue of pensions, you will never be able to doubt that it was the Socialist Party that created the system; that it created it in a public form, of distribution, of solidarity, and that we will continue to defend it. And that we are not going to allow that connection that you are making, simply – and you know it perfectly well – because you have electoral calculations and therefore do not take action. We will adopt them, logically, when you, lost the absolute majority, see yourselves in the need to do so. And you should remember that this is the first time, the first time that, with employment growth (the first time, with employment growth), social security income is not increased. Maybe they should make them look at it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u42	Mrs. Pindo, what you said hurt you. Yes, you've got yourself warmed up, but that's what he's putting on here. I just said reality. You put this on yourself: "You're asking me to put the conversation in terms of that decision." So you ask him to negotiate with the Spanish Government with Rajoy's government. And then you ask him to have no connection with the Spanish Government in any other way, and you ask him not to make any negotiations with the other. You have come here in a very great contradiction, yes, in a very great contradiction. You think that if you are present, you can do what you think is possible to do in the field where the order is given. But if it is not yours, and the government is to be disgraced, then you make as many difficulties as you can in the negotiations and on the way forward. That's what happens. And here you can clearly see that this has been the case. And I told you before, and you said, "Send everything informe de actación." It's clairvoyance! A month ago, on behalf of this legislature. And that's where it's determined and it's said, a modo illustration, a modo illustration, what's done and what's done. Compliments of writing and punishment; of the ability to manage and control cotification and finance system of social security; of remembering and division of social payments; of the rights and possessions belonging to social security, management and administration; of managing and managing the means necessary to introduce other financial resources in the Social Security system; of providing and distribution of social obligations. A modo illustration, specified. You will tell me that we have nothing, and this is what has been about a year after we have signed the media, so we must consider it. Mr. Hernandez, well, you said you wanted to talk about the model, and in your... We do not agree (planned the possibility of being able to vote for points), we do not agree on what we sense you are putting forward in what you write. On the first point... I have not lowered your proposal, your amendment to the whole, but they concern a social welfare system, not a public pension system. We don't know if they're talking about anything else... You also refer to an environment of institutional abnormality, which at all. That the negotiations are taking place between parties in an area of institutional abnormality, I think I recall that this is exactly the idea you are giving. Nor do we agree with that reading that you do. In addition, and above all, as far as the model is concerned, you also propose a co-management model, because you are talking about a body that would be created between the institutions (the Government of Spain, the General Treasury of Social Security and the Basque Government), a co-management system, and we do not share that model at all. Because, when we are talking about transfers, what we are talking about is subrogation, we are talking about substitution, and in fact in the form that the Basque Government has sent us in particular with regard to this competence, it says this: "Management of the economic system of social security in the context of the Autonomous Community, within its unitary character and respect for solidarity, through the subrogation of the autonomous institutions in the position occupied by the General Treasury of Social Security". That is the scenario in which we understand that it should be developed, that is the way in which we believe that the transfer should be carried out, not at all as a co-management system, and we do not agree with what it proposes. It also proposes that the members of the Joint Committee on Transfers come to the Basque Parliament to report on the negotiations, and half of the members, I think I recall that six of the members are representatives of the Government of Spain, which in our view has no reason to come to the Basque Parliament to explain how these negotiations are progressing. Again, I ask you all the members of the legislature to vote for our full-correction, because we believe that, in the way described by Mr. Alberto Albederde, it would be all right to get out of this lock, to ask all of you for this right at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the transfer of the prison rights. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Uria, representative of the Podemos, has the word to introduce and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u44	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. The truth is that I had thought to use one or two minutes, because not always you have ten minutes you have to fill the time, because many times the words go on one side and the ideas on the other. I just wanted to say that we are happy, because with this initiative, with this non-law proposal on the transfer of prisons, the Basque Nationalist Party, Euskal Herria Bildu, us and us (Elkarrekin Podemos) and the Basque Socialist Party want, we ask, we ask, we demand, the Basque Government and the central government to start negotiations for the transfer of prison management to the Basque Autonomous Community. (The PP was thinking about it, then we'll hear from MP Nerea Llanos what she thinks.) And I was gonna sit down, because I said, "Well, if you say what you have to say, sit down and don't bother, right?", but since it is a mess this from the transfer of prisons, you will allow me five very brief reflections. The first is that it's not a whim of PNV or PSOE, much less of Elkarrekin Podemos or Bildu, is it? It is an agreement of the majority of Basque citizens thirty-eight years ago, and it has already been proposed for compliance with the Statute. It should not have come this time, it is unjustifiable, it is unthinkable, it is annoying, and therefore, in our view, it is imperative that the transfer of prison management be carried out. The second reflection is that we have to walk with a little care, because, of course, the Statute, and its compliance, is an organic law. And thirty-eight years without fulfilling it, and depending on the business that the Basque Nationalist Party and the PP have, or the PNV, in relation to "give me give", budgets, transfers, quotas... Well, people realize, and then people can think that laws, organic laws, social rights, or civil rights, are a reason for composition and for cambalache. That is a mess for us, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians. It's a mess, because it distorts the country's legal reality. The transfer of prisons is an organic law: compliance. The third reflection is that the transfer of prisons is not the approach of the prisoners of ETA, it is not that the prisoners sick of ETA, legitimate claims, on the other hand, that had to have been made long ago. These matters do not exhaust the transfer of prisons. We are talking about a group of more than 1,400 prisoners and prisoners who are in Basque prisons, and possibly several hundred, close to a thousand Basque prisoners and prisoners who are in prisons outside the Basque Autonomous Community. We are talking about people who are deprived of their liberty because they have committed all kinds of crimes, from petty thefts to thefts to large crimes or murders, have the opportunity to manage their deprivation of liberty in Euskadi. This is not just ETA, this debate. The fourth reflection is that this is really a mess, because it does not arouse any sympathy in people this from putting you a prison next to home, or a social insertion center, is a mess, it is not simply the issue of prison management, but really people were condemned to deprivation of liberty, not to live an unworthy or humanly very difficult situation to handle, and much less to violate the basic issues of the human condition. We believe that from a humanitarian point of view, public institutions and our Government have an important responsibility in caring for these people. The transfer of competence in humanitarian matters is an opportunity to improve the very precarious living conditions of these people at times. Therefore, more than a political transfer, for Elkarrekin Podemos is a transfer with strong social content. And fifth and last. A prison execution, in our view and that of the main social groups with whom we have consulted dealing with prisoners, should be based on two bases: the social reintegration of prisoners, and the deprivation of liberty in a closed system of serving sentences as a last resort. We will have an opportunity to talk about the management model, both in the Committee on Justice and Labour, Commissioner, and in this House. I am not going to insist on this, but it is certainly an opportunity to transfer prison management so that Basque institutions can add value to our effective, humanitarian and civil rights-based management capacity. It is not a subject of empty content goodism; it is a subject of trying to capture the most advanced approaches of the most advanced societies in Europe, from a humanitarian approach, so that Basque society can see that there are possible humanitarian actions based on the civil rights of prisoners. And, finally – it has come out before with the issue of the transfer of social security management – this really is a brown one. I mean, not just the PP wants or doesn't want it, or the PSOE wants or doesn't want it, or it's not politically timely, or I keep it to change your chromes... The PNV hasn't wanted prison management in many years either, because it's a mess, it's a brown one. More than political, he's a social brown. However, the positions that we have agreed and that we have signed, and that I have only words of thanks to my fellow Members of Parliament, are that we have agreed on the most basic issues. And since this point does not have a basic political consensus, where the majority of this House gives political backing to the central government and the Basque government to start negotiations on the transfer already, it is really a mess, but not only for the processes of coexistence and peace in Basque society: it is a mess to be bold and daring and to design rights-based policies that have to do with the improvement of the human condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u45	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u46	Good afternoon, all of you, and thank you, Your Honor, for giving me your word. Well, we'll go up and down in the plenoa again today, and now we've been talking a little bit about the other transfer, and at the moment we're talking about penitence. It's true when I saw this was the first reflection when the proposal was made, just now... and this year many things have occurred, and this discussion has been here several times in different ways, viz. that it is ponciness and is not, we have talked about different schemes, and, as it were, it is quite clear what each man thinks and has an attitude in front of this transfer. It is true, then, that this is not a new thing in this plune, that it is not a new thing in this whole meeting, but that it is not new for this government and the Spanish State. It's been one thing for the past few years that was to be fulfilled and unsatisfied. And it's pretty amazing for us, so to speak, what's going on with this transfer. And I'll explain why. We hear again and again in the Spanish state that the law is everywhere to be respected, that it is a Spanish constitution which is absolutely inamovable. That the organic laws may be observed, and that if you do not observe them, they endeavour to execute them, and that is to plan judicial measures, or any thing. And while we are listening to this, we see that a state, which is an organic law, is incomplete, and nothing happens. It's okay. No one says anything about it; some ask for it, but those who have it say nothing. Then there is a contradiction, and the reading after this contradiction is, I think, reading, that the Spanish State in this case, as in several other cases, does not wish to do another kind of subsidy which it has abandoned, and another way. To date, the various governments of the Basque Autonomous Community have not succeeded, they have not succeeded in any way, they have been incapable, they have been of the model that they have been and have been chaired by those who have been presided over, to make this transfer a reality. We have been told, from the lehendakari, from Councillor Erkoreka, also from the Councillor of Justice, that this is a priority; that it is a priority of the Basque Government, which is a priority of the government agreement. What we do not know is, being a priority, how things are going to be carried out so that this priority is a reality. Y peers que puede haber movimientos. And when I started reading about the 2017s from the March, from the Spanish State where several statements have been made, and from the government, to push things out, to say that conversation was possible, and to say that things are possible. Eta konturatu naiz that, well, there may be some kind of movement. And what I am asking for and what I am proposing with this proposal is that this, if we urge the two governments to speak for this, is not a bluff, is not a hairpin that we are thinking about and are thinking that this is actually a transfer that needs to be carried forward. And why do I say this? Because all of a sudden I am worried about hearing things like those I heard the Lehendakari in a plenary, when, on questions from another Member, he called for support from this Parliament and society to ensure that this transfer was made. And when I hear these things, and know how I know the lehendakari, who does not stitch without thread, then I worry and say, "Well, why does he ask for support? Is this what Councilman Erkoreka has been telling us that is in the process of settling, that you can talk about, isn't it? Does this have to be negotiated through something else? Do you need support for later...?". And I'm worried. And today it will have support; not only will the Basque Government have support, but we will also urge the Government of the State. "Pero en propo nsotros sí que queremos decir una chaos, and let it be clear what we're saying and what we're doing." Our support, there is, and we are prepared by conversation, by agreement, to place things on the table for an agreement. In a certain sense, we give our support to educity, but that does not mean that our protection can be of any use to other things and to different things. We'll be on top of it, and we'll see what's the use of protection here. And we shall see also how it is done, and what happens after it. This is not a white check. This is the transfer that is to carry things forward, and to acquire it, and then to do all that is to be done here, as they ought to be done. That's what we're planning here today with our support. In this context, Euskal Herria Bildu is ratifying his decision to assume this issue responsibly, not only – as he has been doing in all the debates – with proposals on it for the development of a new and different prison policy, but also supporting this amendment so that in the end it can be negotiated, agreed and managed to bring the prison transfer to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And why? Because we understand that this allows us to have important tools in creating a state. Euskal Herria Bilduk – lehen entzun tiue nirei kideei – nahi independence of the state state beat nahi du. Orduan, horretan bide, eskuratzea instituzioak, lantzea age raised, ikusten dugu gauza inportantee from her. Horregatik posettzen dugu hori, jakinda limitzioak izango ditugula, beste legepean egin behar ditugulako gauzak, baina hori jakinda ere, the independenceists and the independenceists do not give up to acquire all the possible tools to do afterwards the best we can that these transfers go forward, because we also believe that the system of criminal execution has to be different, and we also pose the other way in which it has to be done. And there's another reason, and maybe the other day I was listening, "I'm from somewhere," "I'm from non-know-where." Well, I'll get a piece of my Bilbo here, which leads me to say better, because we'll do it better, and we'll try it on account of the proposition we've made. And then, to do it as soon as possible, we want this to be on the schedule, on the schedule, and besides, as central. And what we want is as soon as we can, I say, but to acquire this before this legislature is over. That's why we're protecting us. That's why we're voting for it. And for another reason: There have been several points of debate in our proposal from the November that has been passed, and then there was not much sense which had been discussed and decided, for when we received all the points that had been held without discussion, no longer. The only one left was the first, and what we've seen is that it's time to give that protection, so we've signed the proposal and we'll do it for it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u47	Thank you, signor. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u48	Good morning again. After the debate on the transfer of the economic management of Social Security, it is now time to discuss a GNP on the transfer of prison competition, which was registered by Mrs Zabala on behalf of Podemos in December 2016 and which are now active, after one year of her registration. Well, it'll be life's coincidences, but it was almost nothing, three and a half months ago that we had discussed prison policy, and we had participated and another set of tools were being put in place, right? All the groups then had the opportunity to present our position on 15 June, so my intervention will have to consist essentially in reiterating the position of the Socialists on this matter. I said to them then and I repeat to them now, and I know that we agree on the approach, that we are defending a flexible prison policy, in accordance with the social reality and of the condemned, that meets the fundamental objective, which is provided for in the Spanish Constitution in its article 25, and that it is nothing other than that of the re-education and re-socialization of the prison population. And it is for that purpose, as I told you then, that we want the transfer of prison management in Euskadi to be on the agenda. I repeat what I said to you this morning about Social Security, and that is that there is an unequivocal will on the part of the Socialist Party to implement the full implementation of the Gernika Statute, which is literally reflected in the agreement signed with the Basque Nationalist Party: "The political parties that we subscribe to this agreement commit ourselves to work so that in the agenda of bilateral relations to be entered into with the central government a priority is reserved to the claim and negotiation of transfers that the Basque Government identifies as outstanding, giving a prominent place to two of them: prisons, and management of the economic system of Social Security". These are two areas that we know will require a specific effort, internal and external, because in that I also share what the spokesman of Podemos said, with the need for teaching abroad. And that is why these matters are also differentiated from other matters of management, and the Socialists have asked to be at the forefront of them. In what we are dealing with today, I have to say, as we said at the time, that what we want is a comprehensive prison policy, a real social and rehabilitation policy, and in what we can and it is up to us to do so, so that the management of prisons, of prisoners and prisoners held in the centres of our community, is aimed at guaranteeing their rights to health, education... but also their right to reintegration. And I think it is important to clarify this, as you have done, and to focus the debate, because when we reach agreement on this transfer, prison policy will remain the responsibility of the Spanish Government. In order to avoid the repeated temptations of those who want to mix the two issues politically, it must be made clear that what this transfer deals with is that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country assumes the organization of prisons and social integration centres located in its territory, which are currently under the supervision of the Prison Administration of the General Administration of the State, which takes place in functions of management, organization, regime, operation, planning and inspection of the penitentiary institutions located in the Autonomous Community, as well as the planning and construction of centres; property administration and management; organization of the remunerated work of the prison population, as well as the implementation of alternative measures to imprisonment and reintegration activities. And this is, and not other issues, what covers this competence. I was already telling you in June, and I am going to repeat to you now, that the Socialists want a social rather than a political debate on this matter. We do not want a debate on what a part of the prison population wants, because what we are thinking about is programming resocializing measures for all prisoners, not for prisoners in particular. Moreover – we said it then and we repeat it now – many times the needs that the prison population has had have been devastated because public debates have focused on a part of the prison population. The goal of prison policy, both from the legislation and from the management of the centres, must be shared, and I believe that there is a more or less shared agreement in this parliamentary arc of what it has to be, and that is that, whatever the reason that leads someone to prison, when that person fulfills his sentence and steps on the street again, he must do so recognizing his error and with the firm will not to offend again. And the socialists know that these are the issues, those of social intervention and prisons, and not others, that are going to focus the efforts of the Department of Justice, which are specifically aimed at the reintegration of the imprisoned population. Because, despite the fact that the autonomous administration does not yet have the competence transferred, it does intervene, and we all know that, in the health field, in the educational and social fields. And it should be remembered that, through the agreements that the Socialists signed, two legislatures (the one on inclusion agreements and the one on the management of sentences outside the prison sphere) the Basque Executive is de facto responsible for the care of the imprisoned population and for their reintegration. What will allow us to transfer this competence is an ability to make a comprehensive intervention policy in all the prisons in our Community. That is why we insist, both at the previous point and at this point, on demanding full compliance with the Statute, for us something so serious that we have incorporated it into the government pact with the Nationalist Party and have been defending it in this rostrum forever. We want the planned talks between the governments of Spain and the Basque Country not to be postponed by party parties, and we do, of course, demand compliance with the Statute and the Constitution, without prejudice to any subsequent amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Elkarrekin We can deal with the proposal of dugu eztabaidagai, "espexe-eskumenaren transferentziari buruz". Ekimena ez da breria. As has been said, it is not a new initiative, in a twofold sense: firstly, because it is a registered initiative, as has been mentioned by the president of her parliamentary group, on 28 November 2016, almost a year ago, and secondly, because on many occasions, as we will then detail, it has been debated in this House, and again and again we have reiterated the need – those we were in the House – and the demand for Euskadi to be transferred the competence in prison institutions. However, as a result of the recent report by the Basque Government on the updating of outstanding transfers, it is a new issue. He was then horrendou nabarmendu beharra dago Euzko Abertzaleak tandaren the berbera's drunk position. And our position, as I said, has been the same for decades, in light of our irrevocable and historic claim for full compliance with the Gernika Statute as a basis for the development of our recognized self-government and for moving forward in a new political legal framework for the future. Mr. Uria said he's a brown man. Man, politics isn't easy. The easy thing, as a friend of mine says, is that anyone does it; here it is about making the difficult thing come true. That's what we're for. And, Mr. Uria, you have no doubt that the PNV did, and there are the facts, as I will also mention later. I don't know where you were then and what your position was. And the Statute of Gernika in this matter is very clear, it leaves no doubt. Article 12 states that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (I repeat, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country) is responsible for the implementation of State legislation in the following areas, and the first one mentioned is prison legislation. Article 10 provides that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has exclusive competence (repeat, exclusive competence) in the following matters: paragraph 14, organization, regime and operation of institutions and institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisons and social reintegration, in accordance with general legislation in civil, criminal and penitentiary matters. The state leaves no room for doubt in these articles; The Autonomical Autonomia Errean has only one competition, 10th. according to the article. And despite this clear and diaphanous legal panorama, and the countless requests that have been made in recent decades demanding compliance with this organic law, which is the Statute of Gernika, to this day remains unfulfilled. We can go back to 24 September 1987, more than thirty years ago, when this Parliament first adopted a non-legislative proposal – with the vote of the PNV too, Mr Uria – calling on the government to initiate the procedures allowing the negotiation of this transfer. And the Basque Government, dated 1 February 1988 (led also by the PNV), addressed the Ministry for Public Administrations to express its will and initiate contacts leading to the transfer. This House then unanimously (unanimously) adopted the Zubia report on outstanding transfers in 1993. And in 1995 the priorities set for negotiation, also with the vote of the PNV, Mr Uría, which included the transfer of prisons. Subsequently, this request has been repeated on many occasions, and today we will again do so. And the Basque Government has also reiterated the initial request of 1988 in several agreements, and more recently the Lehendakari himself has also asked – as has been shown here on several occasions – the President of the Spanish Government, Mr Rajoy, for the start of negotiations leading to the transfer of that competence. Also in the Congress of Deputies, the initiatives presented by the Basque nationalists in recent decades have been innumerable. The last item is a motion for a resolution tabled by the PNV in the debate on the state of the nation in 2014, which was motion for a resolution 39, entitled "Transfer of prisons to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country", and which it said was that it urged Congress, the Government, to transfer exclusive competence in the field of prison structures and the competence to implement prison policy, under the provisions of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. Does that ring a bell? That's what we're asking today. It turns out that this motion for a resolution was rejected with the votes of the People's Party, the UPyD and, curiously enough, the United Left, which is now part of the coalition of the proposing group. Let us hope that when you want to deal with the non-legislative proposal presented in Congress on January 11 of this year on this matter..., we trust in your conciliatory and joint powers so that the United Left will stand in favour of this issue. Mr Uria and Mrs Goirizelaia have no doubt about the PNV's commitment in this area. And the Spanish Government continues to deny that transfer. The PP Government is in breach of the law, is in breach of the Constitution and is in breach of the Statute of Autonomy, so clearly, which we believe has no justification. And the most serious thing, as has been said here – I believe that by Mrs Castelo, or Mrs Goirizelaia – the most serious thing is that it has no impact or consequence, neither legal nor political, such non-compliance. As I said before, the PNV's position in this matter has always been the same, and once again we carried it on the electoral programme with which we presented ourselves in the last autonomous elections on 25 September last year. And the agreement of government between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for the present legislature, in the section called "More and better self-government", after the enumeration of the outstanding transfers, now updated in thirty-seven, and contemplating the claim of all of them, establishes as priority the claim and negotiation of transfers relating to the prison services and the management of the economic regime of Social Security, which has been dealt with in the previous point. Therefore, Mrs Goirizelaia, you have no doubt that it is on the agenda of the Basque Government, and that it is a priority objective of this legislature. Therefore, our group will not fail to claim and demand the transfer of prisons to Euskadi, and for this it will be necessary to negotiate with the Spanish Government, whoever it is, we like it more or we like it less. It will be the one that is elected at every moment by the citizenry and the one that the parliamentary groups allow or allow it to be so. And we highly appreciate the incorporation of other political forces, some that did not exist and others of long historical tradition, into this historical demand – worth redundancy – on our part. As Mrs Goirizelaia said, the issue is not new. Perhaps the novelty is that the abertzale left has resolutely joined the historical nationalist claim of the transfer of this competition, for which we welcome, believe it very positive and important, and we welcome the group that we have been calling for the transfer of prisons for a long time, indeed it is true that with little success so far. And this is not a bluff, as Mrs. Goirizelaia said today. There is a clear commitment from the Basque Government. You know that we fulfill what we say, and to do different things (he said it is to do different things). The claim is very clear: Statute, articles 12.1 and 10.14; government agreement, and fact sheet number 31 of the recent update by the Basque Government. Găr, Ganberako gehiengoak babestuko dueen ekimen honoren bidez eskatzen duguna da legea betetzea. Hori, besterik ez. Lege organiko bat betetzea, Gernikako Statue betetzea. The Statute of which, on 25 October, thirty-eight years after its adoption was completed, which, as you are well aware, is an organic law approved by the General Courts, and which obtained broad support from Basque society expressed in a democratic and peaceful manner in a referendum. It also enjoys, it is supposed, the support of the State institutions and, therefore, the logical and reasonable thing to do so. It is a matter of political will. It is sad and regrettable that this Parliament has to urge a government, the Spanish government, which is said to be democratic, to comply with and enforce the law. Mr. Damborenea (who is not now) used to say that the laws are to be complied with; Mr. Rajoy was recently seen on television saying, "We must go to the law, and demand compliance with it." That's exactly what we're asking here today. It is very striking, by the way, that those who are constantly in the media and in institutional areas appealing to the rule of law and demanding compliance with the law, are the ones who fail to comply. The logical and reasonable thing would be that they respected the law, and that it was already enforced. There can be no conscious and deliberate breach of the existing legal order, and then demand that others comply. We demand compliance with the Statute, compliance with the law, outside any political situation. It is nothing more than asking the Spanish Government to comply with the law, to respond to a repeated request for dialogue (and that is more than reasonable: other autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, have transferred this prison policy for some time), and the opening of a negotiation within the framework of the Joint Commission on Transfers, equal to each other, culminating in an agreement. Recently in the Committee on Labour and Justice we were told by the President of the High Court of Justice, Mr Ibarra, that we have infrastructures to carry out this competence, that there are no major technical difficulties; only one more prison supervisory court would be needed. Therefore, the law says, the Statute, which is the supreme law of our Autonomous Community, there are no technical difficulties in carrying it out, to other autonomous communities has been transferred... Only political will is lacking. We therefore believe that it is very important to demand once again compliance with the Gernika Statute and to demand the transfer of prison services, and the more we are in this much better position. We share what Mr Uria said that competition is necessary in order to be able to make another more humanitarian prison policy geared towards the re-education and social reintegration of persons deprived of their liberty. What has been attempted is to achieve the greatest possible consensus on the matter, seeking the lowest common denominator, and to bet on what clearly unites us (and must be the message today), leaving aside other aspects, important as well, but which could separate us or move us away from the clear objective proposed with this initiative. To conclude, we thank the will of the proposers and the ARPGs to come to an agreement, and send an invitation to the popular to join the enterprise, because it is the only thing he demands that he fulfils the dialogue, negotiations, and the law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Yes, we are again talking in this House about the transfer of prisons. Because we don't talk about prison politics anymore, do we? Four months ago what we were talking about was the transfer of prison policy, but no longer. It is true that the petition has been inconclusive, and it has been asked since 1987. I also have to tell you, Mr Zorrilla, that the Spaniards have not had the fortune that the People's Party has been ruling since 1987. There have been times when the Socialist Party has been ruling, and I suppose you should also turn your gaze there. And you'll also be with me where it's been a sensitive subject, at least. Part of the arguments I said here four months ago (because four months ago we discussed this issue), some of them I will reiterate here today. So for the proposing group today it was essential, essential to create a paper to discuss the prison policy that was to be carried out here. If for the proposing group it was essential, I do not want to say anything to those who brought the initiative at the time, who was EH Bildu, on the part of her spokesman on that subject and today also here, Mrs Goirizelaia. Mrs Gorospe, who is not here now, said earlier that she was going to give a headline in relation to the transfer of social security. Well, I'll do the same. I could say that in relation to Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu there has been a turn in the positions, but specifically with EH Bildu I would say more: the headline would be a turn of Copernicus. A turn from Copernicus, because they have gone from calling for prison legislation to calling for prison services, which is what they have signed. That's what they've signed, claiming the prison services. Which on the other hand is what can be claimed. And they keep asking for competition, as if having the competition here is already the panacea for everything to work in an absolutely different way. However, they do not state that there are aspects of issues that are being carried out within prisons that are already within the competence of the Autonomous Community, as has been said here. It was said at the time, but I want to reiterate it here today, because in the health, education and social fields Basque institutions are already involved. Which, by the way, Mr. Zorrilla, that was achieved with a socialist government, eh! With a socialist government, because with a government of the Basque Nationalist Party, not. Royal Decree 894/2011 regulates the integration of the health services of the Basque Country prisons in Osakidetza, and it is established that the health service depends on the medical services of the Autonomous Community, with the State being reserved only aspects of high inspection leading to the fulfilment of the functions and competences contained in the norm. In other words, what is to be established in this royal decree is that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will provide health care in these prisons. In addition, on 8 August 2011, the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions signed an institutional partnership agreement with the Department of Justice of the Basque Government through which, as a management order, the punishment services and alternative measures of the Basque Government went on to carry out the processing, monitoring and execution of sentences and alternative measures issued by the criminal courts of the Basque Country, or by other courts of the rest of Spain if the prisoners were in the provinces of Álava, Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia. Therefore, the control of alternative penalties is managed by that service. Basque institutions can therefore participate, they can meet the needs of persons deprived of their liberty. They cannot avoid their responsibility, and it is possible to coordinate these competences of the Basque Autonomous Community, as I say, in health, education, employment and social policies. Then, Lords of Podemos and Lords of Bildu, you could hold the Basque Government accountable for how you exercise those powers that you do have attributed. How health is exercised in Basque prisons, how educational programmes are carried out in Basque prisons, social programmes, how alternative penalties are carried out. Moreover, there is an Ararteko report which expressly refers to this, and which makes a number of recommendations in this regard too, which I assume you will have read. But you don't. You guys focus on that? No, you don't focus on that. They do not focus on what the Basque Government is already doing and whether it does it right or does it wrong, which, according to Ararteko, there are important issues and areas for improvement. No, you don't focus on that. And I have to recognize him – I said it last week, and I say it again –... I have to acknowledge his merit to the Basque Nationalist Party, which attracts them to their positions, to the positions of looking towards Madrid, always towards Madrid, and in the meantime they avoid talking about whether it is done right or what it is done wrong that they do have competence. Because this competition, it's true... Not in all communities, an autonomous community has it, Catalonia. In Catalonia, it was carried out in 1983, and later expanded in 86. And the current Statute of Catalonia, which gives rise to the drafting of 2006 (I don't know what they would say in the Catalan Republic), adopts in its article 168 a broader treatment of the subject. But it is not believed that because they have the competition they are beyond criticism, at all. And, if one pulls from the hemeroteca, despite the fact that the competition is autonomous, the functioning of the Catalan prison systems, of the Catalan prisons, leaves much to be desired, with strikes by officials included. Because what is important, Mr Zorrilla, is more important than having competence, is having competent managers, and you spend your life demanding competences so that you don't have to account for the poor management of the competences you do have. And tomorrow I will refer to one of the questions that I have in the plenary session to be held tomorrow. Because I have told you on many occasions: having competence is not the panacea for good functioning. Because I tell you that they have them (they have them in the educational sphere, in the social sphere, in the health field), and, of course, and in the opinion of the Ararteko, there are areas of improvement in them. It is a transfer that is pending, yes, but it will be the Basque Government and the central Government that will have to agree on when and how. And it won't be because Bildu asks it, or because we can ask it, or because the Socialist Party asks it, or because the Basque Nationalist Party asks it. The way and when it will be when the two governments decide. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u53	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u54	Bakartxo Tejeria, very brief. I, Mrs Llanos, do not know whether or not you support the amendment, I have not understood it very well. Of course, it is the governments that have to take the initiative. But what are we parliaments for? That's a question that's not nonsense! Just like when we finish the session, we're still talking about the subject. What are we parliaments for? To give political backing to our government, to disauthorize our government, to bring the demands of social groups... What is our Parliament for? I don't understand you well. It clearly says that this is a negotiation between the Basque Government and the central government, from you to you, so that transfers are a fact. That's what the proposition says! If we are very humble people, Nerea Llanos! Mr. Zorrilla, I only have to thank you for the passion you have put in the intervention. It is essential that the people who come out to this atrium are created the things they say. How would I like to have a sort of ball or follow-up committee (Mr President, I do not know if we will have to talk about this one day) to see the things that are not being done, which this Parliament is proposing! That they are not being implemented, I say, by a majority, when Parliament by a majority has taken a decision. Let them not be fulfilled, let no one be fulfilled! A follow-up committee, a small committee, one from each group, the president... Of course it's a year ago when we introduced this GNP, but there hasn't been a step forward! Of course, the PNV has taken initiatives, both at the media level, in recent months, and at the level of the government pact! There's no progress. It seemed to us that a certain political endorsement, a certain political consensus, that the House agreed almost 100%, would be a good political endorsement, not only for the media, but for our governments to reflect. Or are the political consensuss that we achieve here worthless? I am, however, very grateful, Mr Zorrilla, Mrs Llanos, Mrs Goirizelaia and Mrs Castelo. It is certainly a good initiative to start with a certain consensus. I'm sorry, start... Jeez! You always tell us that for those of Elkarrekin We can seem like everything starts with us. That's what he likes to say to the PSOE, who starts everything with us. No, man, no! What I want to say is that it is good that there is a great consensus in the House on policies such as the transfer of prison management, which is not only essential, but which would allow us to add value to the development, as has been rightly said, of Articles 10.14 and 12.1 of the Statute of Self-Government. I don't want to spread out. Just to thank Jone Goirizelaia too: the honourable Member has left hairs on the door to sign this amendment. I think Parliamentarian Zorrilla has already commented on this. And I would already like to see this level of consensus on a complex issue such as the one we have, both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of political opportunity. Thank you all, including Mrs Llanos, who we are going to invite to the Committee on Justice and Labour, because we are not only going to evaluate transfers of health, education and other things in a set of appearances that we have already requested, where we will address those aspects that we always have on the agenda: health, education, social policies, and obviously the proposals of the new models of management of the prison organisation. And also the development of the General Prison Law, which has already been explained by parliamentarian Zorrilla. Thank you so much to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Uria. EHGG rep. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u56	Yes, thank you again, Your Honor. You don't have to thank me. We clearly see that in order to achieve this arrangement each of us has to leave something else, otherwise it's innocent. And sometimes it's important to keep what's come to be yours, but then that's what we use and what I've also used in this case. Anderea Castle, the truth is that very well you have explained to us all the competences, what they consist of, the breadth they have, and all the issues that we can have and on which we will have to deal and discuss. Not for me, who had already read that to me before and who already knew it, but the same so that someone I believe who lives in another world and who is in another galaxy, because when he talks about the things that he talks about and raises things to us as he does – and I want to refer to Mrs. Llanos, who I will talk about in particular about these issues afterwards – then he knows well what we are talking about, and what the transfers are and what we are talking about. There's one thing I've been interested in. You said that you wanted to have a social debate, which was the debate that mattered to you. We also care about that debate, which is why we have put forward this debate. We are trying to do this through a paper; as we have not been able to do, we have made a number of appearances in the Committee on Justice and Labour which will allow us to have this social debate. And we hope that in that social debate, but above all in the conclusions of that social debate, we will also have the support and cooperation of the Socialist Party, because it is about doing things better and doing a different and new prison policy of our own. Mr. Zorrilla, then, I am glad that you welcome me. We all welcome you here, you applaud me, I applaud you... perfect. Now let's stop clapping and get to work, which is what we want. All right, we agree, but, look, what I don't want next year is for us to have another proposal here exactly the same, in which someone from the Basque Nationalist Party comes and tells us again everything we've done, and let us conclude that in the end we have nothing in our hands yet. We have already shown very good will all over the world, we are going to start doing things and we are going to move forward. And I believe that this proposal today, this agreement, is a very important basis for doing the following: moving forward. Let's see if we can make it. Mrs. Llanos, look, there's a movie that I don't know if you've seen, that's a gentleman who's stuck in a ball, because he's got a disease and he can't get out. Well, when I hear him talking to you sometimes, it seems to me that she's in that ball, and that she doesn't listen to what people tell her, and that she doesn't read things as they arise. That you come with what you've decided, that I think very well, and you care very little about what's happened and what's going on. No one here has made any Copernican twists or side turns, either forwards or backwards. A concrete proposal was discussed in June on a new model of prison policy, what we want to do, and there was no talk of transferring the prison policy that the PP does, that we do not want it, that we do not want it at all, that we do not like it, that it is not good, that it leaves prisons as they are, that it allows sick people to be in prison, that it poses things that run counter to the fundamental rights of people, and that it does so consciously. We don't want that, and we each propose our model. And that's not making any leaps, what happens is that, obviously, that has to be done with transfers. And you can go do things, you can go do things, too. And look, you tell me one thing. He's been talking to me about what Ararteko said and that Ararteko was talking about that we didn't read the report, because Ararteko was saying that... or that if we read it wrong, or that we read it... Well, I don't care. You've been talking about the report on the... Yeah, he hasn't heard it well either, but look, that report's here. Page 14, and speaking of one of the things you've mentioned, about health, do you know what you're saying? "We therefore insist on the need to complement as soon as possible the transfer of all prison powers." The Ararteko. Say what you said you didn't say! Well, this is what we're talking about. Because you said that the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Basque Government have to agree. What does the proposal say? Let them start negotiations to reach agreement. That's what he says! Which you're saying what we're saying. What part of what the proposal says is not understood? I hope you will explain this to us, because I, if not, the only thing I can deduce is that your position is "no to this issue". And with "no to this question", from her position as a defender of legality, as a defender of the Constitution, as a defender of organic law, and in defense of all these things lead people to declare why they do not defend them, and to pose the measures that arise, therefore, remains quite in question. And that's a Copernican twist. That's a leap in the void of that legality that you say you're defending.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u57	Thank you, signor. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u58	I'm going to say "short" and hope I don't run out of time, because sometimes, when you say "short", it's when you run out of time all the time. Well, we've reached an agreement in four. We had discussed four months ago, I think there were no big differences, and we had more or less a consensus on what prison policy, prison management, which is what the transfer says, has to be reoriented, and I think that we all talked about the principle of resocialisation and a more humanitarian and comprehensive policy, right? So, well, it said, "You won't have to go out on the second shift," but it looks like everybody had to say something. It is true that we can deploy services, Mrs Llanos, on the basis of previous agreements and agreements that we have had, but the competence in this matter is set out in the Statute of Gernika, which is an organic law and which must be complied with. It will not be the panacea, but it is what the Statute of Gernika establishes, and what we do, what we are doing with this and with other transfers, is to request that the process of transfers be completed and that the Statute of Autonomy be completed. I do not think that there has been a combination of wills between four political forces here means that none of them renounces any position, and also some of the spokesmen who have lowered it have said so. That is, we understand it as an intermediate pact towards the path we want to follow. Well, everyone has their goals or the defense of their political interests, and we come to agreements at the very least that we can reach agreements. If the agreement can be at that time that there is a political endorsement of the Government to initiate these claims, and for that priority that from the Socialist and Nationalist groups we have given to this transfer, then welcome be it. But it is also true that I prefer a better social rather than a political debate on this issue, on the management of this issue. Because what we are interested in is the implementation of services aimed at the resocialisation of the prison population, and not at other issues that could be harmed perfectly in the political debate. Anyway – and now I am finished – Mr Uria, if you would like to know what the Government is doing with regard to the legislative proposals that are being approved by this Parliament, I recommend reading the follow-up report on the implementation of the legislative proposals that have just been submitted to us, which I know is very extensive, and which also gives us all the justifications that we have and that we have. But there's control. We need no more control than the reading of that report, which is regularly sent to this Parliament. There is one issue that must not be forgotten either, and that is that we should leave the question of why we have come to this point without the transfer of prison policy. And we better stop setting Catalonia as an example, because the circumstances of one community and another on this issue have not been at all the same. That is why I was saying that we have a better debate from a social point of view than from a political point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uria, it's strange that Mrs. Castelo has been forgotten to make that point. You asked for a follow-up committee to see the degree of compliance with the GNPs approved in this House, and I told you from there that it is not necessary. That there is no need for a follow-up committee, because in the last parliamentary term, on the initiative of the parliamentarian of the Carmelo Barrio People's Party, it was unanimously approved that the Government will report every six months on the level of compliance with the GNPs adopted here, and has recently been referred to Parliament, as it will have seen on the Bureau's agenda, the report for the first session. Mrs. Goirizelaia, I was saying we're gonna stop clapping and get to work. Don't be mistaken. Gu beti egunero aberria eraikiz, pausoz pauso. Some and some of us have been working on this and many other issues for forty years, and without having the transfer, the Basque Government has been working for many years to improve the conditions of prisoners from every point of view (Ms. Llanos, also what you said) based on those principles of re-education and re-socialization, trying to be respectful of the fundamental rights of persons deprived of their liberty. As I have said today, we are alone in this Chamber, for the sake of arriving once and for all, and of the transfer of the prisons necessarily necessary. All we are asking is that the law be complied with, that the Statute of Gernika be complied with thirty-eight years after its adoption. Only if the law is complied with, Mrs Llanos, is that sacrosanct law in force which you resort to when you are interested in it. I would transfer – as you have the last round of reply – the question that our parliamentarian Aitor Esteban asked in Congress to Mr Rajoy, but transferred to you: Mrs Llanos, do you think that the Spanish Government must comply with the law? Because tell us, Mrs Llanos, what part of the fucked-up amendment (he hasn't told us what he's going to do yet, but we get into the worst; we're also surprised)... which part of the fucked up amendment do you not like? What part doesn't seem legal to you? Or what part violates the constitutional order so often alleged recently in Catalonia? Because what is proposed for approval is: "Parliament urges the Basque Government and the Government of Spain" (both) "to start the dialogue" (I don't know if it is a taboo word, dialogue) "to proceed with the call as soon as possible of the Joint Commission on Transfers" (where there is a bilateral relationship between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government), "to carry out a negotiation process" (another curious word) "to conclude an agreement" (also highlighted, negotiated and agreed) "to enable the transfer of powers relating to the prison services provided for in the Statute to take effect". No more, no less. What part of that do you think you can't approve, or make it difficult for you to vote against or abstain? What's the deal you're trying to make? So the one who says the law! You mentioned the Statute of Catalonia after the 2006 reform. Article 168 I'm going to read – I have time – "Prison system": "The Generalitat is responsible for the executive competence of the State's prison legislation, which in any case includes: "(a) The capacity to make provisions to adapt prison regulations to the social reality of Catalonia. "(b) The entire management of prison activity in Catalonia, in particular the management, organization, regime, operation, planning and inspection of prison institutions of any kind located in Catalonia. "(c) Planning, construction and reform of prisons in Catalonia. "(d) The administration and management of property and equipment seconded to the Catalan Prison Administration and of all material means allocated to it. "(e) The planning and organization of the paid work of the prison population, as well as the implementation of alternative prison measures and reintegration activities." It is an article of the Statute that was not laminated, let's say – using that expression, which has been used something similar before – by the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2010, that is, it enters into what the constitutional order allows. With this we would sing in our teeth initially, and I believe that those who have signed this proposal. And for that, what do we want? So, this claim is in the law, and therefore we demand and demand respect for and compliance with the law in force. And we demand it, we will demand it, from a majority democratic support, of 66 out of 75 Members: 88% of the House. Furthermore, as we have already pointed out, there are no technical difficulties in its implementation. That is not enough, and they are no longer worth the wild card of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, be brave and demand that your government respect and comply with the law. Be brave, as Mr. Maroto was in the last legislature on the subject of the closure of Garoña, and, although there are no elections in sight, they demand that his Government respect and comply with the law. We demand it again today. Those of us who live in Euskadi must defend our self-government, its management and development. And the Basque public authorities are committed to all people, including those deprived of their liberty, to be guaranteed, as I said before, re-education and social reintegration. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Basque Popular. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u62	Let's see if I order everything... Mr Zorrilla, I am only going to say one question to you, because you have come to reiterate to us the same thing that you said in the first speech. Man, call terrorism "commodin"... I wouldn't call it, eh! Terrorism has, of course, been something that has hurt the Basques and the rest of the Spanish very much, and that has caused much suffering in Euskadi and the rest of Spain. But I was telling him, and I say the same to the Socialist Group, that he has not been running the People's Party continuously! That I understand that many Spanish citizens would like to forget that Mr Zapatero was once ruling in Spain, but also that the Lords of the Socialist Party also forget him... Well, the full transfer would have been given at the time. But he didn't, and now he's complaining. And, look, I'm not gonna answer it. You know that you sometimes answer for your government, but I refer to the reply that Mr Rajoy would give to Mr Esteban in his day. And you said, Mr. Uria, what we were here for. Well, look, the Basque parliamentarians are here to control the Basque Government, basically. To control the Basque government. And, it is true, to bring the initiatives of Basque society. And I can agree with you that the situation of the prison population is clearly important; that improving that situation, working to ensure that this constitutional right of reintegration and resocialization is fulfilled, is important. But I'll also tell you: it's not a priority of Basque society, eh! It's not a priority. It may be a priority for the Basque Government to demand competition, but, of course, if you look at a survey of the priorities of Basque society – and you said so – it is not one of them. That does not mean that we should not discuss it. And I will tell you, you have invited me to the Committee on Justice. I am a member of the Committee on Justice. Before yesterday I was with you on that commission (large, by the way). And, Mrs Goirizelaia (about the Ararteko now, because I will also answer Mrs Goirizelaia), Mrs Goirizelaia, the film was called "The Bubble Boy", I know it perfectly well. And for bubble, in which he has lived his group and continues to live. Because, truly, you come to give me lessons in compliance with the Constitution... I do not say the phrase that Mr Trillo said because it is not well spoken in the rostrum, but, come on, apply it. You, who still do not condemn and do not respect a constitutional right such as the right to life, who do not condemn that violation, and you come here to give us the rest of the constitutional and legal lessons! I'm telling you, apply the phrase. Because you're sure you've made a Copernican twist. He said we had to leave hair on the catera... It's just that you left them all! It's just that your group left them all! Everyone! I understand! Greetings? Let's give it up for the masters of the Basque Nationalist Party! Okay! With the ears they must be clapping! You were asking for prison legislation, which on the other hand you can ask for as an active and passive person, but it is not and will never be the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, because it is state competence, exclusive competence of the State, according to that Constitution which for you is now sacrosanct. It is the exclusive competence of the State, and that is what you claimed. And in that initiative and its amendment... Because, if you had so clearly asked, you would not have tabled an amendment; you vote yes... - No, no, no, That is, they would have said, "I am not submitting an amendment, I will vote that yes directly to the Elkarrekin Podemos proposal." But no, you tabled an amendment with postulates very similar to those of your initiative four months ago, calling for prison legislation. And not here today. Today, that's... As I say to you, not hairs in the catera: they've all been left. And I didn't say they hadn't read Ararteko's report. Sure, I'm sure they've read it to you, of course, but they've read it or brought a piece here. It actually puts that, but it also puts other things. It states: "The recruitment of third-degree interns and interns through the existing employment promotion programmes in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is one of the aspects covered by that convention" (in that convention which I said earlier) "and which has, however, been of little application at this time". Euskadi's competence, of little application. But, moreover, I will tell you that the Ararteko in that report also says: "It can be said that the said convention remains largely a declaration of unimplemented intentions, an instrument whose potentials have not yet been developed." And I said to them, do they demand that from the government? No! No! No, no, And that's what Ararteko says too. As he says – I am not going to bore you, because I have no doubt that you have read it – "we need to review the current systems of incentive and motivation of school activity in terms compared to the rest", that "we need to diversify the current educational offer". That all this is the competence, according to that convention, of our institutions. And there are a number of allusions in that report to the Ararteko that are competition, and you forget that, both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. And, of course, I'm telling you, cheers, with your ears! With the ears, because they've left all their hairs in the catera. They only look at Madrid, and in the meantime, what the Basque Government does seems not to interest them. And, by the way, we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u63	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The seventh point on the theme list: "Mertuition, introduced by the parliamentary laws of the Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna, the UUPV/EHU, in the study area of economic or other necessary resources, is the intention of the department of Education. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Miss problemon, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u64	Chief of Parliament, Congressmen, good noon. They are indispensable instruments of high education and enquiry to ensure the present and future quality of the euscal society. At this moment we must share our thoughts. To believe in that means betting and effort on the university system, which is a preventive tool, because in the budget of a people the prerogatives and targets of the people are reflected, what is to be developed and invested in it. That's why in June, the Basque People joined the head of the Board of Education on this subject, and we bring it back to the present day, when the government introduced the project of the next Precedents. Because if things don't change, the deficits that have been suffered in the past few years (consistence, study, template and installations) will be deeper. Now EHU remains with 500 best schools in the world, considering there are 20,000 colleges in the world according to Shanghai Trunking. And it also appears in Innoovasque's formula that our "UPV/EHU" is the principal institution of education and science in the Renaissance, which published in 2016 the 3148 documents and the WoS 74 documents. Absolute values are also 52% of scientific production and 57 percent. The University of the Basque Country then produces 65% of knowledge in this country, but there is a problem: I mean, it's been a few years. The consequences of this will be fatal to us, if our aim is to be an advanced people, who invests in knowledge, and believes in people. This year's Basque Country University budget, 2010. 15% was lower than the yearly budget. It was 405 million dollars, and the Eusk0's own budget went to the pits before the crisis. In 2016, if the MUDM was 307,9 million euros, 2017 was 304 million, that is, 1,26 was reduced (3.9 million euros less). And this is not all, because this reduction is added to those who come from the past few years. And the contribution introduced to the project in 2018 is 307,3 million euros, that is, it doesn't even equal 2016. This year, the common contribution that MRANK MUK has made to UUPV/EHU has been less than %344, that is, 9,6 million dollars didn't give it to the university, EHU. I mean, the signed agreement hasn't even been served by the government. And in the draft budgets presented the department's financial envelope for current expenditure is increased by 1.8%; however, the regular contribution to the UPV/EHU is only increased by 1.3%. Of course, as a statement of intent, it is very clear. In addition, and although the 2017 budgets showed that the forecast of the contracts programme for 2018 should be 22.54 million euros, the draft budgets for 2018 has lowered this figure by 1.4 million euros. Also, if we compare chapter VII, transfers, the regular contribution to the UPV/EHU for 2018 is expected to fall by 5.6% compared to the 2017 contribution. I mean, it's not just not going up, it's going down. In this chapter too, and although the 2017 budgets showed that the forecast for the 2018 programme contracts should be €9.12 million, the proposed budgets presented for 2018 reduce this figure to €7.1 million. That is to say, a reduction from the agreed amount of EUR 2 million. It's uncomprehending. It is impossible to understand that when the rector, society, and here demand funding must increase what this government has set up in the budget. This whole thing's against a plan of college that's agreed on. The plan itself says that for 2020 years the income of fun would have to be one of 1,2% of the raw internal college system, and the previous rectors, Mr. Highland, announced that it was %1,4, based on the data. But I also want to remember here today what EAJ-PNV says between PSE and the state of government is, because it's planning 1,5% of the raw internal product. If the raw joints in EAE of 2016 were 71.577 million euros, it was a 2017-17-old piece of money that would make EHU in its budgets. It was 0.42% of the raw internal product. And, on the other hand, there is a 5% of the government agreement. The editors of the Basque Country have shown more than once what UUPV/EHU needs to go on: They're asking me to increase funding. And when EH Collector's initiative asked the former editor to rate the last eight years at the Board of Education, the Colonel himself, in his performance, pointed out that the question of the finance of UUPV/EHU should be discussed. He explained to us that we have stable funds that will not be changed for years and increase investments. But I also want to recall the words of rector Nekane Balluerka at the opening ceremony of the academic year, on research, and she said – and they are textual words –: "In this sense, it can be illustrative the exposition of some data extracted from Eustat and Eurostat. With reference to 2015, total R & D expenditure for the European Union as a whole amounted to 2.03 % of GDP, that of Euskadi to 1.84, and that of the Spanish State to 1.22". In other words, our community's R & D spending was close to that of the European Union and significantly higher than that of the state. But by making a specific projection of R & D expenditure carried out by the university sector, and again as a percentage of gross domestic product, things change considerably. In this case the expenditure in Euskadi (0.34 %) is similar to that in the Spanish State (also 0.34%), and falls well below that in the European Union (0.47 %). In other words, in R & D investment specifically aimed at higher education we find a margin of improvement to which we can and I believe we must aspire. In Euskal Herria it is other agents and sectors that perform an important part of what in Europe, on the other hand, does run the university. And I believe that this is something that should be corrected, so that we can approach the European standards that serve as a reference. The consequences of a reorientation of this stalemate would undoubtedly be beneficial. "Of course, as a rector," Balluerka said, "it would be unfair with the university community if it did not manifest the need for a sufficient and stable financial framework that would guarantee the university a full development of its work. Financial sufficiency and economic and legal stability are the keys to ensuring the future of the university." Eta finantziaz ari garela, ezinbesteko era da gogoratzea zer dioen legeak, Legebiltzar honetan onartutako legeak, 3/2004 Legeak, otsailaren 25ekoak, Euskal Unibertsitate Systemerenak, bere zazpigarren titruan. Eta esaten du 90. artikuluan: "The annual allocation from the general budgets of the Community shall be determined in accordance with the criteria laid down in this Law and in the university plan. The allocation to the university shall be agreed by the Government for each financial year and included in the draft law of general budgets of the Autonomous Community on the proposal of the Director-in-Charge of the department responsible for universities, after hearing from the university and report of the Council for the Coordination of University Public Education". This is what we brought in June, and this is what we demand to-day: The second, in accordance with the University Plan, the chief physician explained in interpelation with the following words: "E el caso de la universidad pública, de laUPV/EHU, el universitarian plane un model de financión suficiente para cum elpliniento de sus finalaides." and the third, because the Government introduced the engagements in 2017, and changing them from year to year, as we see; and besides, as we see, credits are reduced. And for this reason there is much need, for the descent made is not necessarily coyductural; for it affects the elements of the structure of the university, which cause the deficiency to grow larger and larger: for instance, everything that has been done leads us not to fulfill the engagements granted to the workers of the university, and not to answer the needs of all the workers (in consequence of which, the preventive, the constraints received in the cattle are maintained, and the conditions of labour are diminished); the restrictions given in teaching, as well as in the ordinary function, are also diminished. It was a 40th and continued like this, which produces in the schools, departments, services, and labs. Do we want that kind of college? ]] That in the budgets that MU MU is employed in the process of testing, the chief agent in the Renaissance (Ballautukka explained his claim in the data), and that the budgets for buildings and maintenance and improvements (intelligence, and not turning it over); and that it should not be re-entered by the Euquination of the Basque treaty, it also obliges that the public care and principle of financing which is not sufficient for the university should be completed (he explained by the head of the intersecrations) should be very poor. What had to be done for that purpose was to use the superfluous remains of the past few years, and spend their own funds, by forcing them to increase the foresight of the different revenues of nature. That's why we bring this illegal proposal today because it's so essential to use temporary financing through the University Plan to support the structure of a public university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u65	Thank you, Miss Trouble. After that, we're going to the teams who're running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u66	Yes, good morning. Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, discussing research and development and innovation, science and public university is discussing the future of Euskadi; that's why from Elkarrekin We believe that investing in education and R & D+i is investing in offering Basque citizens the quality future they deserve. While in order to achieve economic recovery and create decent employment, oriented towards a new productive and responsible consumption model, it is necessary to support innovation and implement R & D & I policies that contribute to placing Euskadi as an innovation hub. And supporting means providing the UPV/EHU with the resources it needs in this case. It is true that Mr Lehendakari on 14 September at the opening of the academic year of the UPV/EHU showed his commitment to keep Euskadi as an innovation pole, and named as one of the challenges the impulse of innovation and proposed to increase every year 5% of the budget allocated to this subject. In fact, we find in the presentation of the budgets the following text: "In the chapter of higher education and research, in 2018 the unequivocal effort will be maintained to support the progress towards excellence of the Basque university system, which will receive a total of 319,7 million euros, reinforcing the policies of specialization, internationalization and planned research". That, if we compare it with past budgets, we might think that this increase actually takes place, but, by analyzing it chapter by chapter, everything indicates that this increase is unreal, or does not at least meet for the public university. Moreover, the evolution of the UPV budgets does not show this commitment, as the funding given in recent years is still far from 2010. In fact, as reflected in the justification for the initiative presented today, both the UPV ex-rector and the current rector continue to demand more budget, because, if not, the service they need cannot be offered to Basque society. Therefore, while there is this government's verbal commitment to the university as a lever of change, this is not in line with the real needs demanded by the managers of the Basque public university. Because this demand is not new, since the ex-rector Iñaki Goirizelaia, at the appearance he offered at the Education Commission last February, in which he presented the balance sheet of his two mandates at the head of the UPV, confirmed that the objectives of the 2011-2014 University Plan had not been met, thus not being able to respond to the needs of a university that aspires to excellence in the fields of training and research. The 2015-2018 University Plan, which is in force and has already passed its equator, will be evaluated during this academic year, and we will see the degree of achievement of the objectives. However, the road is moving forward, and although a major university plan is available, it needs to be accompanied by the budget it needs. For this reason, the initiative presented by EH Bildu, which proposes to design detailed planning to analyse the needs of UPV/EHU and to proceed to stabilize its budgets before determining the budgets for the coming year, seemed to us to be correct. EH Bildu proposed to carry out this design together with the rectoral team, and from Elkarrekin We thought it would be positive to develop the analysis together with representatives of students, teaching and research staff, administration and services staff and the Equality Directorate of the UPV, but we are in compliance – and we have shown that we have signed an agreement with this group – with which the law is currently being enforced. We also changed the order of the points raised, to show that we would see more opportune in the first place to identify the needs of the UPV, and in the second place to provide it with the budget it needs. That is why we were talking about urging the government to increase the budget of the UPV by at least 5% next year. Finally, from Elkarrekin We believe that education and research need a stable medium- and long-term funding framework, beyond a parliamentary legislature. And, as we include in our electoral agenda, we consider it necessary today more than ever to push forward a pact for science and innovation, which promotes a great deal of agreement with all actors and social actors, to assume responsibilities and propose future improvements in a coordinated, consensual and independent way of political change. Scientific and innovation policy must be seen as a priority issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u68	Thank you, President. Today we are debating a motion, on the proposal of the parliamentary group Euskal Herria Bildu, concerning the intentions of the Department of Education in relation to the needs of economic and other resources raised by the UPV in the area of research. For us the university is clear that it has a fundamental role to play and it has to be one of the central axes in the construction of a country, the axis of civil society. The vast majority of the professionals that we have today and those that we will have in the future will come out precisely from the universities, from those now called degrees (formerly degrees), which is the university itself that offers and offers. Those professionals we are talking about are the ones who will then lead and continue to lead the companies and the Basque society of the future, and that is why from the administrations it must be focused so that the funding improves and that the UPV in this case, which is the one that affects us and which we are talking about, the public university of the Basque Country, has the role that belongs to it and should correspond to it. In other debates – Mrs Larion also mentioned this – the Shanghai ranking has been commented on, and the truth is that today is an opportunity to quote this issue again, or at least to bring it up. It is true that in the 2016 report we were between 400 and 500 of the ranking of the best universities in the world, but it is also true that in 2012 we were in the 300-400, a little bit above. This shows that we must continue to work from the institutions to obtain an improvement of the score and to climb placed in this ranking, because it will mean that the University of the Basque Country will have improved in its plans, in its objectives, in its teaching, in its research and in every field that concerns it. As I said, it is up to us to value the university system, which has among its objectives the cultural, economic and linguistic development of society, and the parliamentary group Euskal Herria Bildu is right when he argues that this can only be achieved if our system is strong and rich, and for this the intervention of the Administration is essential. The future of Euskadi is played out in the classrooms, and especially in the university sphere, when people with higher education are trained, because, as I said at the beginning, they are and will be the ones who take care of Basque society and occupy positions in Basque companies and institutions. Unfortunately, however, educational quality is not always measured in euros. That is why my group is going to support the amendment tabled in conjunction with the Basque Nationalist Party, because in speaking of an exact amount, giving it a value and marking a percentage, we do not agree at all. Because you can be more, as you can be less, starting from the budget set. With this I would like to say that perhaps it is not only the most important thing to raise or not 5%, which is what comes to defend the proposed initiative. The budget is also measured by its quality, and above all by its stability. That is why we advocate in the amendment that this budget should continue to be adjusted, and of course with a view to improvement. As far as we are concerned, and it would seem most appropriate to us, it would be that a fixed amount should be fixed in the budgets that does not vary each year and that this variation would result in a decrease in the actual budget devoted to the UPV. Something that Mr Goirizelaia and Mrs Balluerka also had a special impact on. That is what they argued, that there should be a stable budget, as much or more than the above. Once an amount is set in the budget, and that amount increases, it will certainly be welcome regardless of that increase. What we do not agree with is that the percentage of the budget has been decreasing over the years, because, of course, good planning has come with a great budget to meet many of the challenges that the university itself and the government team are facing. Like, for example, the importance of internationalization, what has to do with improving collaborations with other universities, as well as the relationship with other countries, to put the university in its proper place, as well as investing in research and development, as our university is already doing, to achieve educational excellence, stimulating intelligence and knowledge. Another aspect that we think is important, so that the University of the Basque Country has a position as relevant as possible, and which has nothing to do with, in this case, funding and the financial framework, is the importance of trilingualism, because we understand that introducing English and that English is present at the university, together with Basque and Spanish, opens opportunities for students. And for them the University of the Basque Country works, for students and for the society where they are going to live, and it is evident that trilingualism introduces an added factor of improvement in competitiveness and improvement of employment opportunities. We feel it is important, therefore, to offer our students a future that is full of greater opportunities, and that the two vehicle languages are also strengthened, because we understand that English facilitates and opens the doors that students need. We would have liked, like everyone else, that funding could be greater than what the draft budget contains, but we believe that, above all, it is important that these should be adapted to the needs of the university and, above all, that a stable framework for the future should be ensured for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. The topic we're here today to discuss is to discuss the funding of Basque Country University. In this discussion several factors are produced, and we believe that we must all consider the contexts and all the details which are in view. For our group, the funding of the Basque university network is fundamental, as it is, and undoubtedly, that of the University of the Basque Country. For this, we believe it is fundamental in this debate to understand and know how the University of the Basque Country is financed. And this funding, without going further, is explained and detailed in the Law of the Basque University System, specifically in Title 7, on the financial and economic regime of the system. And there we can identify three types of direct contributions that the University of the Basque Country receives in this case, such as, on the one hand, the regular contribution that the Government makes to the University of the Basque Country through its annual general budgets; on the other hand, we have the complementary contribution, that is, the contracts-programme, which varies according to the specific objectives of the department responsible for universities at each time, and also heard the Council for the Coordination of University Public Education, and finally we have the precise credits to provide the multiannual programme of investment and infrastructure, fundamental to the structure and development of the University of the Basque Country. The Act also states that the budgets of the University of the Basque Country shall be fed, in addition to the contribution made by the General Budgets of the Basque Country, by the other public and private revenue provided for, such as public or educational prices, as well as contracts with other entities or natural persons that may be provided by the university. On the other hand, we cannot avoid the funding that comes to the University of the Basque Country through other programmes that are not directly included in the budget of the Department of Education, such as the contribution of research groups, mobility programmes, general pre- and post-doctoral scholarships, grants to organize congresses, as well as other programmes that strengthen the project of the public university, such as the contribution of the DIPC, the budget of Ikerbasque, or the call of the BERC programme. To these programs we must also add those that are managed through other departments of the Basque Government, which we cannot ignore, and among which we must highlight those that start and are managed by the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, through the Basque Plan of Science, Technology and Innovation, or also those associated with the Department of Health. As I say, these are the main programmes, but we must not forget that there is not a single department of this government that does not actively collaborate and fund actions and programmes of the University of the Basque Country, either through chairs or ad hoc research projects, advice, etc. That is why we have to make it clear that the Department of Education's direct contribution to the University of the Basque Country must be supplemented by many other programmes which, taking them into account as a whole, make the Government's contribution to this public university considerably better. Without going further, if we compare the funding of the University of the Basque Country with that of other public universities of the State, we see how our public university is, by far, the best funded in its environment. It is noteworthy how the public funding of the UPV by the Basque Government is far above that of other reference public universities, such as Catalans or Madrid; but not only that, but despite the difficult situation we have experienced in recent years, this Government has continued to make a significant effort in relation to the budgets that the Department of Education allocates to the University of the Basque Country. In this regard, we believe that the Basque Government through the Department of Education is managing properly and economically supporting the public university, in a remarkable and sustainable way, always taking into account another of the main axes of this debate, such as the university plan currently in force, the 2015-2018 University Plan, and the financial criteria set out in it. I would like to highlight here how other neighbouring communities, for example in Navarre, have given way to such agreements very recently, so we can say that we are pioneers and referents of other European communities and countries in this area. The plan at the time was based on a reality and a very different context from that of its predecessors, as it is developing in a totally different socio-economic period than it had previously been, in which budget availability is currently limited, and of sustained growth. That is why the resources committed in the plan for this period 2015-2018 and the actions to be supported must be based on efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability criteria. In short, it is a question of properly managing the resources, in order to promote the advance of the Basque university system on the basis of what has been done so far, which is not a small one. In particular, if we proceed to the implementation of the plan, we see that the Government has made sustained efforts in the regular contribution and also in the programme contracts. In addition, the University of the Basque Country receives most of the resources associated with competitive programmes managed by the Research Directorate and receives substantial amounts associated with the Government's objectives in this area. I would also like to stress that European scientific policy promotes competition as a basis for obtaining economic funds associated with research programmes. This policy also requires the definition of projects and the presentation of calls, and it is a policy that fully coincides with Basque scientific policy and that, therefore, it is essential to maintain for the sake of the university itself. But not just that. We believe that, with a view to the next plan, the 2019-2022 plan, which will begin shortly, must give priority to the firm objective of progress towards excellence by the University of the Basque Country and also by the other universities of our system. An objective that we must help to pursue through the elaboration of an ambitious plan in this area, which pursues quantifiable, evaluable and also feasible objectives, which are accompanied by funding in accordance with them in the three modalities that I have commented on at the beginning of my intervention, as well as the needs that may arise in this period 2019-2022. That is why we believe that, beyond the percentages, figures and other specific issues and debates, we must keep to the firm commitment already reflected in the university plan currently in force and which we reiterate today in the amendment signed with the Socialist Group, so that the funding of the University of the Basque Country continues to be commensurate with the real needs and objectives of the university. But not only that, because we also foresee and urge the Basque Government to draw up the next plan (the 2019-2022 plan) with the main objective of strengthening the progress towards excellence of the University of the Basque Country, but also of the other universities that make up our system, so that, in the end, it can be improved. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. The Basque Popular Group that hasn't been running any corrections. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u72	We read with great interest the GNP that was presented, as well as the amendment that the EH Bildu and Podemos groups have signed. The first thing that caught our attention is that, at this stage of the course, we believe that these requests for an increase in the budget should go more by amendment to the 2018 budget than by a non-legislative proposal. Because to increase 5%, then, we do not say no, but we say for what, where. That is what this GNP lacks. I will refer to the data from the last budget that we have approved, which is last year's, this year's 2017: 403 million. 5%, if I'm not mistaken, would be 20 million more. Okay, it's possible, but for what? For what? We therefore believe that this type of increase should be made rather by means of an amendment to the budget. But then there is another thing that almost gives a lot to say, and that is that we are here to ask the government what society transmits to us, because we represent the citizens, and here we have transmitted – and to us it does not seem bad in principle – the petitions of both the President and the President. They're both asking for more money. Okay. But we are also here to transmit to the Government the citizens' requests to the Government for the Government to make them to the university. And why do I say this? Well, we think we need to do a serious, deep study of what is going on with our university, and what citizens are asking of our university, and, therefore, what should we ask the government to ask for from the university. This is a two-way road. Bidirectional. What should be increased by 5%? Perfect, except for an amendment, and to be told exactly which way. But what do citizens ask of the university? Well, I think they're asking for excellence, and they're asking that the people, the young Basques who leave college, be considered excellent. This is the case now. Well, look, this is hard to say. It's hard to say, because it looks like you're talking badly about something that's ours and that's everyone's, but starting from a correct diagnosis is the only way to improve the situation. So, let's see, here we were talking about the UPV, and even the Basque university system, including the University of Mondragon, the University of Deusto... the whole Basque university system, but we're not an island. We're not an island. So let's see what happens, how they consider us in the international arena, and also with regard to the universities that we have closest. 2017 Shanghai ranking data; let's read what other Spanish universities... , how is the ranking of Spanish universities. First Pompeu Frabra, then University of Barcelona, then University of Granada, then Autonomous Barcelona, then Autonomous Madrid, then Complutense Madrid, then Santiago de Compostela, then Polytechnic Valencia, then Jaume I, then (here we come) the University of the Basque Country, and behind us is the University of Valencia. And then we have the data from the CYD Foundation, which is the Foundation for Knowledge and Development (the data I have given you before are 2017, these are 2016), which says that the UPV is the one that spends the most money for students from all universities in Spain, exactly 9,073 euros, and the one that also has the lowest fees, 1,243 euros. Data from 2016. See, all Basque citizenship is making a big investment in college. So, it is not only what we ask the government for the university, making us spokesmen for the presidents; it is also what we ask the government to ask the university, I think making us spokesmen for the citizens. Look, I'm going to give you another example, the University of Granada, which is the third in the ranking of 2017. The University of Granada has 3,847 teachers; we have 5,709. I'm not going to tell you that twice, but almost. With two thirds or less of our teachers, they attend 68,995 students. We, with a third more, serve 50,000 students, 10,000 less students than the University of Granada. And, as you know well, our budget last year was 403 million; the budget of the University of Granada is 391 million (likely, but to cater for many more students with many less teachers). So, you know well that Shanghai's ranking, like PISA, is divided into specialties. One in which we are better off than the general number, which is 492 out of 500, is the specialty of Engineering, Technology and Computer Science. That's where we look pretty good. We're between 151 and 200. Well, do you know where the University of Granada is, with these things I've explained to you? It's number 45. Do you know which Spanish university has the highest number of patents annually? The public university of Valencia. Gentlemen, what I want is for this to go ahead and take off, and kick. What should be 5 % more? All right. Now, that's right, by amendment, and tell me where. But what we have to do is a very serious study to know why, being the autonomous community that spends more money per student, from all over the country we are the tenth in the Shanghai ranking. That we're still in Shanghai's hair ranking. That we're at 492 out of 500. That in the year 2012 we were in the position three hundred forty and peak, and we started to go down, down and down... And in 2015 we went up, we went up a lot. In 2016 we went down again, and in 2017 we went up a bit, but we did not reach the levels of 2015. Wouldn't this have to make us reflect as a society? That is why we are going to vote for the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, which are the ones supporting the Government. But we do not want to support it to pass and give a long change. No, no, We ask you, we beg you, please, to take it seriously. Let them take it seriously. That it's a lot of money, and that we have to reconcile what the Rectors are asking – which I think is fine – with what Basque society is asking for. Everyone who is here, I believe – of course, I personally do – we know boys and girls with excellent, excellent grades, who are having to go to work outside. We have to create that real broth of cultivation that will make us thrive. Our support, I tell you, is not a long-changing support. It's not. That is why we did not want to join the amendment either. It's a real... I'm not going to say supplication, because it sounds a little bad, it's a real request to be taken seriously. Remember: those of us who spend the most for students in all of Spain, and we are in the tenth place, and we are scratching the caernos, taking us off the Shanghai index. We wait, we trust that they will really take it as seriously as we ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing on the answers round, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours. Madame LARRION'S HORN: Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Pastor, I already know what you would like to vote for. Besides, I have no doubt. Because when we also compare the evolution of spending we see, in the midst of the economic crisis, with Councilwoman Celaá and with Pedro Luis Uriarte as Director of Universities, the effort that was made. And I've even noticed it in his words. I believe that at some point, when it is possible to raise from the left, we are certain to reach these kinds of agreements. With which I believe he is now a slave to his agreements, which I understand perfectly, but I believe that those of us who dream of a university in another way, and with another way of doing the public, have a future ahead of us, in which I hope to find ourselves again. Mrs Bengoechea, aside from some questions, some of the data you have given is incorrect. Without further ado, the current number and the figure given at the beginning of the course, for example, of professors at the university, is currently 4,405. I do not act at this time on behalf of the university – let them say so – but some data may be incorrect, as we all present some incorrect. I wasn't going to say more either, but, well, the figures aren't exactly those. However, I am going to answer where we put 5%. Because 5% is not ours, it is not EH Bildu's or Podemos's: it is directly what has been requested from the university itself. And they were just saying – and I'm also going to say their words – "This, this year's, is certainly not the budget that the UPV needs. We will continue to work to improve this situation significantly in the coming years, because otherwise we will not be able to provide Basque society with the service that this demand for the UPV, nor to compete with solvency in an increasingly demanding university context." He continued: "I want to express my deep concern, but also my best readiness to reach the necessary agreements that will allow us to find ourselves in a more favourable situation next year." That's why we brought him now; they asked him for the next year. "As we have said in different instances" – and we have seen it in different speeches they have given – "the funding of the Basque university should increase at least 5%. For several years now, this need to increase the funding of the UPV, which would, in principle, go to sections such as research, has been called for, because the Government's Budget Stability Act prevents increased staffing and redeployments." In any case, I am sure that they are not only able to tell us what they are going to spend 5%, but I can tell you from the point of view that with the planned increase in regular contributions it does not even give for the pay..., the increase that has to be given by 1% to officials. But I think that, if that is your interest in knowing what 5% is to be spent on, there is a detailed explanation that, especially if you had told us that before now, we could have reported it and worked on it. Because, of course, the needs of the university, of the UPV, go well beyond 5%. But good. Mr Alvarez, I invite you, in addition to how you have said it, to take the budget document that you have submitted to us and to take the 2017 budget document. I'll also tell you what to do: go to the 41801003 and read what I proposed for 2017 21.144,213 euros, which puts – in parentheses – "credit committed for the year 2018", and puts 22,54 million euros. And now go to that item in the 2018 budget proposal, and see how the government has dropped from 22.54 to 20.914. Do exactly the same with the 71801002, and see how, where 8,147,000 appears and a committed credit for 2018 of 9,12, read that it now puts 7,132,000. Precisely you, who have talked about what kind of contributions are given to the university and how there are commitment credits and agreements according to objectives, see how what was said since the government in 2017, in 2018 those amounts have decreased. Of course these are the ways to give funding to the University of the Basque Country! They're coming down! It's just they're coming down. And even in the department itself, with game increases in different chapters... I read, for example, in chapter VII, which says "against the previous exercise, they experience an increase of 4.3% (page 204 of this heading), and read how for the University of the Basque Country the increase..., in the comparison itself, decreases by 5.6%. That is what we are talking about, precisely the agreements that the Government had in the university plan with the University of the Basque Country and that are not being complied with. They didn't read them anyway, but that's what we were claiming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u75	Yes, thank you. Well, in replying a little to Mr Pastor in reference to 5% – already mentioned by EH Bildu's MP – the rector asked for 5%, and it was the lehendakari who committed himself in September (textual words), to give impetus to innovation, proposed to increase every year 5% of the budget allocated to this matter. That 5% comes out of the mouth of the current rector and the current lehendakari. Our surprise is when a bowl and dish is announced this increase of 5%, exactly 16.3 million, by the tax advisor, and by making numbers with the different numbers of the budget we see that only a quarter of this budget is for the UPV; the rest we understand that it is for the university teachings, but of course this 5% that the lehendakari announced for the UPV is not such. Hence our concern and hence having supported EH Bildu's initiative. I will tell Mr Álvarez that we will continue to try to be a reference, lest we sleep in conformism and remain in figures like those mentioned by the Rector last September. We will, however, have the opportunity to present all our doubts on Tuesday at the Councillor's appearance with the Finance Councillor, so that they can be clarified, and we will logically table an amendment in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Socialists. Yes, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u77	Yes, from the seat, if I may. Well, I want to say to Mrs Larion and Mrs Macazaga that you are indeed raising a specific percentage of the increase, it is true. It's probably not the one we'd all like, but it's the one that's possible right now. But I do want to remind you that both Mr Goirizelaia and Mrs Balluerka insisted on this, but they insisted so much or more on the financial stability of the UPV. Because there is no university, not the UPV or any other, that can make any medium or long-term planning without a minimally stable horizon. I say as much or more important than the quantification of it. In any case, as you said in your speech, we are at the right time. That will be the political decision, the opportunity and the desire to reach or not a budgetary agreement. We have publicly invited all the groups, and we reiterate this again, to allow you, through amendments, or at least try to improve some aspects that may seem interesting to you, such as the Basque university system, in this case the funding of the UPV.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam, you have mentioned several things: the explanation is clear, and because money is continued to pay for wages, and therefore there is no need, as has been said or foreseen, to do. Then again, it has also been discussed about 5% connected with the government's innovation, and we must understand that the government has never said that 5% of the President's actions are to be increased, but that the Board of Education tries to make new actions, so that this promotion is not connected with it. Eta..., yes, I would like to comment that when Mrs Larion commented on the statements of the Rector of the University of the Basque Country, I was curious that she finished the sentence in "5%", because reading the full sentence says "5% in this mandate". Therefore, we are in favour of continuing to adapt and further improve the funding of the University of the Basque Country, so that it continues to increase and adapt to its real needs. So, yes, I would urge you to say things as they really are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u80	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Finally, Esquila Popular Group rep. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u81	Mrs Larion, I have not been wrong, I have not been confused, what may be is that you have expressed me wrong. The data I have given you are from 2017, except one, which is the data of the CYD Foundation, which is 2016 and which refers to the numbers of 2015. I may not have expressed myself well, but I assure you they are correct. And, after all the speeches we have heard, we, of course, by amendment are going to try to improve the endowment of the Basque public university in those aspects that we think need to be improved. Because we listened attentively to both Mr Goirizelaia's intervention and Mrs Balluerka's intervention, but we continue to insist that this is a two-way road: here we are asking the Government and asking the Government, making us spokesmen of the Rectors, which is correct, but we are also spokesmen of the citizenry. And we believe that there has to be a reasonable level of demand, prolonged in time, staggered if you want, but that the comparative results we currently have of the UPV do not sympathize with the effort made by citizens. What I was saying to them: more investment per student than in any other university in Spain, and we are the tenth; we cling not to fall out of the ranking, and we also have one of the larger budgets, in general. Our group then addresses the Government to ask that, as well as having to meet the demands made by the UPV, it also has to transfer the demands of the citizenry to it. We are not an island, we have very close comparisons, and the great international comparison, which is Shanghai, and we are not having good results. We're not having them. I'm telling you, Valencia's public university is the one with the most patents in all of Spain. Why don't we be, if we're investing more money? Why not? We should be. So we are going to vote in favour of the amendment of the groups supporting the Government, but we have moved, we have forwarded that request to the Government, which is represented here by the Councilwoman: that she not only responds to the university's requests – which must be done, and we will also make amendments in this regard – but that she also transmits the demands of the citizenry, which cannot be satisfied with the results that the public university of the Basque Country is currently obtaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Well, we'll vote. First point, the motion introduced by Euscal Populars to encourage families to assist them. We'll vote here first with Mrs Garrido Knörr's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u83	So, not allowed original text. Next, the middle-term correction of Podemos and EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u84	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. And finally, we'll vote for the eucalypcan patriots and the amendment signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u85	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The fifth point, the other proposition, as presented by the parliamentary team, concerning the direction and direction of the handling of the economic regime of Social Security. We shall first vote the original text of the lawal proposal of the EH group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 18; contraries, 55; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u86	So it's not accepted. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u87	So, it's not supposed to be the full correction of the Podemos team together. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u88	So, it's not accepted the full correction of the population team. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Eukalia, who are the leaders of the whole community. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 35; the opponents of the enemy, 38; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u89	So, it's not allowed to be the Euko patriots and the Basque Socialists to rectify the whole group. The sixth point in the subject list, the same proposal as the Podemos introduced, concerning the transfer of the prison rights. Together, Podemos, Basque Socialists, we'll vote for EH and the Eubertarian contractors. We'll vote for the middle-line correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 64; the opponents are 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u90	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: Mrs. problemon's motion, the intention of the Board of Education about economic or other economic means in the field of investigation which UUPV/EHU points. We'll assemble EH and vote together for the middle-term correction signed by the Podemos team. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u91	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. And now we're going to vote for the Eucabertist and the entire correction of the Basque Socialists together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 28; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u92	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. I'll have pledones until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u93	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. The eighth point in the subject list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Groups did, was to make a plan that would have the measures to promote the production of the Eukadin remains. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. "Residual water and its reuse", this is the motto chosen by the United Nations Assembly for the celebration of Water Day, March 22, 2017. We very often forget that we belong to a country, Spain, developed, without serious problems of drinking water supply, with a high level of purification. What happens every day in our homes, having quality drinking water supply, is a great social achievement. A social achievement that does not reach 630 million people, who do not have quality drinking water. In addition, we have systems for sanitation, waste water collection and treatment; systems that do not reach 2.4 billion people. Climate change, its effects and cuts in cooperation funds have not helped to improve the global situation. The reuse of clean water has been taking place for several decades. It is in Royal Decree 849/86 that a major legislative change takes place, which requires the adaptation of the articles of the regulation of the hydraulic public domain dedicated to the reuse of the purified waters, in accordance with the mandate of the General Health Act of the same year, Law 14/1986. All this in order to meet a general objective provided for in the above-mentioned Law, which is not other than that the competent water administrations must participate in this field through the monitoring, promotion and improvement of the systems that allow to reach parameters of water quality compatible with the health of the population. Other changes have occurred to this legislation, always with the aim of improving this practice and its management and extending the model to the rest of Europe, so that the management and reuse of clean water is included in the hydrological plans of the second cycle 2015-2021. And during 2016 the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, together with the European Commission and Malta, worked in a group on water reuse to design strategies to increase the efficiency of the use of resources, in addition to the minimum quality requirements that will be required for these waters, with the aim of developing a European guide of good practices for the reuse of clean water. And why can we use these waters or what can we use these purified waters for, which is already regulated in some way? For residential urban use, irrigation of private gardens, discharge of sanitary equipment, for services, irrigation of urban green areas, cleaning of streets, washing of industrial cars, systems against fires, for agricultural use, pastures, aquaculture, irrigation, woody crops, nurseries, fodder... In Vitoria we have a very interesting example about this irrigation system with reused water from purification. But also for industrial use, for processing and cleaning water, for cooling towers, for recreational use, for irrigation of golf courses (this is also given in Spain at many points), for environmental use, for recharge of aquifers, for irrigation of forests (forestry), green areas, maintenance of wetlands or minimum flow rates, etc. Each person uses approximately 200 litres of water per day. Wastewater treatment and reuse is a way of addressing water scarcity, extending the water life cycle and preserving resources. Karmenu Vella, European Commissioner for the Environment, Maritimes and Fisheries, said that for the circular economy the greatest potential lies in the reuse of treated municipal waters. This re-use can also be an economic opportunity that European Union companies can take advantage of, helping to create jobs and opportunities and to avoid negative impacts on the environment. The European Commission is encouraging and further promoting the collection of municipal waste water for use in agriculture mainly and recharge of aquifers. This reuse of water and its destination for agriculture is an important benefit: the volume of hectares can be kept in water and this supply guaranteed in periods of drought, reducing the risk of bad harvests and loss of income due to lack of water. It also has a positive impact on the value of land. It gives value to drylands. In Álava, as I told you before, we have a very interesting example: the wastewater station and reused in Arrato. It was built by the Foral Diputación de Álava in 1994, with an investment of 400 million pesetas. It reuses 50% of what is purified in Crispijana, 30,000 cubic meters, which are dedicated to irrigation of approximately 4,500 hectares and which affects twenty-one villages of the City of Vitoria, and is an example that has also been recognized by Unesco. Therefore, there are models, and what is needed is that we continue to work in this area. For example, they told us from the Rioja Alavesa Water Consortium that it would be interesting to reuse, because they are concerned about the scarcity of water resources, the problems of supply in some areas; because it could be used for the moderate use of public gardens, also private gardens, for street cleaning, for the control of orchards... In short, I believe that the reuse of clean water is necessary to address it, and that is the purpose of presenting our initiative. Our group presented an initiative, the groups supporting the Government and Elkarrekin We have tabled amendments. We have reached a compromise amendment that we will vote in favour of the groups of the Government and the People's Group, and I believe the rest will abstain. But, in any case, this initiative seems to me to be a very positive position, because the reuse of clean water is necessary. Because there are those who, given the scarcity of water, propose to reduce the hectares of irrigation, to reduce industries that consume a lot of water, and that is to impoverish us. And what we have to achieve is to approach this in an integral way, and to use reuse as we are told from the European Union and the Member States. The compromise amendment we have reached reads as follows: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in coordination with the other bodies and institutions responsible for water management in the Basque Country, to promote and develop existing plans for the implementation of waste water reuse systems in the Basque Country, in accordance with the proposal of the European Union for the safe and efficient reuse of water, in particular by carrying out the necessary technical and economic feasibility studies of the reuse of water from certain EDARs, as well as, where appropriate, any incentive measures to users". As I said, these measures are contained in the hydrological plans, but it is true that they must be put in a context of how we can apply it here. We are in 2017, these plans are 2021; therefore, what we say at this point is that we are developing these measures and that incentive measures are also activated, so that those systems that are in place are improved, that the issues that need to be changed are changed so that they are fully adapted to the European idea or to the guide of good practice that is being done from Europe, and that the water that they transform is of the best quality possible. In the second point we say that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in coordination with the bodies and institutions responsible for water management in the Basque Country, to establish a programme of subsidies for the study of technical-economic feasibility and the necessary improvements to adapt to the requirements of the European legislation on the matter for holders of waste water reuse systems operating in the Basque Country". New, modern clean-up infrastructures are being developed, and it would be interesting if the feasibility of whether these clean-up waters could be reused would be studied. We agree that the viability plans should be made, that subsidies should be given to make these viability plans, but I believe that this is a timely time to enhance these re-use systems. There is a very singular fact that I have already said this more often in this House talking about water, but it is that the dry part of the Basque Country supplies water to the wet part. This is curious, singular, but that's what happens. This morning we heard the representative of the Bilbao Water Consortium, who, if it doesn't rain in a month, will have problems with the supply of drinking water. What's going on? We will have to think about what to do to ensure that these circumstances do not pass because in a period of five months there is no precipitation. And we don't have those systems today. A few years ago, when there was a drought, driving pipes were made to link water from other supply systems, but today these pipes have not been revised and are completely destroyed. If tomorrow there is a difficulty in giving drinking water to the entire population, we should do the pipe again, because the one we did in his day, which has not been maintained, is destroyed, because there has been no maintenance. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of water has to be taken very seriously. But very seriously. It's our base of operation! And, therefore, I think that, in addition to having the pipes in condition, we have to think that if we can take advantage of the purified water and reuse it, then it is our obligation to meet this need, because we have nothing left, and that we are in a privileged area. But we don't have a good distribution here. As I was telling you, the dry part of the Basque Country supplies water to the wet part. That said, I think it's to make us think that something we're not doing right. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u95	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u96	Good afternoon, everyone. I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz that the issue of water is very serious and requires deep reflection, and in that sense I logically recognize the merit of having presented this initiative, and also the merit of having linked it to the circular economy, which is a question which, although very fashionable in certain areas, needs to be landed in this water too. However, beyond gratitude, once we saw the proposition that made us, which is a correct proposal from the theoretical point of view, it has created us doubts from the practical point of view. Why? Firstly, because the countries that are currently addressing the issue of waste water reuse are countries with a much higher shortage of water resources than those of Euskadi. Important things are being done in Tunisia, Egypt, Mexico, even in regions like Murcia, but they are not in the same situation as Euskadi. And, on the other hand, you have linked it to the circular economy, and it is true that the European Union recommends reuse of water, but not just waste water, but other types of water as well. And the European Union also says one important thing, and it is that the quality of this water must be adapted to the type of use that is intended to be given, in order not to use drinking water, for example, for irrigation of streets, as is being done. But, having said that, your proposal should be analysed in the light of what the situation of waste water in the Basque Country is today. Firstly, the scarcity of water resources or not. And I would say to you that in Euskadi today we should not miss the water, because we are a sufficiently humid region. The problem is that it's being mismanaged right now. It's mismanaged, and possibly even misdistributed, I can give it to you. On the one hand, we use more water than we really need; on the other hand – and it was already demonstrated in last week's debate – we don't debug what we use, or we debug it badly, or even the debugging infrastructure doesn't work properly. And, in short, what we have is that we are inefficient in the use of water. So, if we look at these two issues, that of the waste of water and that of the poorly purified water, we would have that with regard to the waste of water there are very few campaigns today that refer to savings, and even less in the agricultural sector, which, as you have said, is the one that is beginning to have greater difficulties today or the one that can see the ears to the wolf of climate change, especially in certain regions of southern Álava and so on. There are few savings campaigns; water rates are low. The European Union says that the Spanish State does not cover the costs of the service. And, of course, with low tariffs and insufficient taxation – because the water canon that is applied in Euskadi is not universal, there are sectors that do not pay the water canon, among them also the agricultural sector – so what we have is that in the end we do not have a tendency to save water, and this is an important problem. That is an important problem. If today our urban and industrial water consumption were to be lower, both in the capital and possibly in the Great Bilbao, then the effect on the Zadorra system would be very positive, Mrs López de Ocariz, possibly the swamp guarantee curve would have to be lower, and consequently the flow of the Zadorra and the availability of water for irrigation would be possibly also higher. I want to tell you that we should not only look at reusing water, but also that water saving could possibly have a positive effect on watering as well. It is not a question, as you say, that there is less irrigation or that there is less industry, but that those irrigation and those industries use water efficiently. And with regard to poorly purified water, of course, this is the second problem we have in Euskadi. The consequences – I said last week – of not investing in purification infrastructure are that we have an impact on the health of the population, a possible impact, and an impact on the economy, in the form of less water for irrigation and worse crops. Of course, if we have poor quality water, poor quality waste water, poorly purified, the proposal you make loses some of its meaning. Why? Because the uses of reused water, for example for the irrigation of crops for human consumption, are very problematic, as problematic as they can have consequences of bacteria, viruses, presence of antibiotics, heavy metals or, as has been seen in the waters of the Crispijana depurator, even lindane. In the Spanish State, in fact, there is a royal decree, which is 1620/2007, which says that a binding report by the health authority is necessary before the reuse of waste water is carried out. And, of course, today, with the situation and the panorama we raised last week, that Basque wastewater is often poorly purified, then, there is a first major problem. We could use those waste water for other uses. There are uses that are interesting, such as the irrigation of urban areas or the use in fire installations, but I return to the same thing: if we have poor quality water, that will be a source of possible bad odors and discomforts also in the urban environment. And we could use it for other less interesting uses in Euskadi, such as the irrigation of forest plantations or the recharge of aquifers, but to this day I reiterate that in Euskadi they are not matters, let us say, of paramount importance, which can be in other countries or elsewhere with greater water stress. What we do consider in our group, and hence the amendment we made to its proposal, is that we have a type of water in Euskadi that we could reuse, which is rainwater, rainwater. Because it is true that we have a high rainfall, especially in the wet part of Euskadi, and we have there an option to reuse water that I believe is much more interesting even than that of sewage from the scrubbers. And that is why our amendment was in that direction. Of course, in order to be able to use those rainwaters we need powerful investment plans and studies, similar to what you propose for wastewater, but even more far-reaching. It is necessary to develop, for example, separative networks of rainwater and wastewater, in order to be able to separate them properly. We need to develop systems to take advantage of the surpluses that may exist in pools or storm tanks, which, for example, are becoming quite popular on the cantabrian side. We have to eliminate the leaks in the supply... Last week the Government of La Rioja reported that 48 per cent of drinking water is being wasted on their supply networks. 48 per cent, says the Government of La Rioja. Well, possibly in the Rioja Alavesa, you might want to do a similar study! In fact, there is an audit, but I have been unable to find the result of that audit. What does this mean? That we have to do a lot of other things before we deal with the reuse of waste water, especially if we are not in a position to reuse it properly. We must, therefore, thoroughly clean up the waste water before we proceed to this reuse, and we must also – I have to say here – orient the modernisation of the waters, also of the Alaves waters, to the efficient use of water. It is not necessary to modernize per se, but specifically to orient this modernization to the efficient use of water. In conclusion, although we see that his proposal is interesting, we do believe that he misses the shot, in the sense that there are other more interesting options, which does not mean that we oppose. In fact, our position will be to abstain from the compromise amendment but to maintain ours, because we believe that the question of rainwaters is one that should be of greater importance and weight today. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u98	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, the issue of the reuse of water raised today by Mrs López de Ocariz, listening to some spokesman who has just spoken, seems to be a new issue in Euskadi, and in Euskadi this issue is already being done, it is already being done, and of course it will be done. That they are actually techniques that can be improved, probably, but neither can you come to this rostrum by raising the issue as if it were something new within the Administration. The Basque Government is even asked to put the noses in competences that are not specific to the government departments, but that the municipalities also have a lot to say, and are very jealous of their own competences. You have spoken, Mr Becerra, of savings campaigns. I think they're done. He has talked about the issue of water tariffs, and has even named the topic of the canon of water. And it's one of those issues that you're very much in agreement with when we talk in the gallery or when we write papers about the paper, but when it comes to agreeing the canon of water... I would like you to read all the minutes of the sessions, when we passed the Water Act, all that involved the approval of a canon, since there were only two political groups that we wanted that canon of water, and the difficulties that the municipalities had since the approval, which is why we are still as we are. Because the canon of water is very well (minimum levels are set, and depends on the use made by businesses or citizens), but when it comes to putting them into operation, it is very unpopular what the canon of water assumed in the law that we passed in this Parliament. He was also talking about supply leaks. It's true, but it's also fair to say that not everyone does the same. There are administrations that have made great investments to prevent water leaks in terms of supply, and there are others that have looked elsewhere, because they knew that they had guaranteed water supply to their citizens, having much more budget than the one that has leaks. Therefore, I think it is also a very complex issue, where there are different administrations and different entities involved, and I think it certainly gives a lot to talk about and discuss. And, as I said, the reuse of water, as Mrs López de Ocariz proposes today, is one of those issues that always arises especially when there is a shortage of water. And we are actually living in times when, because of climate change, we talk about drought, and we can even sometimes talk about torrential waters, which the earth is unable to absorb and which also cause problems. There are hydrological plans that affect the Basque Country in relation to this issue, such as the Hydrological Plan of the Eastern Cantabrian Hydrographic Demarcation, which in that URA has much to say; the Hydrological Plan of the Western Cantabrian Hydrographic Demarcation, elaborated by the Cantabrian Hydrographic Confederation; the Hydrological Plan of the Ebro Hydrographic Demarcation... And all of them have been recently revised and promulgated by Royal Decree 1/2016 of 8 January, approving the revision of hydrological plans. That is why, sometimes when talking about the need for new plans, there is no need to make new plans, because the plans are made. What needs to be done is to check them, and let them be carried out. The most significant reuses in the Basque Country today are not one or two, they are several. That's why Mr. Becerra said they were made. The most significant are, for example, the Community of Arrat Regents, in Álava, which reuses waste water from the Crispijana EDAR, destined for a manageable area of 4,000 hectares, with an estimated reuse volume of four cubic metres per year (there is therefore a great deal; yes, it is reused); Petronor, at its Muskiz plant in Bizkaia, reuses and subsequently incorporates water from the low salinity industrial wastewater treatment plant; the Bilbao-Bizkaia Water Consortium reuses part of the discharge of the Galindo sewage treatment plant in the cooling processes of the energy assessment plant for sewage sludges; it is also worth noting that pumping is carried out during the months of scaling from the effluent of the High Urola upstream. Therefore, in Euskadi the water is reused. And the City of Vitoria, which I have to say is one of the municipalities that has made the most investments to avoid leaks, so that the facilities are as they have to be, and has gone ahead of municipalities with a much larger budget, reuses waste water from the Crispijana EDAR for bucketing and irrigation of gardens, with an estimated current figure of 20,000 cubic meters per year. I therefore believe that it can and must be improved, because we see the problems that are beginning to arise with climate change, the drought that other autonomous communities are suffering more than Euskadi, and of course we should act on them. In the Eastern Cantabrian Hydrological Plan, reuse is addressed. The action plan is focused on promoting the reuse of waste water in processes compatible with its quality, encouraging industries to replace conventional water resources with reused water. Because it is understood that industries have a higher consumption of water and, indeed, it would be advisable for them to reuse and probably the levels that they already have could exceed them. In the Ebro Hydrological Plan, reuse is addressed in a more general way. It refers to the desirability of promoting regeneration for agricultural uses, irrigation of gardens, golf courses, forestry, etc., in addition to noting the high degree of regulatory requirement. In the programme of measures there are no concrete forecasts of a significant increase in the reuse of waste water for the territory of Álava, and it needs to be made clear that, although in previous decades there have been certain specific initiatives (because there have been them) for the use of waste water, they are now considered obsolete and are therefore out of the question, but new initiatives need to be put in place that are more time-bound. In this sense, in relation to the reuse for irrigation uses, the agricultural administrations of the Basque Country, including the Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava, are already promoting in recent years an approach that is fundamentally committed to higher quality agriculture. These administrations have considered that this approach may not be compatible with the use of regenerated water as a source of irrigation. As a result, the latest irrigation improvement plans bet not on the significant increase in reuse, but on the regulation of winter runoff. We could keep talking about this, I think it's a more technical issue than anything else. All I wanted to say was that the Administration has been working on these issues in Euskadi for a very long time. I believe that the issues that Mr Becerra has raised at the end are the issues that need to be addressed (efficiency and saving on the water issue), and we realize that it is a finite natural resource, more and more; that is why we need to do it better and better. But it is also true that when we have tried from the administrations to put in place some tools it is easy to vote in favour, and it is very difficult to get to the city council and tell it to put in place. And that's why I was telling him at first that the water cannon then had more problems than it seemed at the beginning. As a conclusion... two conclusions. The planning of initiatives and infrastructure for the reuse of urban wastewater is already being carried out, and is in the hydrological plans that affect the historical territory of Álava, i.e. the hydrological plans of the hydrographic demarcations of the Eastern Cantabrian and Ebro, both recently revised and promulgated by the above-mentioned decree approving the revision of the hydrological plans of the hydrographic demarcations of the Western Cantabrian, among others, although they affect many more. And the second conclusion is that, with regard to the study on the improvement or adaptation of existing re-use systems, we consider that the studies on improvement and adaptation, which are reflected in the three proposals of the parliamentary groups we were participating in (one parliamentarian in the initial initiative, and others as amendments), and in accordance with the principles emanating from Article 9, should be addressed by the installation holder. We often intend, from parliamentary initiatives, to act on some points, but really who has to act in this case is the owner of the facility itself. Another thing is that from the Basque Government they believe, well, I do not know whether to call them obligations, or that they are urged to act, but indeed when you own an installation you must act on it. According to the list of facilities mentioned above, it is considered that in practice the only system affected is that of the Community of Regents of Arrat, which is probably one of the concerns that Mrs López de Ocariz had and that, of course, we understand that it is one of those that uses water already used, although I agree with both Mrs López de Ocariz and Mr Becerra that it is indeed a subject on which we must continue to work. It probably takes investment to carry this out, because it is true that in the end the paper endures everything, and that is why one of the points in the agreed compromise amendment talks about subsidies, because in the end this is it. If you don't have a budget, it's hard to come up with a solution. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u99	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u100	Yes, thank you, Chief. Congressmen, good evening. I would like to begin by saying that the philosophy that permeates the concept of the circular economy is making progress in virtually all areas and in all the public policies with which it is related, and one of them is that of today's debate, which is the use of water from the effluents of the EDARs, the scrubbers, in our country, mainly for agricultural irrigation and irrigation of public parks, which is what more than 80% of this water is devoted to at European level. The key to these policies, as I mentioned earlier, is these EDARs, these purification stations that we have in Euskadi. And I would like to comment that the use of water in them is not only for the outside world, it is not only to supply water to the outside world, but can be given in two more cases and given in two more cases. One of them is that the waters that are purified are reused in the same process within the depurator, and the second is that the sludge resulting from the decantation that is produced is used to produce energy, for example, that makes the depurator of Galindo de Sestao work, that is self-sufficient energetically and that is the largest of Euskadi. Taking into account the guidelines that come to us from Europe, the competent institutions, in coordination with the Government, already have plans to deepen the reuse of water, as we have made clear in the transactional and in our initial amendment, placing these policies in the Basque context. And I'm going to put them in Basque context because I may have understood it more previously in a Spanish context, which is partly different from ours. The ultimate goal will not be for all clean waters to be used for irrigation, for three issues that everyone will understand. First of all, the water balance of our country is neither comparable to other latitudes; it is not comparable for example with Murcia, Valencia, Andalusia, because we have a climate, for good or for bad, rainy, and the use we make of this resource is relatively moderate. Mr Becerra, we are online from the European Union: about 125 litres per citizen, and the use made by industries (after which I will detail a little more) is also responsible. Unless the climate changes, and it is possible that it will change in the coming years (so it is a door that is not closed), for the moment the water resources we have at Euskadi level are sufficient. Thirdly, I would like to stress that ensuring that all clean water reaches the optimum conditions for its reuse (i.e. sedimentation, filtration, etc.) is very expensive, and environmentally a disaster, taking into account the mechanical methods and chemical treatments they need. I am glad that this debate does not have the dichotomy that reuse is ecological and is good and not reuse is ecologically reprehensible, because precisely reuse of water, when there are sufficient water resources, is precisely very ecological. I am therefore glad that in this case both Mr Becerra and to a lesser extent Mrs López de Ocariz have drawn a quite correct scenario. The reuse of water must therefore be considered on a case-by-case basis, as requested in the transactional and as established by the Government in its existing plans. Therefore, having read a little distance from some erroneous axioms, and the law which is now in the day, this Decretuated 1620 King, I mean, that we must continue in this sphere as a society to carry forward some important part of the budget, knowing that our conditions are known in the region of the country, and knowing also that our users are obliged to pay a percentage of it. This has to be in account too. So I think we must start from a principle of realism, and in this discussion I have at least seen this principle for the moment. And by examining the technical details of the case, knowing what the jurisdictions of each organization are, we can proceed. For I sometimes have a certain impression on the Estina and the text that we have this impression, that we diminish the intervention of the municipalities. And I want to remember that the whole cycle of water (both provision, and sanitation) is at the disposal of municipal cities, and that the work of URA is to offer a general direction of the beautiful waters, a work of co-ordination, and also of taking care of the quality of water. I have already told you, I have already commented to Mrs López de Ocariz that perhaps the scenario she has drawn for me is more valid for southern Spain, where water resources are not as abundant as here. I agree with Mr Becerra on the stage you have drawn. I do not agree so much with the approach of the second part, in terms of efficiency. I have already told you that we are in the European Union's average consumption, and we have examples of success in terms of water use efficiency, such as Smurfit, Petronor, also the Crispijana depurator, has been mentioned, which serves as a irrigation for much of Álava... And I personally on Sunday devoted myself a little bit to seeing for myself what was the level of efficiency and what was the use made of existing water saving and efficiency policies, and I invite you to do a simple exercise. I only hear two golf courses in Euskadi, Artxanda and Zarautz (it sounds to me to see them from outside, not to be inside), and I googled them. I put "Artxanda water", and the first entry was that of the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, which spoke of the measures to be taken by the golf course mentioned, and I will read them literally, because more demanding and more efficient cannot be: "Measures related to water consumption and management. In accordance with the documentation submitted by the promoter in the environmental impact assessment procedure, and without prejudice to what is established by the competent body with regard to waters, the irrigation water of the golf course shall come from the exploitation of groundwater, sewage and drainage from the golf course and from the sewage treatment systems provided for in the facilities. Any other source of irrigation water shall have prior approval by the Deputy Environmental Adviser." And this happens in a country that has enough water resources, which we have to take advantage of, deepen in efficiency, as Mrs Red mentioned. And, on the other hand, I believe that everyone – or most of us – will find ourselves in a transactional text that has the face of rationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Otero, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u102	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I am only half a pint of blood less than when I came in the morning, so I shall not be so hot in this afternoon, though I confess, in fact, that our position will not be particularly critical, but we will go to abservation, because, after all, all of you who have spoken before me, perhaps, I think you have settled it well, and we have nothing too new to say. But in any case, it seems to us that the half-way that has been written here... , it is in two points, and at the first it is not very clear to us; and in the second, I would say, there is a remarkable imperfection, which I will now explain, that seems to me to be of no use to much advantage in looking at them in general. I mean, this middle-class amendment is declamation, but there's no time to admit it, no money can be put on the table to make plans or to carry forward enterprises, right? And, well, it is true that as far as our team is in the supply of the circular economy of Europe, and we push this package as a whole, it is clear that a work in the middle of the water, which goes beyond what it is doing, is to be done clearly. And the report from European Union is more and more obvious, those who say that the hydratic stress in Europe is very high, now 30% of the rocks suffer from a hydric stress at some point of the year, and the situation is not getting better, but it's getting worse and it's predicting that 50% of the roses will have problems for 2030 years to be as much as necessary or as needed for water all year long. As Mr. Farrea says, the Basque Country can't be considered today as a area with too much hydric links, but it's true that we're going to have to get ready for the future. But we think that, as this proposition speaks about the ruins of the town, we ought to make a hierarchy here, and that we ought to place our physica or priorities in another place. And in this sense, we agreed that in the last week, in order to improve the state of water in order to improve the state of water, this suggestion, which, in any case, has come to us today, as a subsection, or might have been included in this integral plan. Because it's happening to us that we have, a little bit, one of the main problems, that we're mixing the same hierarchy of water, isn't it? Pixka battera joango naiz hai azaltzeko. Iruditzen zait hor testu klabe bat badagoela, and I am talking about a communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council in 2007, in which he talked about addressing the challenge of water scarcity and drought in the European Union, and he was talking about that in regions where all prevention measures have been implemented according to the water hierarchy (water saving, pricing policy, alternative solutions, efficiency) and taking due account of the cost-benefit dimension, and where demand still exceeds water availability, in some circumstances new infrastructures are identified as a possible way to mitigate drought impacts, and alternative options, such as desalination or reuse of wastewater, are increasingly seen as potential solutions across Europe. Hori esaten zen eta gera 2015. urtean, economia zirkularran paketea onartzen denean, uraren berrerrebilpena hartzen da eginkizunetako bat bezala. But we have another problem that mixes with this problem, and it is much more than that we do not observe the rules which have been written before about the ruins. And the right of the ruins of the city, which was established in 1994, we do not now fill it, because there it was said 2000. that the network for the treatment of all the wasteless cities in Europe must be completed for the year, which has not yet been completed. 2000. In the year of the year, the law of the water's camp said that the ecological state of the river was to be good at the time of 2015, and this is not yet accomplished, and in the year 2017 we are, and Europe has opened the legal procedures of punishment to the State of Spain, because all this is not fulfilled. And in the end it's just a matter of forever, when we put prioritys we need to be careful where the public resources lead. In this sense, when the alternatives are referred to, it seemed to us that when Podemos intended to include, or to write, the contribution of Podemos, the rain, and so on, there is a priority about it before it is turned aside by public money? And here, I think, the Populians will agree, whether they are allowed there or made promises (e.g., the southern rivers of Gasthes do not mix with the ruins), and there URA took the engagement that Marot was the mayor, and that all this was left uncuted, and that, for example, might have been a pretty chance of reviving water or using better water. So that's where we see a problem. Well, he can test it, and he'll prove everything he comes here today, but I think we have other things more urgent or less urgent. And at first I said it wasn't very clear for me to give birth correction, because here it is said "Se impulsen y desarrolles existites" ("p" in capitals." I think that, to begin with, there is no such thing as such plans in capitals. Gero, ez dut ulertzen "according to the proposal of the European Union for the safe and efficient reuse of water", ez dakit zehazki zeri buruz hitz egiten ari garen. Then it is also said, "Laules medicas incentivados a Los usuaries." Considering that the Euscadian Act of 2006 leaves most of the water-waters that come to power, so I don't know what it will be for the use of those who don't pay, or what we're talking about. That's why I'm saying that we didn't think the text was right. And then, at the second point, it seems to me that there is a remarkable fault, because it seems to me important to see what Europe is doing today and what it is going to do for a while, and in the second it is said, "para el studio de la viabilidad es mejoras necemaris de adtacion adapcias la Normivape la material." And in Europe, when the package of the circular economy was admitted in the year 2015, there have been so many employments and inquiries since that time; And besides, it's very curious, because the Spanish State usually pursues the laws derived from Europe, but in this case the European Union has admitted that the Deucreta King in the Spanish State is in the right place. The last report is that the Spanish law is more advanced in Europe than the legislation which comes from the European Union, than the regulating frame, and therefore I do not know what we are exactly looking at Europe in this case. I mean, in Spain, there's a terrible hydricum in Spain, and it's a long time ago, so it's because of a necessity that there was an operation and a socialist government did it. The royal decree was accepted and that is regulated by Europe, who says that it is well regulated and the first measure to be taken around the watering of the circular economy package will be in the year 2018, and it will be to see if they succeed in placing this regulator of frames. Baina beraiek esaten dute Espanian errege-dekretu honek –well, ingelesez dago, far mess – "sets up more stringent conditions in the current irrigation of agriculture, which are more demanding than what is considered in the European Union". So I think this is how your second middle-class point changes a lot of sense, doesn't it? Well, to finish, and in half a minute, it seems to us that in order to establish our position, one priority is more important to develop the entire system of the wasteless city, it is clear. We believe that the plan of the previous week was much better in this sense, and that we ought to include it, that the medium will have no effect on it, and that, well, we ought to produce a little more influence on the things prescribed by the hierarchy of water. And here, in the case of debris, we do not care to leave general debris in the hierarchy of debris without having fully developed the things that lie in the upper part of the pyramid, and then we ultimately give money to the solutions on the lower side. And let's be careful that it doesn't happen the same here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u103	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing on to the answers' turn, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Well, thank you, Mrs Red, for the support and collaboration to reach this compromise amendment. I also have to warn Mr Arruabarrena: I believe that the Sierra de Grazalema is the area of Spain where it rains the most, and that is in Cadiz, and I believe that, according to the OCU, from what I have read, the city that has the best water quality is Burgos, and both are in Spain. I know you've shown prejudice here, because I said "Spain." Don't worry, no. It was only by contextualizing, that we are in an autonomous community that is part of Spain and part of Europe, and good, nothing more. But thank you for working on the compromise amendment. Mr Becerra, I understand you perfectly when you talk to me about the rains, and we are all aware that it is a requirement to renew the water supply and sanitation networks and the rains, and that has been going on for many years now that has to be applied as a rule. The rains go directly to the river flows, and what they do is maintain the river flow. They don't go to the depurator, so we don't load the depurator with rainwater. As you said, we are not in a high water stress zone, so at least it seems to our group that it is interesting that we focus our attention on waste water, because, in fact, both have a cost, treat them and adapt them for those uses that we will then give them. In addition, the wastewater goes to a sewage treatment plant, with which we have all the amount in one place; the rainwaters depend on how the net falls. Therefore, it would be necessary to make a network to collect the rains in order to be able to carry them there, and we would remove a volume of water from the channels, which is important. I do not tell you that it is not interesting, but it seems to us the same at this time, and that is what we thought when we developed this issue, which is much more interesting or more urgent, so to speak, to focus on waste water. Let's see, as I told you before, the treatment of purified waters is ancient, and the most demanding decree is of 1986, according to the law of health of the moment. Therefore, they have their cost, and indeed, as I said, that is the spirit that has led us to separate the two concepts. But I understand that in areas of high water stress it is indeed a water to be taken into account to reuse it, without any doubt. Mr. Otero, you were talking to me about deadlines and plans. The plans are the hydrological plans. Water reuse measures are in the second plans, which range from 2015 to 2021. Before we had the one that went until 2015, and then it will come 2021-2027. These measures are here. It is true that with these texts it will happen – at least it happens to me – that they have five hundred leaves, and the measurements are, therefore (depends on basins, rivers and so on), scattered. With this our idea was to fix that in an agile document, which we could handle with some looseness, and also plan priorities. In some ways, the plans have more or less marked priorities, and the government on this issue has said that, in fact, we support... Because for that they are collected in the plans, in the spirit of executing them. What about the deadline? 2021. But we understand that as soon as we begin to do... Because today we are in 2017, and little has been implemented of those measures, or nothing, and, therefore, it seems to us that we are coming to a time when it is urgent to do this. What we were asking for was time planning. Let's see if we're capable. But, well, that did not seem to the government to be a priority. And then it is the owners of the systems, in coordination with the institutions, who must push these measures, he said before. Because I had a chance to talk to someone from the Rioja Alavesa Consortium. And he said, "Actually, we have to anticipate situations of water stress that are taking place in some cases. Supply difficulties exist in some areas. Therefore, if I remove from the supply certain uses, such as irrigation or watering gardens, or gardens, or certain activities, then I have more drinking water for the daily use of the population." And like that so many other things. And being able to water, too. But it's not just watering, it's not just watering. I am very interested and have always defended the agricultural sector, but there are many uses that are essential. I mean, it's not just the irrigation. Irrigation is an economic activity, which contributes a great deal to agrarian activity, but there are also other uses that are necessary and there are also industries that are essential and use quite a lot of water. Therefore, in all that is what we have to think about, and that is what has encouraged us to present the initiative. I thank both of you for having this positive attitude towards the initiative, because I believe that we are all in the same line. It is true that sometimes we like much more concrete and much more accurate texts, and I also want and want to see a game in 2018 for this, and to communicate and promote the rational use of water. And indeed we are, and we will try to do something about it, at least with the amendments. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u105	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u106	Well, very briefly I want to say that I greatly liked Mr Arruabarrena's statement that the reuse of water is not always the most ecological. And it is true, sometimes it can be more expensive, even energetically, than not reuse it. But it is true that it is an interesting option, and I have recognized Mrs López de Ocariz. The most ecological thing with the water that goes through a scrubber is to throw it into the channel from which we had taken it before, but if we need it, if we need it. What I have tried to raise in my speech is that perhaps we do not need that water. And, well, Mrs. Red has been on the verge of getting Mr. Uria a shot, because she didn't miss anything to say that before we had done more, and it's true. And my surgery wasn't going to hurt him, or anything like that. If I already know that you were debating the canon of water, I already know how difficult it was to approve the canon of water, of course! And what I do think I should be right about is... You said, "Water is a finite resource." Right, and we have to assume that it is a finite resource, but also that it is a valuable resource and that it has a price, that it has a price. And right now, for example, water tariffs do not reflect the overall costs, and the water fee does not apply to all sectors. Therefore, not all sectors are assuming that this water has a price and value. You say, "There's a community of regants that's using Crispijana's water." Well, I'm not an expert, but, considering that Lindane has been found in the effluent of Crispijana's EDAR, I don't think it's the most suitable use now, to use it for crop irrigation. I'll leave it there. Perhaps then I will begin to understand the second point, as Mr Otero said, the need to study the technical and economic feasibility and the necessary improvements to adapt to the requirements of European legislation in this area. If they're already using Crispijana water, they're all going to have to go to improve the debugging system! I get it. And perhaps in that – I am going to answer Mrs López de Ocariz in the last question – the viability of the reuse of waste water, perhaps we would also have to look at it from an economic point of view. That is why I understood that the rainwaters had an interest, especially in the Cantabrian side, Mrs López de Ocariz, because precisely, as you said very well, a part of the Cantabrian side is subjecting the Zadorra system to greater pressure, because half of the Basque population is supplying itself with the Zadorra system. What I wanted to say to you is that if we improve the re-use of rainwater on the cantabrian side, possibly indirectly the Zadorra system would have much less pressure, and certain uses in the Zadorra basin could be viable without resorting to waste water that, as I said at the beginning, does not meet the quality parameters they need right now in general. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u107	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u108	Very briefly. He doesn't seem to want to pay for the blow, I don't know if I'm going to have to pay for it. Because I really wasn't going to tell you that, but it's true that you in the first speech came to say that this was something new that was not done, and the only thing I wanted to say (if not, you'll see when you make the transcript of today's plenary), what I came to say is that this was actually being done, although I was the first to recognize that it can probably be improved in the actions that the government is doing. Of course, water is a finite and valuable resource, and I hope that it will be much more valued by all citizens in its value. And you're talking to me about fees, tariffs, but you know that it's not up to the Basque Government. You know that it is the municipalities or the municipalities that mark the price of water; that it is true that in this Autonomous Community it is cheaper than in others, it is true, but once again we are asking the government to almost recognize something that does not belong to it, and I say again how jealous the municipalities are in the development of their own competences. Then Mr Otero was talking about the fact that he seemed to be an insufficient amendment, or that he felt a bit of a trap. He didn't like it very much. Well, he wanted to be more benevolent than I understood. Well, I'll tell you what, when you talk about "What plans do you mean, Capital plans?", so, as Mrs López de Ocariz has told you, the plans are the hydrological plans. Because we will all acknowledge that, although we are in the Basque Autonomous Community and are talking about the Basque Government's water policy, we will recognize that water does not end where our borders end. Therefore, water policy is much more than the Basque Government can say, with the Basque Water Agency at its head. Hydrological plans are those that are already made, and that is why I said in my first intervention that no new plans must be made, but that the tools that mark the existing plans must be developed and implemented. And then there was something I don't know if I understood correctly. It seemed to me that you, on the one hand, were putting on the table the importance of European legislation, European directives and everything that emanates from Europe, which seems to us to be challenging or to be imposing obligations on us many times, which it seems we will never achieve, but at the same time you have said that Europe on this issue, or on a specific issue, is much less demanding than State policy. So what are we left with? Do we have to get to the policy that Europe tells us? do we have to get ahead of ourselves? Let's go ahead, shall we go behind? Or what are we doing? What I think is that we have a regulation that we have put in place, and we must try to ensure that the regulation is complied with in time and in time, as the rules dictate, but I think it is fair to acknowledge that there are things being done. And you said that they had no deadlines, that there were no deadlines. The deadlines are in the hydrological plans. It's all there! That is why we had a wink at Mr Becerra when we raised the issue of feasibility. That feasibility report, which he put forward in his amendment, was the reason why he entered into the compromise amendment, in order to understand that what he did put forward was an important point, and that from there the content of the original initiative put forward by Mrs López de Ocariz could be improved. But, indeed, the issue of water is an issue that could give rise to much debate, and we will probably continue to debate it. The reuse of water is already being done, and, as I said, there are probably many things to improve, which I believe the Basque Government intends to do. But, of course, always bearing in mind that the municipalities in this have much to say, since in the end they not only mark the fees, but the issue of supply is their responsibility. And some, in fact, would have to put more batteries on. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u109	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u110	Yeah, I'll keep it short. First, answer... Mr. Othello has made a couple of remarks (for there is no time, in our middle course) and it is true, because this is not ours. In my first instance, I have said that we often believe that everything is our jurisdiction, but in this case the councils and the Aldudians have a great share, and therefore we do not mention any money, nor mention a term, because what is in our hand is not in the right way, and this Chamber does not control it. Secondly, it has been remarked that Spain has done domestic works, because the hydratic stress has been greater, and you are right. In Canaries, for instance, 20% is recycled. Some things are done well in Spain, I agree. But it comes from Europe, and therefore to refer to it, I think it is necessary. Mrs López de Ocariz, who I have prejudice against Spain. None. I've just been in Madrid this weekend, I've had it. I've done tourist terrorism, I mean, I went downtown, I ate, I drank, I didn't know the reality of Vallecas... I mean, I've been irresponsible and I've had a great time, but I don't prejudice any of it. I like Spain very much, as I like Italy, France, etc., without entering the political plane, where there we could discuss other things. And nothing else. I thank Mr Becerra for mentioning my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. EH Collect Group... Aren't you going to say a word? [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-class correction that the Eunciists have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 0; white, 0, 0; abstain, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u112	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. The same point in the subject list... (Retrusively.) Yes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u113	In this parliament, because we just heard that Judge Lamela has sent several members of the government into prison, exactly Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, Merchell Borras, Raul Romeva, Jose Rul...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u114	Yes, Mrs. Irriart, we know. It's the thing, what's the occasion? To reach anything?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u115	Well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u116	Getting teams into something?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u117	Teams get to something. I believe that the Board of Boxarets ought to assemble, and that this Parliament ought to make some kind of an expression in front of the gravity of this event. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u118	Good. My proposition or... I don't know if we should meet at the table, in his case, but I think if something is to be shut up, a statement, an expression... We all know what you are, the spokesman can do the job. In the meantime, let's go on with the plune, won't we? And if there's anything to read, we have the chance to finish the plune. Meanwhile...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u119	I understand what you're saying. In any case, I think it's very serious what's going on...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u120	Very serious. I agree. But that doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u121	Very serious. That it is indeed a direct influence, because it may also occur in this Parliament, and that we ought to have an urgent position in the presence of this necessary situation. When the President is not at this moment, Mr. Erkoa has just come, you are the head of this legislature, and I think you ought to encourage us all to give our opinion in front of this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u122	Yeah. The thing is, I know it's serious, but to break up a plune, I must also know the opinion of the other spokesman. No, no, no, no, we have a voice, we can talk there. Then we know the position of the EH Collectors, and from the little one, what the spokesmen have in their plans, whether they want to be assembled or not, we will decide on it. My proposal is to follow and assemble.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u123	In any event, the People's Parliamentary Group, without making any political assessment, wishes to recall that on numerous occasions the drafting and, where appropriate, the presentation of such initiatives has also been managed and negotiated without the need to suspend the plenary session. It seems to us to be an extremely serious measure to suspend the plenary session. We believe that if there is any group that wants to push for an institutional agreement, it will do so. We are not in favour of suspending the plenary, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u124	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u125	That we are not in favour of suspending the plenary, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u126	All right, all right, all right. The Social Party spokesman... Lander, together with the spokesman of the Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u127	sir: Well, it's obvious that it's serious, and we're in a position to be alarmed. We don't think it's necessary to stop the plune, but it's necessary... Or if we can come to an agreement between the spokesmans, as we have done more than once, let us gather while the plene goes on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u128	Eubertarians spokesman of the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u129	Okay. To acknowledge the gravity of the subject, I think we are not new and known in this legislature, that we know before similar events, which we may have a minimum common opinion. Hence the plune may be continued; and, in the case of those who think alike or alike, we should have occasion to speak of a political expression, which may be shared, not of an organization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u130	That's... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u131	We're asking for a break because we really think it's very serious. If it doesn't do that, the Basque Country Group will leave the Chamber, and we'll remember what we can remember later. Thank you. [[The members of Parliament for Parliamentary EH gathered in the Chamber have left.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u132	All right. When the speakers of the party hear it, the plune continues, and he who seeks to gather will be gathered together. First point in theme list: "The bill of law, which admits of 2017 Esquimia Esquimia Ere." Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn, Mr. Erkoke has the word to introduce the bill."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good evenings, so far as the afternoon may be accepted. I am here this afternoon to present the bill of law which is to change the law which supports the 2017 Prest of Euscal Autonomy in Erria. For this is the bill of law which has a definite and clear purpose, which I am about to present to you, the fourth quarter of the exclusive salary of the European public sector in Basque Autonomy, 2012. As is well known, among many other measures aimed at containing public expenditure and ensuring compliance with the objectives of budgetary stability, Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July 2012 provided in its article 2 the suspension of the extraordinary pay corresponding to the month of December 2012 of the public employees of all the public administrations of the State. It was a basic rule issued under the jurisdiction of the courts – thus invoked in the corresponding provisions of the Royal Decree-Law – under 149.1.13 and Article 156 of the Constitution. As an anecdote (because everything was finally left in that, in pure anecdote), it can be said that this precept stated in its fourth paragraph that the amounts resulting from the abolition of this extra payment would be used in future years to make contributions to pension plans or to collective insurance contracts that included, among other things, the retirement contingency, always – and this was insisted on the precept I have just quoted – according to what could be provided in each case by the budget laws. Well, I have followed with interest the evolution of this precept, because when it was approved by the government and immediately afterwards it was submitted to validation I was in Congress, and I personally participated in the session that took place on 19 July 2012 to complete the validation procedure provided for in the second paragraph of article 86 of the Constitution, and I do not think I exaggerate if I say that this is a norm that was enormously contested, both from the political and from the social point of view and of course from the trade union. And I dare also to say that it was a rule, if I may say so, that it was multi-amputed or multi-recurred, because it was the subject of no less than four unconstitutional appeals and more than thirty questions of unconstitutionality, raised by so many other judicial bodies throughout the geography of the State. The remedies of unconstitutionality were lodged at that time by probably the only organs, from among the legitimate ones to bring an appeal of unconstitutionality, which were not controlled by the government party, by the People's Party. It was the Basque Government, it was the Junta de Andalucia, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Parliament of Navarre (not the Government, but the Parliament of Navarre). And the thirty questions of unconstitutionality, I insist, were raised, therefore, by so many other judicial bodies of the most diverse location on the territorial plant of the State. The remedies of unconstitutionality mainly raised competition issues. The constitutional issues, for their part, raised virtually all of them the possible violation by the rule of articles 9.3 and 33.3 of the Constitution, which are respectively those which prohibit the retroactivity of the rules limiting individual rights and the expropriation without procedure and without fair price. Just as the remedies of unconstitutionality at that time had the viability that could be expected with that Constitutional Court, and in relation to a matter such as the one I have just mentioned, which was so important to the Government, however, the issues of unconstitutionality were indeed likely to prosper. It was foreseeable or there were substantial grounds for suspecting that they could prosper, because they had a solid legal basis and were, I insist, many judicial bodies that had found the possible violation of the precepts I mentioned earlier. And indeed, the unconstitutionality appeals were all dismissed, through judgements handed down between April 2015 and June 2016. Only one particular vote was saved, which declared, in fact, that one of the precepts of the royal decree-law was unconstitutional, but, moreover, the remedies were all rejected. And the issues remained unresolved, not because the Constitutional Court did not rule on them, but because it handed down judgement in all but without entering into the substance of the case. In other words, the argument that the object of the question of constitutionality had arisen had been accepted. This was noted in a first judgement that was handed down on the question of constitutionality raised by the Chamber of Social Affairs of the National High Court (judgment 83/2015 of 30 April), and then in thirty other rulings between May 2015 and March 2016, with exactly the same argument. And one might ask: Well, how is it possible for the Constitutional Court here to assess the disappearance of the subject matter? Well, it is possible because the central government, obviously well connected with the Constitutional Court and better informed about its purposes (it had not in vain directly or indirectly appointed the majority of its judges), wanted to anticipate what was expected to be a stream of unfavourable sentences to the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012. And, in order to avoid that image of mockery, the Law on General State Budgets for 2015 included an additional 16th provision in which it included a first, still limited, still partial, forecast on the possibility of recovering the abolished extraordinary pay in December 2012. And that particular provision was welcomed by the Constitutional Court to declare the loss of the object in the, I insist, more than thirty questions of unconstitutionality raised. Then, the proximity of the 2015 general elections did everything else. The legislature was running out, and on that date the central Government had to report to the management society carried out in the use of its absolute majority, and turned extreme rigour into extreme generosity, in order to attract, among other things, the vote of public employees. And in that spirit he immediately adopted, in a surprising way, the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015, of 11 September, and the Law on General Budgets of the State for 2016 – which was approved, I recall, on 29 October, on the eve of the election campaign – whose additional twelfth provision definitively raised for the year 2016, for the financial year 2016, the partial prohibition that still continued to weigh on the extraordinary pay of 2012. Since the prohibition had been basic, it had been of a basic nature, its lifting was also of a basic nature, although at that time the central Government clearly stated that the lifting of the prohibition was subordinated to the economic or financial situation of each public administration. In that way, it was just a matter of two reference to the problem of a 2012-year-old pay-old. one, the severity required by the management of public affairs, and two, to do the least injury to public workmen. In this case, the situation created by these provisions, which I have just quoted from the Spanish Government, has been managed by the Basque Government from the very beginning of trying to reconcile the strictness in the management of public accounts with the will to minimize the damage to public employees. In other words, do not avoid the damage that was already caused by the abolition of the extra payment, but do minimize the negative impact, the damage of this measure on their personal and family savings. When I took office as a Public Administration and Justice Advisor in December 2012, the suspension of the 2012 extra pay for public employees in the Euskadi autonomous public sector had already taken effect. The express mandate of the Constitutional Court had therefore already been implemented by article 2 of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012. My first action before this House as a counselor, therefore, was precisely to introduce in the same month of December the bill that established the advance of the extra payments to be made effective throughout the financial year 2013: from June to January, and from December to July. The aim was to alleviate the negative impact that the abolition of extra pay had on the personal and family economy of public employees, avoiding the occurrence of a gap, which would lead to a gap in the regularity of their economic perceptions, which were partly monthly in nature, but also semi-annual in nature, in the part corresponding to extraordinary payments. In April 2013, it was up to me to refer to the Governing Council the proposal for an agreement that raised the application for unconstitutionality against the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 to which I referred earlier. And, as soon as the proximity of the 2015 general elections led the central government to authorize, first in part and then, as I have already pointed out more fully, the recovery of the December 2012 overtime, the Basque Government planned the payments, so that the public employees could recover as soon as possible the amount owed to them, but without this resulting in a breakdown of the financial and economic situation of the Basque Government. It should be remembered in this respect that an extraordinary payment in the autonomous public sector of Euskadi amounts to EUR 200 million. The impact of EUR 200 million in a single budget year was a particularly significant impact, and of course unabated at the time by the public coffers. The aim was, therefore, to accompany, in some way, the actual payments made to the possibilities of the economic and financial situation in the Government's finances. On this basis, the Basque Government at that time undertook, first, to effect the recovery in four instalments of four quarters of the extraordinary pay. Four payments to be made in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. And, if economic and financial conditions permitted, the Government was also committed to advancing the payment schedule thus committed. And that's exactly what we do with this bill. The payment of the first three quarters has been made on a regular basis in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017; so it has been provided in the corresponding budget law and so we have been implementing the corresponding part in each financial year. But, as the financial-economic situation currently allows us to advance the payment for 2018, what we do is to advance it a few months, according to the commitment made at the time. Thus, it has been sought throughout this process that the impact on the personal and family savings of public employees be the least. There has been no gap in the regular perception of income by public employees; at the time when it is appropriate to receive the extra pay, they have received, they have been receiving an extra pay, and at the same time we have managed to make the budgetary impact bearable by the government's finances. With this, with this measure, with the proposal in this bill that I have just introduced, we have definitively settled the issue of the December 2012 extraordinary pay, and we have now opened the possibility that, from 2018 onwards, extraordinary pay will once again become effective in accordance with the general law of the public service, that is, in June and December. These are the objectives of the law, these are its contents, which respond to a specific situation that has become effective during this temporary period, between 2012 and 2017. And the adoption of the law, if it finally has the approval of the House, will allow, I insist, to definitively close the question of the extraordinary pay of the year 2012, and at the same time allow to return to the ordinary dynamics provided in the law of public service to make effective the extraordinary pay of the public employees, so that they will be satisfied in the months of June and December, as already provided for in the preliminary draft law of general budgets of the Autonomous Community for the year 2018. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u134	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Passing the teams' turn is a side shift and a counter turn. Someone on the side shift wants to participate... ? Someone on the side shift. On the contrary... ? Ezta was. Orduan, explanation of vote? Yes... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u135	I wanted to speak at some point, although I do not vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u136	Is it abstention?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u137	Sure!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u138	Explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u139	Explanation of vote does not seem to me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u140	There's no more!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u141	Then I'll use the turn against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u142	Against? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I have also followed with interest the intervention of the advisor and the evolution of the article he had quoted since 2012, and we are obviously in favour of the end of the 2012 extra payment to the officials of the Basque Government, as we have already done in the Basque institutions that we ruled (Vitoria City Council, Álava City Council, other municipalities...). Because the Basque Government is the last public administration to return the extra. And you now bring us a reform of the budget law, because you in this budget law were just paying the quartet. But his decision, not of the Government of Spain or of any other government. I don't know if you... Because I hear a phrase every week when I come into Parliament that says, "Itzarri, unfunded money, stolen salary." And, of course, many years ago the State Budgets Act allowed public administrations to make contributions. You didn't do it because you didn't want to. You haven't returned the extra because your priorities were other, because you spent the extra money on other things. And so now you come here, and you have given us a speech for twenty minutes of state legislation, when we are here for your responsibility, pure and hard. And I have to remind you of one thing. Look, 11 October of this year, Basque Finance Council, fourth agreement, forecast of agreed taxes for the closure of 2017: 14,367,701,563 euros (up to 563 euros) is the amount that comes. The previous forecast, 13,498,000. Difference, 869; 70% of the Basque Government... 600. Six hundred million, more or less, is what you agreed on 11 October, at the Basque Finance Council, that the Basque Government will have extra revenue this year. And you bring us the authorization to pay the extra that is missing, the quartet that you lacked to pay, without a number, zero numbers. And now I'm going to read you the reports of your officials affected by the extra pay. Report of the Legal Counsel: "It has not included the economic memory required by the aforementioned Law 8/2003. Although the preliminary draft is intended to amend the text of the law which approved the Community budgets for 2017, this amendment is financially based on a change in the statement of revenue and expenditure contained in the above-mentioned budgets, by which the limit of both budgets is increased". Hey, in this bill you brought us, how much does the revenue and expenditure limit increase? Zero. It doesn't bring a single amount. How much does it increase? They're telling you, their officials are asking you. Of course, they say, "other than that section 57.2 of the Government Act requires a financing annex"... Of course, but in the funding annex you have to explain things and you have to explain the money. And then he has another report (because he sees it as a short law, two articles, four pages, and three reports), economic control report: "From the resulting tenor it can be concluded that the requested amendment actually has a direct economic impact that entails the need to know the credits with which it will be possible to materialize and concreteize the variables of calculation". This is said by officials, who would also like to know how it has been calculated. And they say, "... First of all, there is the need to know the economic dimension of the measure, that is, the expenditure involved in dealing with the same 2017 financial year. We must refer, as the only support contained in the dossier, to the supporting memorandum, which indicates a maximum amount of EUR 49 million." And they say, "We have to understand that this figure is the result of a calculation made on the basis of figures provided by the Civil Service Directorate." They point to the suitability of having incorporated the parameters, to conclude that it is very complex to know the others how much it has been. And in the end they tell him that it would have been opportune "to highlight the global figures existing at the moment". Look, they brought us... It's just that it's funny for you to come here and try to sell us that this Basque government is going to do us a favor to the officials, we're going to amend the Budgets Act... Hey, it's the last administration in Spain! I do not know if there is any council left in Bizkaia, ruled by you of course, that still does not return the extra to the officials. And we come here to talk about "the government of Spain has changed...". For two years now, they've been charging all the officials out there for the extra! And here we are at the end of 2017. And I'm going to accept that it's going to be 49 million, because you say in memory. How much do the Basque Government's budgets for this year amount to when this bill is passed today? How much? Because they don't tell us in the law that modifies budgets! How many are the revenues you have? How many are the expenses? You don't know. Hey, and of the 600 million you agreed to... Because this was agreed on 11 October at the Basque Finance Council, and the Governing Council that brings this to us is on 17 October. They already knew the agreement of the Basque Finance Council. And of the other EUR 550 million, does this Parliament have something to say? does it have something to say? What are they going to spend on? You, this money that we are going to dispose of all Basques and that you, in a boast of fantastic concealment, bring us a bill to tell us "how good I am, that I give back to the officials the extra one that I have refused to return to you for two years", and above it talks about that the central government up, the central government down... Hey, if you could have returned it! And the contributions to the civil servants' funds... Man, I also have memory and I have followed the article! I remember when we convinced Mr Montoro to withdraw that ban. Were you in Congress? Because I also remember some PNV Members saying "This is not how it is done"! Were you, or were you at the Congress of Deputies? Because it's very easy to say "I want to pay you but I'm not left with the Government of Spain", and when that excuse is not and still is unpaid, it tells us here the milk story, since 2012, 2013, 2014, forty laws..., but it hasn't yet explained why they didn't return the extra two years ago. Worse still, he has not explained to us what they are going to do with the more than EUR 500 million that this government is going to have to spend by 31 December, and of course for which our group demands to know what they are going to spend on. In any case, Madam President, I will change my vote, and I will abstain for the good of the officials. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u144	Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 54; supporters, 46; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u145	So it's been approved that the law which the General Prev. We'll go next to the vote, so we'll go to the Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u146	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for facilitating the change in the agenda. Thank you so much. And, on the subject that brings us here, the Basque Socialists have voted in favour of amending the Basque Budgets Act for this 2017 financial year so that the public sector staff of this autonomous community could recover all the amounts actually lost as a result of the abolition of that payment for the month of December 2012, due to the mandatory application of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July, of measures to ensure budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness. And first of all we voted in favour because the Basque Socialists, who in April support these budgets for the 2017 financial year, consider it timely and necessary to finally resolve that conflict with the public personnel opened by the Spanish Government, with that royal decree law of measures to guarantee budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness, so that the more than 70,000 public employees, on the November payroll, can be paid the last quarter of the extra pay of the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012, which at that time was withdrawn from them. Secondly, we voted in favour because this procedure gives legal certainty to the decision taken by the Basque Government. The Socialists always consider that the measure proposed by the Rajoy Government did not resolve the situation of the crisis that neither Spain nor Euskadi were suffering, and it also re-reduced that effort in the face of the crisis, in which they had already made an effort in the years 2010 and 2011. And the Constitutional Court, in fact, as the Councillor said before, suspended the procedure for paying the extra payment to the Basque officials, after admitting to the procedure, on 11 December 2012, the conflict of competences raised by the central government, paralysing the extra payment to be received by the Basque officials. And the Constitutional Court maintained in April 2013 the suspension of that extra payment, considering that lifting that measure would have adverse effects on the necessary coherence of the State's economic policy, which required a unitary character. And that decision was taken in a public order in which the court did not go into the substance of the conflict of jurisdiction between the central Government and the Basque Government over this issue, nor did it prosecute the constitutionality of the abolition of the above-mentioned pay. And, as the State legislation laid down in 2015, on a basic basis, that the various public administrations should proceed to the payment of these amounts if their financial-economic situation made it possible or, where appropriate, when such financial-economic situation permitted it, and it is now the case that the agreement reached for the final settlement of the liquid quotas and the financial compensations for the years 2007 to 2016 allows this availability of credit for the amount of 49 million, is why, from the budgetary and political perspective, we agree that this amendment of the Budgets Act, which we approved six months ago, should take effect. The Basque Socialists support the budget laws for both the financial year 2016 and the financial year 2017, in which it had been considered a moderate increase in staff costs in the service of the Basque public sector, also depending on the budgetary availability that could be allocated for that purpose. Although we also prioritized the recovery of the purchasing power of the salaries of such staff, along with the recovery of some of the amounts that had been lost and that had not yet been recovered as a result of the abolition of the extraordinary pay. The revenue obtained now exceeds the figures entered in the statement of revenue for the 2017 financial year, and thus allows the recovery of the total amounts owed as extraordinary pay to be completed. That is why we voted in favour of this budgetary amendment which allows us to resolve the conflict that arose in 2012. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u148	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief physician, good afternoons to all. Well, we've agreed with Podemos on this first subject today, because we think it was necessary to put an end to the rights of officials that never had to happen. If we look back a little and we're in chronology, this didn't start here. We'd only be in 2010 when the Spanish Government ordered all public workers to pay 5%. And as if this measure were not enough, Patxi López went even further, not only to the civil servants, but also to the workers of the civil government who had not the civil society. After half a year's change in the government of Madrid, and in this case Poptular Party went on with the same fine lines in the government: the satisfaction of employments, the satisfactions of wages, and the public services more and more frequent. And the situation in Euskadin wasn't very different, especially because governments played the same game. Heltzen race 2012ko mayatzera era fuentcionioen eskubideak berriro ere urratuak izan ziren... Mariano Rajoy's decision when the decree-law ordering the withdrawal of the December extra payment to the officials of all the public administrations of the State was passed, and from our point of view the Basque Government did not pay the extra payment, because it did not want to, or because it did not try enough. Because, as we know, it had gone away, and it had gone away that it should not have been lost, if not because the two governments played on the same team. Because let's remember that there were legal loopholes to be able to pay the Christmas 2012 extra pay, but that, however, after a lot of losing, the Basque government preferred to make amends to the policies of the People's Party in Madrid. Several lawyers demonstrated that, if there was political will, Basque officials could have received their full salary, because if the public administration did not overcome the deficit, it could not be instructed on how to apportion the salaries of its officials. And it must be remembered, once again, that extra pay is not a gift, but a right that was violated to officials in 2012. The extra Christmas pay is 7% of the salary mass of civil servants, 7% of the salary mass that is consolidated in the Civil Service Act. The government of Mariano Rajoy was then shielded that the removal of the extra pay was the only formula, and yet it has been shown that there was money in other pockets, for example in those of the tax amnesty. But that is not the case right now. But, as always, the People's Party preferred to get its hands on the salaries of public workers. And that is why, while critical, very critical today with the actions of the Basque Government, we vote in favour of the officials of the Basque Autonomous Community recovering that Christmas extra pay of 2012, which, let us not forget, once again, is part of the full salary to which every employee and public employee is entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u149	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, all good afternoons, well, as it may be a good evening. Our parliamentary group has voted in favour of this bill, as it could not otherwise be, since this bill has a very specific and timely object. We are not talking about issues at the general table, where we are talking and we can talk about Itzarri, we are not talking about other budgetary changes... We are talking about a very specific amendment, which leaves only a part of an additional provision of the current Budget Act with no effect, so that the last quarter of the 2012 Christmas extra payment can be paid this year, deleted as a result of the mandate of the Government of the State. With this payment the Basque Government finally resolves a conflict that originated two years ago by the Spanish Government, with its Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, of 13 July, of measures to guarantee budgetary stability and the promotion of competitiveness. This measure by the Government of State was a great surprise, a great impact, since it was adopted unilaterally. And it was also unfair and unnecessary, mainly for public employees, but also for the rest of public administrations, since it was adopted without taking into account their financial-economic situation. And in particular that of the Basque Government, which at that time was willing to have faced that payment (but, well, it was prevented). Nor was any public administration taken into account when lifting the ban, and at that time there was no longer such availability. In this sense, in the line that the Sailburu has expressed, and the view that this parliamentary group fully shares, is that there is a clear trend of public service intervention by the State. It is clear: the capacity for self-organisation of public administrations is limited, and in our specific case our self-government is surrounded. But I'm sure you're in a state of commitment to the working people's rights all the time. The Jeltting Party said that as soon as he got inside, he'd work to reduce the negative effects of the imposed limits from Madrid, and he did. The Basque Government has taken the necessary measures since December 2012 for the financial year 2013, adopting them with legal certainty, since by 2012, as explained by the Sailburu, it was totally limited. And in particular on the same January 1st of the 2013 financial year the public employees of this Administration received an extra pay, and they have done so successively every six months, without losing any extra pay. The impact on the economies of the workers of this public administration has therefore been virtually nil. I am pleased that, by the way, they did not carry out other administrations. And in parallel with these advances, and depending on the financial-economic availability, the Basque Government has been partially paying, per quarter, that 2012 extra payment. Three parts have already been paid, and this bill proposes the payment of the last quarter. It is now precisely with availability and certainty, without risks to budgetary balance, when the Government has proposed payment of this part, when the revenues obtained have been higher than the forecasts, as has also been ratified in the Basque Public Finance Council recently, in October, on the 11th in particular. Then there has always been will, but decisions have to be made from rigour and responsibility. The economic impact of this measure is estimated at a maximum of 49 million, as perfectly stated in the dossier. It is a clear, complete, correct file that has all the documents and reports you have to have (legal, economic, memory...), has all the content you have to have, and all the reports are favorable. It is therefore not right to cast doubt on this dossier. For this reason our legislative body protects this measure, because it is received with ease, severity, and care. The Spanish Government closes the conflict that has been created five years ago by this payment. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Second point on the subject list: "Extradiction of the Equionomy and the Instruction of the Construction of the Construction, of the Industrial Sustament and Transformation, made on the composition of the law of the 10th of June, 1981, which alters the Law. Discipline and final resolution. A member of the board defending the judgment... ? No? So we're going to the group shift from the small to the big one. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio has the word. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u152	All right, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. I had understood, from what I was coming to the torch, that the amendmenters first intervened, but well, that's fine, because there is no greater complication. Well, of the amending groups, one seems to have not considered that he should defend the amendment in plenary, which is EH Bildu, which has been absent, so I guess... But I will, of course, refer to the amendments of other groups, and in this case the only amendment is the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, in relation to the presence of cooperatives, and in this case the social economy, in an important body such as the board of directors of SPRI. We understand that it was a deficit that existed for a long time the fact that cooperatives fundamentally – although we are going to talk about social economy companies, where cooperatives in this country are the flagship – were, in any case, not represented in an area where there was talk about industry, where there was talk about economics, where there was talk about companies, where there was talk, now basically, with the new dimension of SPRI, of internationalization... Well, since social economy companies were not on that board of directors, I say again, that it drives the work and supports the work of Basque companies in all areas. The amending groups referred to the "representative of the social economy" instead of the "representative of Konfekoop", which is the Basque Confederation of Cooperatives. I understand and share what the group's amendments say about the fact that the person, representative or representative who has to go to that council is one of the cooperatives, which in that sense will undoubtedly belong to Konfekoop, who is the one who brings together the vast majority of the great and powerful cooperatives in Euskadi. It is clear that the government must send as a representative of the social economy, to the governing council of SPRI (which I would like to remind you that it was formerly called the Society for Industrial Promotion and Conversion and today it is called the Agency for Competitive Transformation), it must send, without a doubt, someone from Konfekoop. But it is also a legislative technique, we understand, the fact that a law does not name and surname private areas of economic organization in the public appeal that this law makes to its representation in forums, where its presence, of course, is timely, is convenient, is important. In other words, it would not be understood that a law regulating representation issues in the public network would speak of Confebask or Adegi, or of SEA. He will talk about the representation of business organisations or economic operators. Nor is it understood that a law gives names and surnames in trade union representation to ELA or UGT. He will talk about trade union representatives, or the most representative trade union organizations. In addition, it must be said that in this proposal for a law, which will probably be law in a short time, the cooperative theme is already identified in the explanatory statement of the proposed law: "The Basque Parliament" – says the explanatory statement – "estimating in a very positive way the contribution of Basque co-operativeism to the productive and socio-economic fabric of Euskadi" – reflects this as a fundamental element – "invites Basque public institutions to deepen their recognition of the Basque cooperative movement and of the social economy in general, taking the necessary steps to achieve their presence in the bodies and institutions that articulate the social and economic policies of Euskadi". Well, that's what you get with the unique article of this law that will be passed shortly. And it also converts to co-operativeism as a reference of social economic organizations in relation to SPRI. It is quite clear that it will be the representative of the cooperative movement, but it will be the representative of the social economy, so it will also be a bit the representative of that social economy and the interlocutor of the enterprises of social economy, that we remember that, in addition to the cooperative enterprises, there are the societies of labor, there are the enterprises of insertion, there are other types of enterprises (the brotherhoods of fishermen, the mutual societies...), and other types of associations and foundations with economic activity. And it is also – as the explanatory statement also says – reasonable, then, that the Basque Government appoints a representative of the social economy (we strictly link it to cooperatives) on the board of directors of the transformation agency, whose objectives and functions have an additional direct impact – as we have already talked about at other stages, in the consideration of this initiative – a direct impact on the promotion, promotion, internationalization and expansion of the Basque industry. That is, that we are facing a timely reform of a law such as the Law on the Creation of the SPRI and its board of directors, which is thirty-six years old and that now also that society, the SPRI, is in a process of reform with regard to internationalization. We have seen it these days, and the Government has also acted in this direction: SPRI abroad will be the Basque agency for internationalisation from now on. So, what's going on? For the social economy so far was not part of its governing bodies, and cooperatives fundamentally, and their legal forms, primarily cooperatives, are also internationalised, and that is a fundamental element that is going to be enriching this new dimension adopted by SPRI from now on, and it is another reason for them to participate in these areas of decision-making, support, encouragement and impulse to Basque companies. I think it's a small law, it's a short law, it's a short law, it's a single article law, but it's an important law, I think, in the sense that we have spoken many times, and also from the demands of cooperatives themselves: to be present in areas, in agencies, in policy-making bodies that talk about economics, that talk about internationalization, business, industry, and in that sense I think it fits perfectly with needs. It is a step forward, it is also a classic demand for cooperative enterprises and the social economy to be in those bodies and in those areas of decision-making, and of course it fills a deficit. I want to say that we have taken a step forward on this issue. Many others remain in relation to the social economy and its presence in important decision-making areas in this country, but in any case it is one more step. I encourage groups... I appreciate, as a proposing group on its legislative proposal, the fact that we have been able to reach agreement with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group on this text, and I encourage Elkarrekin in this case We can, Mr Becerra, to take the final step and support this initiative. He already knew that he would open the door to more than one representative probably, or at least one, but in any case I think we are taking an important step. And we have also received the place and pleasure of the cooperative movement on this issue. And, of course, also, when it comes to talking to the government, the commitment that it will be people from Konfekoop and the cooperatives who will be on that board of directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u153	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Euskal Sozialistak. Andera corcuera, explanation of vote, right? Together the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u154	Well, of course, Mr. Barrio. Obviously our group from the beginning supported the proposal for a law of your group, because we understood, as you have said, that it was fair for the social economy to become part of one of the areas, of the many areas in which it is not yet. And this was one of them, and it's important enough. Why have we kept our amendment? Because we understood that not just one representative, but two of the social economy should be at least... And here I have to say, and I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes, that our amendment is wrong, and that it says that at least one representative will be included, when it means "at least two representatives of the social economy will be included, of which at least one will be represented by Konfekoop". Why did we understand that SPRI needs to be reformed? Of course, because SPRI is no longer just a society of industrial promotion and conversion, it has now extended its scope to many other fields, such as internationalisation, innovation, etc., which refer not only to industrial enterprises, but to companies of all kinds. And among these companies also those of the social economy. But why do we understand that they have to be at least two representatives? Well, on the one hand, because the weight of the social economy in the Basque economy has been growing, and today 16% of Basque companies are enterprises of the social economy. And also in the world of the social economy there is a twofold reality: on the one hand we have industrial cooperatives, the large industrial cooperatives, which are represented by Konfekoop, and on the other hand we have the small cooperatives of the social economy, which we have usually called the third sector. This huge diversification makes us understand that at least there should be a representation of each of these realities today in SPRI. It has not been possible to include our consideration, and, well, we take it with sport, but we understand that we have to put our amendment to this House's consideration, if it is of interest. To conclude, I must say that at the present day socialonomy offers a real alternative economic model. This economic model has given priority to people and not to economic profits, that's why it's so interesting. The values that push them (gain, solidarity, collective challenges) are very interesting, and will require another corporation model from the nearest Euskaca to the future. A business model, capable of producing wealth, but also capable of producing a social employment, capable of conducting business, but also capable of keeping people in the midst of the project, and capable of selling outside, but able to promote local development. That is why we maintain our amendment, with the exception that I have said about the error that appears, and I do have to say that, well, we will obviously not oppose the adoption of the paper's opinion, because we understand, as I said earlier, that it is important. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euzko Abertzaleak, explanation of vote... Does Mr. Barrio want to take the word? No? All right, since the discussion is over, we're going to vote together the amendment that the Podemos has reserved together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 54; 10; the opponents, 44; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u156	So it's not accepted. The amendment of the EH team is cancelled, so that we shall vote next is the only article of the law. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 54; supporters 44; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u157	So the only article that's ever been approved has been accepted. Next, the last regulation, the explanation, and the name of the law, is agreed upon. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 54; supporters 44; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u158	It is therefore approved of the Law, which alters the 5/1981 of June, for the Sustament and Transformation of Industrie. Next, going to the vote, Euscala Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u159	Yes, thank you, President. Well, the Basque Socialists voted for this amendment to the SPRI law which was proposed to us because we understood that two main issues had to be highlighted. Firstly, the milestone of a representation of the social economy on the board of directors of SPRI, and secondly, the procedure for carrying out such an appointment in a coordinated manner is established on the basis of the responsibilities of the Basque Government, both in the field of the social economy and in the field of industry. And on the occasion of the consideration of this proposal for a law, the Basque Socialists have already justified our vote in favour, based on two aspects. First, it was a requirement of the very scope of the social economy, which is also consistent with the agreement we adopted in this House on 15 October 2010. That agreement urged the Basque public institutions to deepen their recognition of the Basque cooperative movement and of the social economy in general, thus taking the necessary steps to achieve their presence in the bodies and institutions that articulate the social and economic policies of Euskadi. And secondly, because the characteristics of the social economy in Euskadi were adequate in relation to the Basque economy in general, mainly in the areas of intervention of the Society for Competitive Transformation. Because, while it is true that SPRI was constituted in 1981 as one of the main instruments through which the Basque Government developed industrial policy in relation above all to the promotion and conversion of the Basque industry, in order to achieve the sufficient degree of competitiveness, diversification and technology, it is no less true that there are three main characteristics of the Basque social economy which are of particular interest in relation to the actions that the Society for Competitive Transformation is currently carrying out, such as: Innovation as a basic pillar of competitiveness. The innovation bet is a risk and a comparatively more consolidated bet among the enterprises of the social economy than in the whole economy of the Basque Autonomous Community, and from 2012 to 2014 the proportion of the enterprise group attached to the social economy carrying out innovation activities rose 4.6 percentage points above the overall average of the Basque enterprises. Another factor was the issue of employment, and another factor was the opening up of external markets. And this made us understand that the social economy needed to be inserted into those boards of directors that promoted these areas of innovation, employment and economic revival. And there is perhaps a paradox that we did not want to overlook either, and it is the fact that in the draft budget law that has recently entered the House for the 2018 financial year, the transformation of the SPRI, of the Society for Competitive Transformation, into a public body under private law, due to a rereading of the most appropriate instruments to develop the plans for entrepreneurship, industrialization and internationalization, is proposed. The issue that is not going to be incompatible with the agreement we have adopted here today, and that we will well be able to make effect through the budget law itself for the 2018 financial year, or through the organ decree, so that we make use of that agreement to which it has been difficult to reach, because it has not been an easy initiative that has had a simple journey, but, well, it is, we have approved it, and I think we can make it perfectly compatible with what the draft budget law for 2018. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellería from there? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u161	Very brief. For two reasons: one, because I take less risks, speaking little, of being subjected to any judicial process, and secondly, because there is not much to talk about. Parliament adopted a request by the Group of the European People's Party for the social economy to enter SPRI's board of directors in one way or another. And today we have passed a law that says: "The Board of Directors of SPRI, in addition to other representatives of business organizations, will include a representative of the social economy". Then we have fulfilled what was requested. Commitment fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-02.u162	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and 15 p.m.
