ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. Before the gathering begins, we shall have a minute's silence for the 31 people who died in the Mediterranean yesterday, but in general the memory of the dead. [[Pause]] I want you to know that the third point has been withdrawn. First point in theme list: "Phum up the other bill of parlamentary team, concerning the production of a committee for the evangelical trial of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Urizar, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u1	Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, all of you congressmen. Once again, a theme related to the superfluous process of Catalonia is brought to this Chamber of EHs. We bring it because we believe that what's happening there will be a direct influence on the company of eroscals, and that, consequently, it must be our duty to face what can happen. Unfortunately, I don't think that our perception is shared, because no other group has introduced correction. I can understand that it may be understood that those who wish to ignore the process of Catalonia, or from the groups that want to ignore, take it away from them because after all they think they don't listen to them. We don't understand that so many cases are supported by groups that protect Catalan's right to protect or process. But, well, every one has to explain himself later. Whether you like it or not, the bombing process of Catalan is a reality. It is an objective fact, and this is how some people refuse to accept it. And like all processes, like all processes, the process of Catalan is taking steps. One of these steps, and no doubt the most important thing that has ever been before, is the refrendum, which in September, will be carried through the eau d'Evélène; the most important thing, for Catalan will have an opportunity to express their will in it. At the moment when Catalan decides this decision, and there is no doubt that it will be favorable to independence, another phase of the process will open, which will act on its own path, which will certainly have its own, its own, its influence. Or is it some one who doubts whether catalan should put his own property into action, or that starting his own pension system will not affect the Spanish State? What about the Spanish debt? How does Spanish economy affect the disconnecting of Catalunia's income? And what would have to be more important for us than this is how will Spain cause us to lack money? Who can assure us that the absence of Spanish people will not be ours to fill up the Spanish gaps? From time to time, if it is too much to be told, our autonomical structure is questionable by the many political Spanish representatives, declaring that we have privileges. It is true, too, that the management of these political representatives, or of those political representatives, has hitherto been shown in favor of the maintenance of structure, but I doubt that they will preserve it when the state of Spain is reduced to a state of economy. And this is not a belief that we only have, a belief we have, because in silence we all share. We plainly declare that there is danger in the past, because we have often seen that the agreements made with Spain have not been sufficient guarantees for our people, because they do not fulfil it, or because those who are filled are afterwards in danger. And therefore we assert that absolute Soveraignty is the sole guarantee. Others may not see danger, because your project is called Spain, and consequently the Basque Country remains at a second stage. And others, although you suspect that it may be so, do not publicly admit that there is danger in making a treaty with Spain, so as not to hinder the tactics of your present men. But there's danger, let's be clear, there's danger. When in Spain they start to miss economic resources, we'll notice it. We'll suspect that the measures taken in Madrid will certainly affect it here. We'll feel it, as we've seen it before. During the crisis we're having, I say, the Espideau, because a great part of society has not yet exceeded the crisis, and PPP took advantage of its neoliberial policies to apply backward measures to us, even though our situation was different, though the decisions taken in Madrid were not in common with the situation here. There's work and pension forms. That's where the ceiling of expenses is fixed, and all the obstacles and prohibitions that have been made in public work offers. All these measures were made on the terms of the low economic situation. Because of the bad economic situation, it was inevitable that the measures should be applied. And in our society, no doubt, they have had very negative influences. Remember the millions when we talked about them? It's not that long. Ten years ago, less than ten years ago, that word was used to identify a person who didn't earn much money. 10 years ago, any person with a 1,000-dollar salary, we doubted how to make up his life project. We doubted it might be possible to get ahead of us. To buy or rent a house, to have children and to deal with their education and their needs, the minimum resources necessary for a life project were not assured, at least, with a $1,000 salary. Well, in 2017, 10 years later, the concept of Mileurists is gone. He disappeared, not because the problem is gone, not because all wages are above 1,000. So precisely because of the opposite, more and more people get paid less than 1,000 euros. There's a lot of people who have salarys 500, 600 dollars a day. Let us be clear of this future, the future of youth itself is at stake. This same week, a sociological investigation has informed us that the young people leave their parents' homes later and later. And that's no surprise. How can it be possible to build a special project with the miserable wages that are being built? On the other hand, we see that in many families, to get to the end of a month, they have to go to grandparents' pensions. And when we talk about pensions, what kind of pensions will they be in the future with such miserable wages? Then some of them will complain that RGI is or is spending too much money on social aids, but if this situation does not come back, they'll have to spend more and more money in the future, because a large part of society will be left in the corner. And when we talk about the money that public institutions are going to lead, let's ask if the institutions will have enough money. We all preach by mouth at least to maintain that worthy public system. For it has been clearly asserted that we shall be able to do but little with the demands of the public system, with which we have our income, more than once. And do we hope to guarantee tickets to those miserable wages that go to the future? Someone may think I'm building a catastrophic image, but the economic data that is noticed in the street shows us no other happy future than those economic data that are visible in the streets in the pockets of the people's pockets. All these restrictive measures which have been imposed on us from Madrid have left us a difficult future. Now let's think what happens to the Spanish economy if 20% of the raw internal product disappear, what happens to the Spanish economy if one of the main industrial and economic sites disappears. Well, I'll tell you, that it's going to begin another reduction period, and that will also be a direct influence on us, just as the present has had, and above all, besides starting a new period of shrimping from Madrid, we'll start looking for new incomes. And though it is true that our economic weight is smaller than that of Catalonia, according to the conviction between this member and Navarre, and the concerts, we have a weight of 7,84%, which is said to be smaller than that. Don't think it's the reason that Madrid's speaking of privileges to our superfluous ones, don't think they'll refuse our superfluous ones. There are many in Spain who think that ours is a privilege. In Spain, many people think that we live above their rank and when necessity strikes, the last drawer is recorded. Is it not proper, then, that we should be attentive to the process of sovereignty in Catalonia? Is he really realistic about turning back on what's going on? I think the Basque People are gathering, no. He's not realistic or responsible. Catalan has a right to make their way as we do ours, and we think their movement will open a door for anyone who wants to take advantage of it. It's up to us to take advantage of that door or not. But let us know what it will take advantage of the door, and make our own way, or what it will suppose to be a greater burden to keep within the Spanish State than it is to-day. Let us know clearly and examine it properly. That's our wish, that's our request, and that's why we're asking for a special committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Passing over the uncorrected teams, the Euskal popular, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u3	Egun where you're going. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. Mr Urizar, I have to start by telling you that because of the respect that this House deserves us, and the debates that are being discussed here, we are going to approach this debate with that rigour and with that respect resulting from institutional responsibility, but believe me that it is complicated for me. I find it difficult to do it this way. Not because you do not inspire me that respect, which you know is not so, but because this debate is a debate that we have already brought to this House until exhaustion. And I can understand that everyone has his political obsessions, everyone has his political intentions – this is very reasonable, it is even legitimate – but that does not force the rest of the House and the rest of the political parties to enter that game and to enter that strategy, marked in this case by who has a political obsession and who wants to transfer, in addition to the most reliable way possible, with all that that implies, the reality of what is happening in Catalan politics to the reality of Basque politics. Because, of course, Mr. Urizar urged us not to turn our backs on what is happening in Catalonia. I wish we could! We are constantly bombarded by this debate! We are bombarded from an informational, political point of view... There's nothing more to see today. Nobody turns their backs on him! What is happening is that we are already in a process of exhaustion, which not only occurs in the rest of Spain, but fundamentally has its origin in the social and political exhaustion experienced in a growing way, week by week, in Catalonia itself, and experienced in the skin of the Catalans themselves. But, on the subject of what you propose, it is nothing more and nothing less than the creation of a special commission to study the effects of the sovereignist process in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. That is to say, what you are telling us is that we believe in this Parliament a committee for parliamentarians to sit down and see what happens in Catalonia. Of course, this sounds pretty surreal, from our point of view. Because it is also true that you are covered by the Rules of Procedure: you are covered by the Rules of Procedure in Rule 62.1, which literally says that these special committees can be set up in Parliament for those aspects which directly affect Basque society. You have striven here to argue and to explain how it directly affects Basque society, but these are arguments that, in any case, are brought by the hair. And I am talking about a strictly formal question, if I may, at the beginning of this speech. Because then there are two questions. The first is: Is there a sovereignist process in Catalonia? And secondly, does this affect Basque society? does it affect Basque society in such a way that it justifies the creation in this Parliament of a special committee for us to study the effects of this so-called sovereignist process? Starting from the beginning, it is true that, according to the independenceists, there is a sovereignist process. There is nothing but to hear the independenceists in Catalonia (not the Catalans, not Catalonia: the independenceists in Catalonia), who argue that there is a sovereignist process. I have to tell you that, according to the rule of law, it doesn't exist. There's something else. What we are having an opportunity to see, sometimes with surprise, others with some hilarity, others with concern, most of the time, of what is happening in Catalonia, is a completely different thing to an orderly process, to a process resulting from understanding, agreement, the search for consensus. We're seeing something else. We are seeing a legal misconception, and this is supported by successive rulings of the Constitutional Court (which for some the Constitutional Court I understand also has very little value, but today it is the arbitrator in our country), therefore it is a legal cliché what is happening, and it is a deeply anti-democratic process. It is undemocratic because without the observance of the law, of the laws that we have endowed ourselves with to live with, there is no possibility of understanding and there is also no possibility of classifying something, a procedure in this case, what you call process, as democratic. We are, in any case, facing a process of confrontation, of war, as Mr Homs demonstrated and acknowledged and expressed with great joy recently: "We are at war with Spain". In legal war, in democratic war, but in war. A terminology that in democracy and in advanced societies, of course, demonstrates the already degree of political schizophrenia that has been reached in Catalonia. We are faced with a democratic, legal abuse, an abuse of coexistence, an abuse of democracy, an abuse of understanding... and you claim that we are here on a special commission to talk about this. Does it affect Basque society? Man, the Basques, fortunately, we are sensitive to what is happening around us, and we are a highly politicized society too, in the positive aspect and also in the negative. It probably affects the whole of Spain, and there is a reflection, a debate... We all look, as I said before, with a certain surprise, sometimes hilarity, and often concern, what happens in Catalonia. But what we have to achieve here, in our opinion, is not only that it does not affect us, but that it does not infect us what is happening in Catalonia. That does not infect us the attitude of Catalan nationalist politicians and leaders, who have managed to make Catalonia today something very different from what it was a few years ago. In Catalonia, which was an example of understanding, of progress, of agreement, that it was even an image of cosmopolitan land, that it was able to attract investment, that it was able to live together within it identities, symbolism, that it was able to live together naturally and normally various ways of understanding and feeling Catalan, today unfortunately the tornadoes have been reversed, and today Catalonia lives a climate of a certain social crisis, of obvious political crisis, and, of course, of citizens' tiredness towards its politicians. But not towards the rest of Spain, but the politicians themselves in Catalonia. I think the Basques have to learn and take good note, and for that we do not need a special commission. We need to learn and take good note of how not to do things, how to do things so that our land is not a place in which any investor does not think twice, but runs away; how to do so that other autonomous communities are not just shelter from people, but also from capitals; how to do so that politics is edifying and does not become a space in which one and the other throws the wrecks at the head without a solution of continuity, because they have embarked on a journey and on a path that only leads to confrontation and that can only lead, through dead ends, to bad consequences. What is happening, what is happening in Catalonia – and I finish already – we see it all the others from the rest of Spain, as I said before, with interest, with concern, sometimes with hilarity, but in the end the objective reality is that what is happening in Catalonia, because of responsibility, mainly because of the responsibility of the independence politicians, is that Catalonia is worse than what was twenty years ago. Look, I've said it once and I'm going to repeat it: I think something bad happens when the Catalonia of 92, for example (I put that of the year 92, which is like a symbolic reference, which we can all welcome with some ease), a Catalonia of coexistence, progress and example, has deteriorated today. Politics has deteriorated Catalonia. Politics in Catalonia, made by Catalan politicians, has deteriorated not only politics in Catalonia, but coexistence and social climate in Catalonia. I was in Catalonia this weekend, and I can assure you that people who were defending independence no longer, but you could vote, today you are tired. A map of independence and a map of this sovereignist debate. They are tired and exhausted, and want politicians who respond to the problems that people have and that they also have in Catalonia: education, social protection, health... And we are not talking about this today in Catalonia, and we are talking about the obsessions that you share with the Catalan independenceists. That is why, among other things, our vote will be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u5	Thank you, President. Well, today's in the middle, last week was in commission, the previous one was a picture... I do not know what the formula Bildu will now use to bring the stellate to this Parliament next week, but I am sure you will find something. But, since we neither hear anything new in this sense, neither in our position will you find anything that we do not come repeating until satiety and that I believe is what a majority of Basques and Basques validated a very short time ago (six months) in this country. And that's not going to be flags or unilateral channels, or confrontations of feelings and identities, or ruptures. It's going to be agreement, pact and legality. As in Euskadi we have found a formula that we have resided in the presentation of self-government, in which you also participate, it seems to us that there is also a forum to talk about the consequences of the open discussion in Catalonia, which is what it proposes today. But it seems to us that it is made more as an excuse than as a conviction, because we very much doubt that Bildu wants to talk about those consequences or implications that can have for us what they discuss there, I doubt very much that you want to analyze it, because you already have a conclusion made before you make any analysis. And your conclusion is that the Basques must follow, yes or yes, that same path, take what is carried forward. Suddenly, we already know what has been carried forward in Catalonia the wager of Catalan nationalism: public services, social rights, a regenerating decision of their institutions, after the judges have considered that Catalan rectors have been guided by interests that had very little to do with the common interest... And neither do we believe that Bildu's intention is what they claim to have with this commission, but to reiterate his speech, to try to put the Basque Nationalist Party in some kind of trouble... And the Basque Socialists will reiterate our position, our appeal remains to dialogue between governments, in this case Spain and Catalonia, to channel the differences that exist through the legal channels. Because political differences (which exist, it is true) are the raison d'être of democracy, which is how plurality is expressed politically, and where they are addressed, in parliamentary forums, not before the courts. We fully share the position that our Catalan comrades of the PSC maintain there and their constant appeal to dialogue and politics, which is what we wanted to apply here in Euskadi. And that is what is allowing us in Euskadi to devote our time and our effort to offering solutions to citizens, not to create new problems for them, and that all agreements meet criteria of legal certainty, and therefore of legality. Because the law is not an imposition; the law is a norm agreed between the legislators, be they from Spain, from Euskadi or from Catalonia, and it involves majorities and minorities, and respect for the rules of play, both things. It's not worth it without each other. And that here we have, unfortunately, well learned and well scarred. When the fever passed, we began to recognize ourselves again as what we are, as a plural society, with different feelings and identities. And once we recognized that, and took the brunt of those who killed those who publicly expressed those differences, we were able to travel again through a space of understanding between different, which has always given the best fruits for Basque citizens in this country. As was to be done there for Catalan citizens, not for the dreams of some; for nationalists and for non-nationalists. And now we here have translated it into a government commitment, and we sincerely believe that we are doing better, much better than in Catalonia. What is the point of rectifying and re-reflecting ourselves in broken mirrors, such as the one in Catalonia? Why a commission for Catalonia and not another for Kosovo, or for Scotland, or for Quebec, or for Brexit, or to analyse the effects of his colleague Trump's policy, to which they send telegrams? Because, when we evaluate effects, we can transform this Parliament, instead of a legislative and government-led chamber, into a sort of international observatory! And we do not aspire to be an example to anyone, we do not do things to be admired in the world, but when the European institutions have no interest, none, in what the Catalan authorities can tell them, and yet they do want to know how our industrial model or our social model works, who have to think about the effects of their decisions are others. Those who have participated in the social construction of this country want to adapt for the future this scheme, which has worked thanks to our self-government, our capacity to agree and our decision to build a cohesive society. And that's where we're at. Bildu proposes a commission to look at us in that broken Catalan mirror, and to Catalonia, if common sense and dialogue do not remedy it, we see it already in the rear-view mirror, in what is left behind, in that model that intends to overlay the country to the citizens, to the people, that model of ordago that certainly does not serve to care for people in the outpatient clinic, nor gets teachers in schools, nor better protects the one who needs it. Well, no. From there we have nothing to imitate. We have no conclusions to draw from the challenges, from skipping the rules that you yourself have agreed to, from the lack of determination to clean up the internal pipes of a contaminated system, from which they make a blindfold, from the lack of ambition of a government supported by those who from the beginning said they only intended to mount a chicken. Nothing to learn from anyone who repeatedly appeals to the urn until the urn gives you reason, which systematically denies you so far. Nothing that simplifies their positions to confuse citizens, to put them before a yes or no on issues that their representatives are unable to resolve and that end up creating new problems rather than solving them. That's the antipode of what to do, that's the anti-politics. That's what Trump does in the United States and what Le Pen does in France: anti-political, what you want us to do here. And the Socialists have decided to do politics, pure politics. Don't get lost in sterile debates, solve people's day to day, and do it with others who think differently from us. Because agreeing with someone who thinks the same as you has no merit at all. He deals with someone who thinks differently. That is the value of policy and the value of agreements: solving people's day-to-day lives, and doing so by mutual agreement. And of course there are problems, that there are shortcomings in our self-government, that we can improve, and that we are prepared to do so in accordance with the current legal order. That was the Basque Socialists' bet. We have found a Basque way, a way of our own; it has cost, but we will continue to bet decisively on it. And we want Catalans to be able to find their own path, from their particularities, as soon as possible, in which dialogue and agreement replace permanent monologues and ruptures. Here we have been able; let us hope that there too. And we do not believe that this continuous speaker that the abertzale left puts the independenceists in this House helps them, because every time he does what he does it is the opposite: to reinforce the idea that there is a much more practical and more effective alternative in a community of strong identity feelings such as this; that plurality can and should be managed from the law, if the goal being pursued is that everyone – and I say everyone without exception – feels part of the same community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Well, it has already been a few times that, given the fixation that some parties have on certain topics, we have used popular expressions to describe what happens in this plenary. And today I have an example of an expression, which would be "Danger around." It is that there are a few times already those that in these few months have been discussed about Catalonia and its process, which is totally legitimate, and within this House not only that, but that have been several times and several times the joint statements that we have signed some of the parties present here in relation to the democratic violations that are taking place in Catalonia, which exist, that are taking place. And I would also say to Mr Semper that what is deeply undemocratic is precisely the attitude maintained by the Spanish Government, turning its back on any opportunity for dialogue with Catalonia. But today it is about bringing an initiative that I believe is aimed at the parish of some, to take advantage also of talking not only about the issue that brings us, which is how the Catalan process affects Euskal Herria, but also about any issue that has to do with the Spanish State; that I repeat that it is respectable and legitimate, but perhaps it is somewhat repetitive, since the position of all parties has become more than clear. But, going to the bottom of the question, the analysis of the Catalan sovereignist process is an analysis that is mainly political, and so we conceived from Elkarrekin Podemos. It is an objective that a political process is taking place, but this political process is difficult to achieve, and difficult to achieve through a committee analysis. In our case we also have a homologous organization present in Catalonia, with whose criteria we agree. Not just because it is from there, but because we believe it is a good analysis of that reality and of the political day-to-day in Catalonia. We share a solution to the situation there, and, as you all know, it is only by respecting and implementing the right to decide on bilaterally agreed models, which require broad majority, to carry out changes in status, and to link the territorial issue to social issues. In short, a solution of clear inspiration in other models such as the Canadian, which have been implemented in societies similar to ours, by its degree of human development and by the settled awareness of a democratic citizen. But what is being debated today is not how we see the Catalan process, which is also the debate that has been tried to bring – and I am sorry to say that some of you have also fallen into it; it has fallen into debate again about what the Catalan process looks like – but whether it affects us, how and how, and especially where to address these issues within the House. For our part, the answer is quite simple. There is a presentation of self-government that already exists and that I recall that, on initiative in addition to Elkarrekin Podemos, it includes among its contents expressly regarding the right to decide. We do not need to create a new space to address these issues. You can ask for a series of appearances, ask for reports to be drawn up if they were of interest to the presentation; we can even discuss a methodology that allows us to address this issue in an agile and effective manner, if it turns out that it can feed or help in some way that understanding of the process being undertaken here, but, frankly, we do not believe that it is necessary or desirable to create another committee. This is simply the reason why we will vote against this non-law proposal, as we did with an amendment to the Basque Government's budgets which was in a similar sense, in the follow-up to the Catalan sovereignist process. Honestly, for our part, there's not much more to say. We are not for the work of repeating the discussions we have already had on the process. I think, and I say this with affection, that the positions of the groups in this Parliament have not changed in the last few weeks since we had a debate on this issue. Our position in favour of the right to decide is clear, our position on the process is clear, and it is clear that we are prepared to address this issue where it is appropriate, in the presentation of self-government. A little more, I think, can be added, except that what is sought is to have the umpteenth internal consumption debate for some group, on the basis of a debate already dealt with in recent months not once, twice or three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u8	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u9	Good morning, everyone. As soon as we presented the sacrifice, EH Collect heard of our position. I explained directly to your spokesman, saying that we had self-ference. And besides, we've got our own savings. That is to say, when we wanted to get information about Catalonia, each group put down a few names, or dropped them in the previous law. EH Collect had a name from Catalonia, at first: Forcadell. But he couldn't either come or have another reason for it, we don't know, and then Anna Simó came. In this law, even in the time of the EH gathering, he has not mentioned any of the Catalonia. We also presented a Catalonia in the previous law. And this time we haven't seen any need of it. In the end, Catalonia is carrying this process. The process is always called superfluousist, but I believe it is a democratic process. First of all, democratic. Why on the basis of this principle, when these democratic columns are denied, the rest come, the rest of the political standards. And that's why you said, Mr. Urizar, that you don't understand how you belong to both... In September, October, it'll be a referendum, then another phase will come. Then even today there's an open letter to Katalunia in the papers. I'm not going in, because you're making points too easy for us. Why, even before that, some one said in this Chamber: "You shot that process on the leg." And at the moment, to use the Basque Country's name for deals is very painful to you. You always talk about others. An open letter to Catalonia, going to the contents and into the PNV. What are you going to tell Catalan? Besides entering with the Spanish State, not with PNV. Instead of defining one's project, let us see what others have done, from which we may infer some means which may be useful or possible here. Look, the debate for me is at the moment that Puigdemont sent a letter to Rajoy yesterday's news yesterday. In the end, the interview will be questioned, questioned, referendum. And there's a denial. There's competition right now. Then the project's definition will come and what you want. But competition, competition, even in the face of the nation is present: Is that the question whether this referendum is to be questioned or not? And the reason why some people and others put them on the table. For this purpose we had an excellent opportunity here two months ago, because we received them who had been to us the nationaltuity or manifesta throughout the state and also to explain them beyond the state. They were with us, with you, too. I think about everything. In his time the Social Party wanted to keep them under discipline, because they voted for the right of determining those who had been expelled from the party. And I don't know if Puigdemont has done this yesterday or if it's the last or the last invitation, I don't want to discuss it with anyone, but what I've done is to take the manife. And the manificate is absolutely democratic. It's what we do, and at this moment I think it's with the Basques to know and let's not confuse things... where the key is at this moment, I think it shows itself in this manificate, and I wish at least to finish my shift by reading it. He says: "The national consciousness of the American people and the will for self-organization, which have been repeatedly expressed, has its ancient profound historical root. Catalonia, by historical, linguistic, and culture, is integrated into the State of Spain, which is the International, although its political structures do not admit of this plurination of reality." I think it's the first diagnosis. "The desire of Catalonia to decide its political future has become increasingly evident to the world. To the point of becoming a sustained aspiration, which today welcomes the will of a large majority of its population. "Among the essential and inalienable rights of democratic societies is recognized that of deciding their political future. And it is this same right that sustains the request of a majority of citizens of Catalonia, who want to materialize it through a referendum." He's not talking about specific projects, he's talking about consultation, he's talking about referendum. You all know or know that there have been more than 450,000 people no longer, but private, legal entities (from artists to entrepreneurs, the Barcelona Club Football, etc., etc.), who have subscribed to this manifesto. They say: "Let us show that the will to express Catalans and Catalans through a referendum is a majority and a cross-cutting one; and consistent with the civic, peaceful and democratic determination expressed by the many mobilizations of organized society in favour of their right to decide." "We assume, as the experts of the Constitutional Law have maintained, that today the Julian Spanish frame allows us to make a referendum agreed upon the State in Catalonia. It's possible. unless this opportunity has hitherto been opened, it has been for the want of political will of the Spanish Governments. "As the right is intelligible, it must be understood as a means of acquiring democratic resolutions before political affairs, not of increasing those which are or are created new. "We consider this person, entity, organization, and organization, as a privileged instrument for a democratic depression, which makes the plural political discussion possible, the agreement of the final and effective decision of the consent. "Therefore, I think, it is because of all this that I think that there is a contempt here, and that I have with eucalyptus and rhyme, and therefore we ask the governments of the state of Catalonia to overcome political difficulties and aporisms, and come to a final agreement in which the international community will confess the necessary condition and security. The result of this must be politically exclusive and effective. "For all this: "We urge the Governments of Catalonia and the Spanish State to overcome political difficulties and a prioriism, and finally to reach an agreement that establishes the just and necessary conditions and guarantees for the holding of a referendum recognized by the international community, the result of which must be politically binding and effective. "We recognize the Parliament of Catalonia as the democratic institution where the popular will of the country is manifested. That is why we support those initiatives and agreements that arise from it for the articulation of this Referendum. "We express the conviction that the referendum is an inclusive instrument, which will allow the free expression of the various positions that the citizens of Catalonia have expressed regarding Catalonia's political relationship with the Spanish State. "We affirm that democratic culture demands political solutions to political problems. And we do so by appealing to the fundamental mechanism of modern societies: the knowledge and validation of the majority will of the people expressed by the vote. "And at last this referendum must have given rise to the feeling that all should take part in it. To this end, it is necessary that a democratic, plural, and a discussion should be made in the conditions of equality, amongst all the legal options which are expressed in Catalonia." We join this manifest, from beginning to end. And here there's no question whether a particular project is independent, whether it's a confessional or whatever it is. Here is a democratic appeal, a demand, and an demand. And at the present moment, I want to remind her that, considering the Parliament of Catalonia, they have signed this manifect, that is to say, the manifate for the right to decide represents the Chamber between 75% and 80%.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u10	Finish up, Mr. Egibar...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u11	That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Well, Mr. Sémper told us that every initiative that we bring to this Chamber of Katalunia is related to our political obsessions, and that remains. It doesn't seem to matter much whether the Catalan process is going to happen or not, not only to you, but also to Mr. Pastor, because it doesn't affect Mr. Pastor very much either. You said you couldn't turn your back on the Catalan trial. If you could only allow it! You can see what your will is, because it is true that when you talk about Catalonia, I make a education with what Mr. Egibar said that we are talking about democracy and politics, and that PPri seems to leave a bad body. There is no process of Catalonia, because the state of law does not admit it. And you saw him when you went there, because you were in Katalunia a few minutes ago, and you saw that people were sick of it. I think... What would be the contrary model? For it is true that when thou speakest of the Common-wealth of Law, it is of the Common-wealth of Justice, when thou hast it by the hand of the panger, thou decidest what is the Common-wealth of Law, and what is not, and what is not, and what we may give it, and not what is not. I've been in Catalonia two weeks ago and they told me the opposite, because the State of Spain used all its powers to question a democratic demand from Catalonia, because it's a democratic demand, here and there, and wherever you like, because they tried to prevent him from being found in Catalonia by the courts. Here's another thing, because the problem in Catalonia doesn't begin in Catalonia, the problem in Catalan begins in Spain. The problem in Catalonia is that Spain decides what models it must be in Catalonia, decides what models it ought to be, and in that sense forgive me, but you yourself, PPsco, you're not the right pattern to tell me what PP's example is to be, because we see PP's model in Spain where it goes, because PP's model is connected with corruption and corruption in Spain. Same thing to Mr. Pastor. I mean, the problem is not in Catalan. The problem has arisen, because we have insisted on the past Catalan, the agreement, the agreement, the arrangement of the past, between the different, well, Catalan decided its own course of action, its course. Let's just... I do not wish to say only some words, but what Madrid did when he did not do. And the problem, you say, is that the problem is that the public services have been ruined. Public services were beginning to go to hell before the process started running in 2012. 6.000 and 10,000 million per year calculate that they remain in Madrid, whether they stay in Madrid or not return from the taxes in Catalan, no public service can be maintained. But that wasn't a problem. It's not a problem that's been created right now. That's a problem ahead. And when we say why a committee like this is not interested in Europe. Well, we're going to be marcias, aren't we? But right now in Ireland the commission is already created, the Westminster Committee is created. See how little importance it is that the members of the commune and of the Chamber of Lords and all the political parties who represent Westminster will participate in it. In Switzerland the board is completed, the committee is formed in Estonia, and in Finland the committee is formed. It's funny. It seems we're the Navy, Europe doesn't matter, but farther away, in parliaments far farther away, the committee is formed. So I think the Navy might be different. And today, the road to the self-gorganization, the route to the autogonization, Mr Martínnez, is a repertivative debatane. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Well, if we could only bring a debate once in this Chamber, there'd probably be a lot of things that wouldn't come, because we see a lot of things that sit on the table over and over again, and keep on the position of different groups, but we think we should bring it back, And you've already discussed, Mr. Egiebar, if we had an opportunity there to ask for an opening, or if we had an opportunity to ask for a performance. You said yesterday, you thought we were going to bring someone from Catalonia. But it's deeper than this for us, it's not just a person who's brought in from Catalonia to examine or listen to what he's going to say, but when we ask him to complete a committee, it's because we really believe that the Katalunia process will be caused, political and economics. And it doesn't get worked up with a show. You're telling me and Mr Martínez says there's a chance for a committee like that in power. Well, it's not in that calendar we've been doing so far. Is there a will to create? Well, it will be a majority to create, to welcome, but it's true that all these things are planned when EH Collect puts them on the table. If EH Collect doesn't put them in, there's no way of planning them...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u14	Finishing up, Mr. Urizar...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u15	... for there was no such thing in the course we were in, and it is important to us. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u17	Mr. Martinez, I disagree with you on one thing... , in several, but in one background that seems more relevant to me. And besides, this is a kind of mantra that's been installed, but I'm going to make an effort to try to refute it. This is because the People's Party government turns its back on dialogue. And it is something that, moreover, to a large extent, is a thesis that Mr Egibar has defended. Not just the two of you, but it's something shared. Of course, it's one thing, it's dialogue, and another thing, it's tragala. I mean, when you say, "Hey, look, on the equidae day of the month, I'm gonna put in some ballot boxes, I'm gonna skip the law, I'm gonna try to break the constitutional and statutory consensus, that's how it is..., and now we're gonna sit down and talk"... No, this is going to happen; whatever you do, give me the arguments you give me, or you make the bridge pine, this is going to happen. But, yes, let's sit down and talk. I suppose it's about the sex of angels! Because when one wants to dialogue, when one wants to seek understanding and agreement, he does not bring them up, nor does he already draw the term station. The term station is reached according to what two people or two institutions discuss or debate..., mark a path, chart a journey, to reach a consensual and agreed end. And this is not what is being proposed by the Government of Catalonia, by the nationalist parties in Catalonia. They're posing a tragala. Bring it in. That before there could have been all kinds of responsibilities, analyses, reflections that we can even...? I'm sure; but what's coming up today is a treat. I have a thesis that is not very shared, but I will share it with you. When does all this come up, Mr. Urizar? How are we doing here? How did we get to all this? It is true that some blame, and it is also another of the mantras... "The People's Party, so... " Aznar didn't come out, fortunately. Others blame Zapatero when he said that "I will accept the Statue that comes out of the Parliament of Catalonia" (then it was not so). Well, there's a lot of arguments. But I think there's an objective fact that we can't overlook. In the month of June 2011, in that context of social exaltation derived from the 15-M also, the Parliament of Catalonia is surrounded. The Catalonian Parliament is surrounded in a political context, in which until then the demand of Catalan independenceist politicians was not this one of independence or the referendum. What Mr. Mas said, what other independenceist parties said, was "let's talk about autonomous financing, let's talk about possible reforms of the Statute...". That is, this was the climate of demand, the level of demand. But it is in June 2011 when, after surrounding the Parliament of Catalonia, after President Mas and other councillors, even some Members, have to access and leave the Parliament of Catalonia by helicopter; when it turns out that the sacrosanct inviolability of nationalists and independenceists jumps out of the air, because that dichotomy also jumps nationalist-non-nationalist, but the debate is put and focuses on a social, economic and management debate of the economic crisis, amen also of corruption, especially of corruption also seen in Catalonia – institutional, as we are having the opportunity to see – is when the strategy of the independence and Catalan parties, with Artur Mas at the head, changes. And see how skillful they have been, so that in all these years there is no longer social or economic debate in Catalonia, there is no longer a debate on how public services are managed in Catalonia, on waiting lists, on the absence of beds in health care, on the quality of education, on social protection. All that doesn't exist in Catalonia anymore! The only debate is on the so-called process. They've been very skilful. The independence leaders have been very skilful in diverting the focus of debate and the focus of attention, although they have taken some political party forward, even though they have taken some political tradition ahead, a tradition of understanding and consensus, as it represented, with all its imperfections and with all its illegal issues as well, Convergence i Unió. This is the reality! Are we better, or are we worse? Is Cataluña a more upbuilding example today than in the year (I will no longer say 1999 again, not to repeat myself)..., that in the year 2000, or is it an example not to be followed? We argue that it is an example of which to flee. And that's why I was telling him that what we have to try is not that it doesn't affect us: it's that it doesn't infect us, politically speaking, that climate and that way of understanding politics and that way of understanding the exercise of a responsibility as high as the government is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u19	Well, if you'll excuse me, from the seat, because I'm going to be very brief. This is very smooth and very loud, and you are very heavy, Mr Urizar, and very insistent, but it is clear that you are not going to convince us with your arguments, nor are we going to make you fall from the donkey. So, there's not much more to say. But I did want to leave two notes on the Catalan situation, to you who goes a lot to Catalonia, but it gives me the impression that you always meet with the same bubble of people and don't know much more than what happens in Catalonia. And in Catalonia there are many more realities than you know. And it is not that Catalan civil society is a society faced, no, it is not true, but two societies have been created that live on parallel paths and turn their backs on each other: one that thinks only of Catalan, only of independence and only of the process, and nothing else, and the other (by the way, more and more) that cares about the problems that concern everyone (health, education, the quality of public services, housing...), and that thinks of Catalan and Spanish, and that it is becoming more and more abundant. And lastly, a poll has been published in Catalan newspapers these days, that 61% of Catalans are against a unilateral declaration of independence. Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u21	First of all, thank Mr. Pastor for his brevity, because he was the first... With this I am not going to refer to him, but to the rest I am going to tell him, that you have fallen on this issue, as always happens. In the end, less in the last minute or two minutes of the speeches, we have not discussed the issue, whether a special committee should be opened or not, or whether the presentation of self-government is the right place to debate this issue, and the rest of the time, of course, we have devoted it to talking about the Catalan process, where the positions of the parties are very clear already. Very clear. A reminder. I would remind Mr Semper that some Members went on a helicopter, but many others walked through the door as well. I mean, we're gonna remember reality. And Mr. Urizar I'm going to tell you that, with regard to the cuts in Catalonia, do some come from Madrid and have to do with autonomous financing? Yeah. But let us not be mistaken: the cuts in Catalonia are a consequence of the policies of Convergence and Union, eh? They are a consequence of the policies of Convergence and Union and its corruption, now the majority partners of the Catalan process. And the cuts prevail, because in Catalonia the left and the right have agreed, once again putting the national much above the social (very above the social), agreeing the left with a right as corrupt as that of Madrid, and thus making, prioritizing the national over the social and not interlacing it, prevail all this series of violations of rights and violations over our public services that are not being reversed in Catalonia. And for our part, of course, we will continue in these demands and we will continue to demand that all the cuts that are happening in public services in Catalonia, in education and in health mainly be reversed. Eta Egibar yellowish, the zero duck, and! Zer the duck! What a piece of paper, with the stabbing of ICU partners posing as the good part of nationalism, the sensible and moderate part of nationalism. Doing that approach you've been doing for two or three weeks, doing the defense that has been done today from the process on your part... Tela! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u23	You forced me out! Man, that's the scheme you've fallen into, this manic game of bad good-catalan Basques at a certain time, and the other way around. Catalan knows what's in the game and it's in that manifecial thing I've been talking about. It's a key for questioning, referendum. Some of us have positions. You too, right here in Madrid in Catalonia. What I know is that in Catalonia you signed the manifest, which means that you acknowledge that Katalunia has the right to decide. Then, what will be the exercise of it? Well, I won't tell you what you're going to be together or with, but if we agree to this point there is something. I suppose that, independently of this nationality of our people, I think, in the self-organization of this country, if it be asserted by the majority of this Chamber, there is something in it. It's what I'm trying to say with this... Tell Mr. Urizar my concern. For some one would say: When your opponent is out of line, it's better for you. We're worried, we're worried. And I'll tell you what our concern is. Because then it's in the papers. What we want to know is really... and the power of self-governence had its course in the previous law. We've arranged a space or a place between September for Podemos to contribute to it, and if each political party wants to have its own for the day. Each must think for himself. But what can happen in other places, what will be the effect of it in us, besides the knowledge of it, begin to write a formula. Why the documents you put in self-organization don't at least look like a career sheet to go far away. Not even from a distance. If you wish to examine the extent of what is going on in other places, say, demand, but begin to define the position which is its own. I know white paper makes a lot of fun, a lot more fun. Well, start writing, then.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote, the original text of the proposition as well as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 17. The contrary, 57; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u25	So, not allowed original text. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as the parliamentary band of Podemos, which is to be made for the return of the clauses of the soil with regard to the ease of the people. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that has made the proposal, is Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos team, to present himself to the initiative, and to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning. To-day we shall discuss another proposition of the law given by the Podemos, which is just about the flat tiles. And, fortunately, I must say that we have a vast deal of agreement, and that we present this vast agreement to the whole meeting. In 2009, the crisis was at a terrible moment, the rate of unemployment rising and going up and up, and that year was the beginning of social reductions. At that moment the affairs of most of the bank and chests began, and at that moment, not on the other hand, the floors appeared in the contract. For one reason only: the banks and the boxes wanted to earn more and more. Thousands of people have been injured by these flats of soil and have been fighting against them for many years, by associations working for the rights of consumers, and, for example, not to be fired by different platforms. After many years of fighting for individuals, consumer organizations, anti-discharge platforms, the Supreme Court in 2013 ruled that these clauses were abusive (more than forty banks and boxes were affected by these clauses), abusive and untransparent, but had a..., gabezia bat zeukan sententzia horrek, eta hori zen the lack of retroactivity. This lack of retroactivity was later resolved by the Court of Justice of the European Union (a little while ago, on 21 December 2016), which said that that judgment was not subject to Community law, and therefore facilitated the retroactivity of the Supreme Court's judgment, benefiting thousands and thousands of people in the State and thousands of people here in Euskadi. At that time, it is true that the Government of the State quite promptly adopted a decree-law, in January, to regulate the process of claiming and returning the amounts that were collected improperly by the banking entities. And while it is true that this government was quick on this issue, we think – and therefore we do not welcome that decree as a whole either – that this decree has important shortcomings. For example, to provide banks, instead of returning only and exclusively the raw money – in cash, as could be said in plain form – that can be exchanged for banking products. If the banks had the happy occurrence of the ground clauses with the sole objective of earning more money in a time of crisis also in their balance sheets – although not so much, of course, as for the citizenry –, one can honestly think that, with honorable exceptions, many of them are thinking of offering products of dubious profitability to customers, and so is also being expressed to consumer organisations by citizens. Also, this royal decree does not oblige banks to communicate directly to potential beneficiaries this possibility of returning money. We think we need to be more demanding with banking in this regard. They have swindled thousands and thousands of people, there are several sentences that support it, and we think that from the government you have to be much more demanding with them. The banking system, as you know, was rescued with more than €61 billion. The Spanish Banking Association itself says that the return of the ground clauses can amount to around 3 billion. I think it is not so much for the entire banking system, and I think that every individual return to each family or to every working person who has been affected by the ground clauses can mean a lot. What for a few – which are banks – is not so much, for people and families can be a lot. Other elements that also remain in a way in which, in our view, we believe that banks can have the dominant position are the calculation of amounts unduly paid by citizens, because within the extra-judicial mechanism of resolution of the return of the ground clauses it is established that banks are the ones that calculate that amount. If the customer does not agree to this amount and no agreement is reached and is brought to trial, only if the bank loses the customer will not have to pay the costs. We understand that if on the coasts we are talking about 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 euros, for many citizens it can be a risk of losing a certain amount of money, that for the banks, I say again, is not at all broken in their results account. On the one hand, therefore, we welcome that judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but we are critical of many of the contents of that royal decree-law. And now, speaking also of the powers of the Basque Government and of the role of the Government itself and of this Parliament, this transaction that, as they have, we have reached between four parliamentary groups is to expand and improve the services of Kontsumobide, the Basque Consumer Institute. We know that we are working, it is true that there is a section on the website, and that municipal and territorial offices have this information, but we think that much more can be done and much better can be done as well, and also take advantage of the fact that an issue that affects so many citizens, thousands and thousands of people in Euskadi, can also be an acquittal for this body to be better known in our community. It is therefore necessary to deploy this body, this advisory service, through the municipal offices themselves, through the territorial offices, but we also think that, as for so many other things, institutional propaganda is also being made, the media, especially the public, should also be a speaker of the services of Kontsumobide, of the services that we can offer to our citizens. Because we need, as I said, to extend advice to citizens, also mediation between those affected and affected and banking entities... Because, I insist, the banking entities even with this royal decree-law are in a position of strength vis-à-vis the citizens, and we think that from the public administrations we have to help these people. And also, as a consumer body, to promote measures to control the products that are being offered to customers in Euskadi, and also to be more proactive in analysing them, in receiving such complaints from citizens, and also in channelling such complaints from products of dubious legitimacy or dubious value to those citizens, which also encourage sanctions measures if they so require. We ended this transaction with a proposal that for us, from our parliamentary group Elkarrekin We can, of course, remain short, but we wanted to confine it to the proposal we were bringing today, which is the reform of the Mortgage Law. Obviously – and I take this opportunity to say here today – we argue that in this reform of the Mortgage Law and of all the laws regulating housing in the State, and also in the different autonomous communities, we should introduce very clear measures, such as the ban on evictions, or the amortization of debt with the delivery of housing, or the tax ban on evictions in first homes. Of course I do. But, focusing – and we wanted to focus on this specific issue; we are going to bring forward initiatives in this regard as well – we have managed to reach an agreement between the four parliamentary groups so that, as urgently as possible, and also in as much as possible, greater controls and transparency on mortgage products will be adopted in Congress. It seems to us essential that this initiative, which is to be adopted today in the Basque Parliament, be taken by the parliamentary groups that we sign it to the Congress of Deputies, and that our groups also train it there, and fight for it to be approved in terms of more control, more transparency, in order to make it easier for citizens that their mortgage services or the need to make a mortgage be made in a much more transparent way, in a way with far more controls, and that the rights of citizens be guaranteed. I am therefore finishing by saying once again that we welcome the agreement that we have reached for this simple, concrete and clear compromise on the subject of the ground clauses, and I insist that the parliamentary groups that we have signed will have to fight in Congress so that this is done in the way that we have adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u27	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, as set out in the proposal and as stated here, the soil clauses set a minimum threshold below which the variable interest rate cannot be placed, and as from 2009, as a result of the successive downsizing of the euribor, the activation of that soil led to a proliferation of demands calling for the nullity of those clauses. And last December's judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union put on the table a complex reality that affects a good number of citizens. The Government of Spain and the General Courts have taken initiatives precisely to address the problems arising from the application of mortgage legislation, and the progress in this area, as has also been said here, has come from the regulation adopted in Europe regarding consumer protection and from rulings by both national and European courts. It is true, as the proposer has said, that the Supreme Court in 2013 declared the nullity of the ground clauses in the signing of the mortgages, but limited the retroactivity of that nullity of the ground clauses, and different national courts questioned this jurisprudence of the Supreme Court before the High Court of Justice of the European Union, presenting various preliminary questions. And so, three and a half years later, on December 21, 2016, a judgment is handed down stating that the clause is null, that is, that it has never existed, and that, therefore, the situation of fact and law must be restored. In view of the foreseeable situation that the European Court's ruling would lead to an increase in claims from affected consumers by requesting the restitution of unduly paid quantities, the Central Government considered it necessary and urgent to adopt a simple and rapid procedure allowing for an agile and satisfactory solution for the consumer. He assumed the need to create a framework for a court decision that could affect more than a million and a half Spaniards. While it is true that this is a regulation between individuals, it is no less true that the Government should intervene, first, as it said, because of the large number of citizens who were going to be affected, and secondly because it would have an important impact on a public service such as that of justice. And it is done, as has been said here, quickly, since the judgment is of December 2016 and is answered in January through the Royal Decree Law 1/2017, in which, with a minimum regulation, a channel of voluntary character for the consumer is established that allows him to obtain a quick response to his claims, reaching an agreement with the credit institution for the restitution of the amounts unduly collected by it. The main objective, as I said, of that royal decree was to establish such an alternative complaint mechanism to the filing of judicial claims. And it is voluntary (repeat, voluntary) for the affected consumer, but mandatory for credit institutions, which must start it within one month. The measures provided for in this decree facilitate the restoration of consumer rights as soon as possible, thus avoiding the need to resort to a judicial process that is prolonged over time, but that does, leaving the right to effective judicial protection safe. And if you don't want to go to this voluntary process, you can go to the courts, in your case. That is to say, what this decree does is to create, first, a preventive route, that out-of-court route, and also this out-of-court complaint procedure is free of charge. On the other hand, as I said, it is mandatory for banks, which in no more than a month must inform – and this is laid down in the decree itself – the affected customers so that they know about the existence of a new complaint system. And that is reflected in the royal decree, the obligation to report. And the process cannot last longer than three months. There is also a substantial reduction in notarial and registrar tariffs resulting from contract novations that may result from the adoption of compensatory measures other than cash return. That here we have talked about the possibility of not making the return in cash, but that is only if the customer wants it, because the customer is given the possibility of replacing the return in cash with other products, but if the customer does not want those products, and wants the return in cash, the return in cash must be made. And in the event that a judicial process is finally reached this rule also regulates the judicial costs to encourage agreements between the consumer and the entity, and that it is resolved in the most appropriate way. And this is because what has been determined is that the entity is imposed a penalty on costs in the event that the judgment is economically more favourable than what was originally offered by the entity, or the entity does not have to bear the costs in the event of a breach prior to the judicial response. Therefore, it is not true that the judicial process is closed (it has not been said here, but in the Congress of Deputies it was established, that the judicial process was closed), or that financial institutions are protected, because neither is it true. What is done is to penalise financial institutions if they are contrary to good faith. The decree enables – here the follow-up has been discussed, but that is also provided for in the decree –..., the decree enables a monitoring body, enables the Government to establish a body for monitoring, monitoring and evaluating complaints, in which consumers and lawyers will be present. And this decree also regulates the tax treatment, specifically in the IRPF, of the amounts received by the return of the unduly paid to the credit institutions, in order to achieve the neutrality of this measure and that consumers are not affected by taxes. This is a tax treatment which is in fact the responsibility of the various outlaws, who will have to take the appropriate measures, as has been established. With regard to the amendment of the Mortgage Act, it should be noted that the Government is already working on a new mortgage bill. That, just as this decree was agreed with different groups (it was a decree that was agreed to up to four groups in the Congress of Deputies), also with the Mortgage Law is being discussed with the different groups, with the aim of this bill increasing the transparency of any clause in a mortgage contract. Because what is at stake is to improve the functioning of the mortgage system, so that the financing to buy a house can continue to flow, as has always been done in Spain. With regard to the various measures that have been put in place here in the amendment – well, we were offered the amendment yesterday at the last minute – some of the issues are unique here. I mean, I don't see Congress of Deputies calling on the deputies or urging Kontsumobide, but good. Some of the issues set out in that amendment can be claimed here, in the Basque Parliament, not in the Congress of Deputies. Other issues can be claimed. And many issues are not that they can be claimed, they are already being done. It's just, like I tell you, they're already done. Here some (the proposer, and I'm sure they will come too) will criticize the royal decree, but, of course, what needs to be recognized is that the Spanish Government reacted quickly (I say, the sentence was in December, and in January the royal decree-law was already in place) and giving a procedure whereby, in an equally swift, agile, voluntary manner and protecting their interests, consumers can recover what is unduly charged. In addition to congratulating us on the sentence..., I know it costs a lot and that is why it is not put in the amendment, but we should also congratulate ourselves on that royal decree-law, as I say agreed with many groups, and it solves the issue for many consumers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u29	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Gather the Representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ottagon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u30	Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. One of the most important problems and concerns of society is to acquire a house, and to hold on to it what is most important. The great speculation and excessive prices of housing are the conditions established by the prekance of labor, unemployment, and credit institutions, amongst many others, which cause a large population sector to be unable to exercise the right of the housing, or to be unable to maintain it after they have acquired it. It's the daily reality of a too big group of citizens. We have frequently given frequent disputes in this house, connected with the right of housing, and this other proposition, as it were, which is to be made for the return of the soil to the people who are now concerned with it, is to be disputed. Between the factors which make the housing possible, or which influence it, there is a burden set by the conditions imposed by the banks on mortgage levels. The gravest part of these burdens is the clause of the minimum of interest, known as the clause of the floor. There have been thousands of people who have been fooled by banks, by tricks which the consumers could not recognize. It is among the tricks which the financial institutions have made use of to increase their gain to the prejudice of their customers. This Klausula has prevented the thousands of people from profiting from the descents of the last year's reference index. Against what they thought they had agreed with the bank, their contracts have become loans with fixed interest on these clauses. The Supreme Court, on the 9th of May, 2013, has judged four years ago, in the sentence 241/2013, abused, and abolished certain financial institutions, the flats of the floors placed on the mortgages. But the financial institutions applied this clause which obliged them to pay back only after the trial was given. But the trial of December 21, 2016, of the Court of Justice of the European Union, turned back that time. And he forces them to return their previous amount by accepting the whole restorer. We were glad to receive this verdict. Because the financial institutions which have been applied to the mortgages have to restore the money which they have earned in years to their clients who have suffered the consequences of those unjust clauses. And here I would like to make a slight remark, there are hundreds of people who have suffered the same injustice, but who are not protected. This sentence of the Justice of the European Union is founded on the 93/13 Dialectic of the European Council, and the distinction which this directive makes from the beginning is not at all correct, for it distinguishes the individuals and the professionals of the consumers. The professionals are found helpless, because this directive only affects the individual of the consumer. They're on the same level and all professionals have the same treatment, whether they're a stock company, or an electrician autonomous, or rather the loans that these companies have signed. And many of these, and many of them, have flats on the floor, often on worse conditions; and these ill-conditions, of course, do not suffer the enpresences that co-operate in the stocks. The change of this direction is required, or another directive is directed to enpresies, which will also protect the professionals for these bank practices. But I admit this is not an easy matter, this would be a different discussion. But, returning to the subject, having known the sentence, the Spanish Government, conscious of the judicial prosecutions which followed, had been obliged to regulate a proceedings for the prosecution beyond the trial. On January 20th, the Decreeed King 1/2017 King, the Consultants for the Zolu Klausul, who have been highly censured, especially from the congregations of consumers. They all agree that he does not force banks to do anything more than consumers. I'm not going to start now because the order of points is not being reviewed, not the time, not the place it belongs to. And Mr Martínnez has given some examples which we fully share. But I'll give you a little example of what's going on. The financial organization tells the injured client that the amount of extra money he paid for the clausul app is X. He proposes that, in order to reach an agreement, and avoid legal means, he will restore 80%. The fact is that he's lying, he tells his client that he owes him a lot less than his share. As the calculation of this number is not at all easy for any citizen, the injured man believes and considers it positive to recover 80% and avoid judicial means. This decree adopted by the Spanish Government allows banks to make such a fuss. And what happens in May 2013 after the Supreme Court has pronounced the first sentence, the way some banks took it? In many cases, and in many cases, they had come to an agreement with the injured; This is why we wanted to add a point to the proposition as described by the Polydemos billings of law. Let this counsel and intermediary to be directed to inform the injured, why they have a right to it, and if the cases which are found require it, to transmit the informers. We agreed entirely together with the law which was at first introduced, and I am glad to admit that this medium, which at last presents itself to us, is more perfect than that which was first introduced, richer. Above all, I should like to distinguish the last point, which has been introduced in this middle-class correction by the Basque Socialists and Eubertarians, as soon as possible, in order to change the law, in order to prevent such conditions, the mechanism of the vicissitation of the mortgage steps in the future. Miss Llanos has already informed us that they are working on a draft. So I'm glad to hear that, too. We'll see what the change will be, or what arrangement will be. But, well, we'll wait. It's not the only clauses that are deemed abuse. There's the clause of the advanced deadline, which, for instance, is highly abuse. On the basis of these, mortgage abuses have been given, and it is only two months since the Supreme Court has asked the Court of Justice of Europe whether this clause, which can continue with mortgage regulations, was invalid. They did the same with the affair of the Vultures, and it is only an attempt to postpone the archivation, and not to execute the law. In this case, we must wait for the decision of the European Justice Court. This is another instance of the conduct of the Spanish State, another instance, which shows that a small instance in its greatness, one more reason, is necessary to all jurisdiction. We must be masters from this point of view to protect our fellow-citizens in order to regulate all the measures which must be applied to them. The citizen's concerns are also ours, even if it's the opposite here. And that's why we have to have complete independence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u31	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u32	It is up to us to discuss a non-legislative proposal, according to its title, to facilitate the citizens affected by the clauses only the necessary procedures for the return of the amounts paid extra by this limitation imposed by the banking institutions on certain mortgage loans. It has already been said, it is not a new debate, nor can it be said that the institutions have been neutral, as mentioned in the justification of the original initiative, in the light of the different pronouncements made by the courts in this matter. I am not going to enter, even though it was also expected by some intervener that we entered, to discuss here the contents or defects of the Royal Decree Law 1/2017. I believe that this is a debate that has already taken place in the Congress of Deputies, which is the appropriate forum for this. There have also been some issues here that have been highlighted by other speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor, so I think I will focus more on the scope of the Basque Government. Because it was said that two areas were being urged, the Congress of Deputies on the one hand, the Government of the nation, and the Basque Government on the other, something that is not strange either, that in a non-legislative proposal it is being established to urge different areas, is it not? As regards the scope of the Basque Government, as I told you, from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption through Kontsumobide, as they have said very well, there has been work on advice, arbitration and sanctions in the claims for bank ground clauses since 2012, the date from which 621 consultations and 256 claims have been heard in this area. In all the claims that have been made by the Basque Consumer Institute, mediation with the institution has been carried out, and in 45 per cent of the cases, this claim has been closed with agreement between the parties. The Basque Consumer Institute lists on its website, as some spokesperson has also mentioned, a special section providing information on ground clauses, recommendations on how to act to know if it is affected by such a clause (since the revision of the policy of the signed mortgage loan, passing through the criteria that are established to declare the clause invalid due to lack of transparency), or the procedure to be followed to claim before credit institutions. Procedure which, by the way, was not modified by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in December 2016, which has triggered us to speak again in this Parliament today about the ground clauses. And this is because, as those who have spoken before me have explained very well, and in a very small reference, the Court of Justice of the European Union has done with this ruling has been to correct the approach that in 2013 established the Spanish Supreme Court, which was the obligation of financial institutions to return to consumers and users the amounts that they had paid extra for the application of these clauses, which they considered null, but set a time limit, which was the date on which the court handed down its judgment, that is, May 2013. What the European Court has come to say now is simply that this temporary limitation is not in accordance with Union law, and that this does not guarantee unlimited protection for consumers, but is limited, and therefore states that all the money collected must be reinstated, both before and after. What was discussed in this Parliament was the retroactivity of the complaints that were being made and since when. Because that was also discussed in different institutions. Immediately to the issuance of this judgment, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs echoed the judgment, and in December 2016, and through the public media, reminded users and consumers of the work they do to pay attention to complaints and arbitration with banks and boxes, and made Kontsumobide available to accompany them in the actions they want to take to claim the return of money from the ground clauses. The work you do is not new, I imagine you know it. It focuses on informing users of the procedure to be followed in the case of claims prior to, logically, the judicial process; conducting mediation and arbitration proceedings to try to reach an agreement with the entity; and ultimately, if there are indications that the bank or cashier has been able to commit an offence, opening a punitive file to determine its liability and, if necessary, imposing a sanction on it. This is also not new, although we also incorporate it, at the request of EH Bildu, into the compromise amendment. Because I have to remind you that it was a few years ago, in 2012, with a socialist councilwoman at the head of Kontsumobide, when a box was first sanctioned for using an abusive roof/soil clause, a sanction that was subsequently ratified by the administrative litigation courts when this sanctioned entity came to seek amparo. Nor has this Parliament been neutral on this issue, and has taken various initiatives in the field of soil clauses which have always led to the agreement of the various groups, as is going to happen today. To mention one, the comprehensive plan for the inspection of credit institutions operating in this autonomous community and which, on a socialist proposal, was adopted in this Parliament in 2013, with a clear objective: that the Government should have an active attitude – here too you have claimed it – in protecting users and consumers, so that from Kontsumobide it would be verified whether these financial institutions were acting on their own initiative to eliminate or to stop applying the so-called ground clauses, and, if they were to maintain them, whether they applied sufficient transparency so that the consumer party was informed of their existence, their scope and their consequences. From that action, from that inspection plan, fourteen sanctioning files were derived. As I have told you before and as I will remind you now, as far as our group is concerned, and I imagine that most of those who have preceded me and those who will come after me, I believe there has been no, nor is there any neutrality of our institutions on the subject of ground clauses. On this subject, as they have said on other occasions, we have managed to reach a compromise, there will be majority support from this House on this issue, and we have agreed five points. We value the sentence positively. I believe that we have all agreed on that, and so far we have intervened. We call on the Government to boost the means of control and improvement in the transparency of financial institutions. We were told by the spokesman of the People's Party who is already... Well, what the Royal Decree-Law says is that the government is empowered to carry out this monitoring, control and evaluation body. What we want is for you to push it. If it is also in your will to do so, there will be no difficulty in supporting it either. I think it is to this extent, but it is that there are consumers and lawyers involved in this body, it has to make a six-monthly report, and it will be interesting to know that this actual decree and procedure that has been put into the hands of consumers is working properly. We also ask for the impetus of means of control and improvement, as I said. That Kontsumobide continues to implement information and advisory services to affected persons? It's done, yeah. Can it be improved? Yeah, you can always get better. And, therefore, we also support that it be incorporated into the transactional. And finally, we provide for advice to those affected by these clauses on the tax treatment of the amounts received, and we urge you to do so by the Foreign Minister. Already the Royal Decree 1/2017 establishes the treatment, in common regime, of how to deal with the amounts that are perceived by users and consumers in this matter. That has already been ex officio, through the bipartite governments of the three outlaws, assumed by the Basque fiscal regulations themselves, and we should therefore say that it has not been neutral-neutral. I believe that in any case the important thing is the consensus that we have reached on these five points, to reach a broad agreement on this matter, to follow with users and consumers, and therefore, given the interventions that have so far preceded me, I believe that it would be possible for this amendment to come out not by a majority, but by unanimity. Because here, in any case, we are not criticizing, in the text that comes as a device, nobody's actions, but we are saying that we are continuing to push for measures that support and side with users and consumers, in the face of abusive attempts by banking institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u34	Yes, thank you, ma'am, Congressman, chief of staff, chief officers, Mr President, good morning. At the end of the 1990s there were two axioms that marked people's financial culture, and it was that banks never lose money, and that the value of housing rose sine die, except in the worst scenarios, when it possibly stagnated or fell in a very smooth, very gradual way. These were the basic principles by which the private investment of the Basque middle class was governed, that what it did was to buy the house they owned, the habitual residence, and in the best cases, in cases where they had sufficient saving capacity, or they either invested this money in shares in the form of shares, in blue chips, in low-risk shares, which were considered low-risk, of Ibex 35, or it was invested in a second residence, generally, in our provinces, it was usually done in Cantabria and La Rioja. As was evident in the economic crisis that we lived after, those two phrases that we had heard from people who were theoretically prudent (I one of them heard it from my grandmother's mouth, for example), in the end, the two axioms were swept away from the reality and consciousness of the people, since the bank not only lost money, but it was ruined in many cases, and the value of the house was not a soft landing, but it was a very abrupt descent from 2007, which is when the crisis began in the United States and shortly after in Europe. Therefore, it was the same crisis that erased these two axioms, these two assertions, from the popular ideary. Who was to say, for example, to a small shareholder of the People's Bank, that at that time they were champions of good doing and was one of the most conservative investments that could be made, that their participation in the year 91 twenty-seven years later (i.e. today) is worth the same or a little less? I'm not going to spend much longer on making a chronicle of all the events that we've had during the time of the crisis, but I'll tell you a few stories about the fact that we've been in financial history. Banka, CAM, the Caja Navare case, almost all the Spanish boxes, which are "tarjetas black" and pretend thieves, and which we daily see on television, I will give you my name. And finally, the abuse clauses between the floor tiles we're discussing today. We cannot place all evils in the same rank; all evils are not equal, but they are manifest of one thing; They're a show of the amazing oversight that has been made in Spain. And I ask myself a question: and where were CNMV (Comison Nacional del Mercado de Valores), and Banco de Escula? What were they looking at? What was the result? Bad result, bad outcome. We have lately discovered two instances of this want of review and supplication, which have not been mentioned before, and both have been given in January this year. First, the Courts of the People of Spain, straight enough, has been asked by another indubitable institution to improve the designations and charges of the Spanish bank. We can say, "WOLS" to the raven ass, right? They're both acting like one. In this case, at least, we know that the inspection of the larger banks, the 25 great banks of Europe, is now made out of Europe, and I'm personally glad, especially because there's a lot of doubt at the inspection from Madrid. In the Law of Hippoctec, we may find another instance of this negligence in the Law of Hippoctec before mentioned. Europe has often shamed the State of Spain by decrees and remarks, because the legislation which we now possess does not conform to the laws of Europe in many articles. So we give it an important point, we correct it, and we have signed most of these groups, and the Spanish Courts are under the jurisdiction of the Galapagos Courts, to have a new law published by the Tribunals. It's no good to live in a year of 2017, to walk like this, with a poor regulation. It is necessary, as I have said, to have a new law of mortgages, which will consider the European law, and which will confine the scene in a simple manner, and protect the rights of the customers, and divert the doubts and fears of the banks. After this somewhat generic argument, which speaks of the mismonitoring carried out by the Spanish public institutions, I would like to land on the specific point of today, which are the ground clauses, clauses declared abusive, with reservations first in 2013, by the Spanish Supreme Court, establishing a non-retroactivity, and more forcefully and clearly afterwards by the European courts, which eliminate this principle of retroactivity. Shortly after it became clear that the ground clauses were abusive, and given the prospect of an avalanche of complaints that were expected in the courts and that could collapse the courts, a real decree was adopted in the Madrid Courts, 1/2017, to which all those who preceded me in the word, which sought to remove the claims for those clauses from the judicial sphere, establishing a voluntary and non-exclusive way of the court, facilitating a complaint procedure, a way that intended to be more agile, quick and free than the litigator by criminal means. This decree pushes, encourages the bank to return on a voluntary basis the amounts paid extra under the ground clause, using for this purpose as a coercive measure the judicial costs, which is an undisputable amount, especially if we take into account that there are a million and a half in the Spanish State. In Euskadi, of course, there are some less. It is true that we would have liked, and so we tried to negotiate in Madrid, by my colleague Idoia Sagastizabal, it is true that we would have liked a real decree that included the bank's obligation to proactively warn the consumer, and that the flow of information was not reversed, of their rights and the calculation of the return of these amounts, but, well, it was not included in the final text. And finally we ask, as the previous speakers have done, that control measures be exercised on the functioning of the royal decree, which today, as I have heard, has not been put into effect. Finally, I'd like to emphasize the work he's doing for the consulate in this area. Mrs. Castelo has given the data, I won't repeat it again. Offering advice and arbitration to citizens, not only on the floors, but also on other abuse clauses, as I have grafted them in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bar Barbars. Passing on the answers, the representative of Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u36	Thank you. The truth is that I did not intend to intervene beyond welcoming the agreement, but it is that, well, then, we have to rebut some of the things that have been said here on an ideological level, apart from the agreement. Because, Mrs Llanos, we were critical and we are critical with the royal decree-law, because to facilitate the role of banks for example in the calculation, or that the information is voluntary (because it does not speak of individualized, that royal decree speaks of doing some information campaigns), it is so much like saying that it is to put the fox to care for the chickens, because it is evident that a banking entity has a position of strength, in front of a person who has a mortgage that has been affected by the ground clause. That you have enough to pay off the mortgage of your first home, as above having been paying for a long time more money than you should and beyond the already abusive interests. Beyond all that. Because also the issue of products... That is, instead of facilitating and expediting, as the decree says, that it is paid in cash, or that it is entered in the account, facilitating that it can be converted into financial products that kind of situation what it does is that it offers citizens things possibly (yes, we distrust the banks, with honorable exceptions), probably products of dubious profitability for customers, such as preference, or long-term investment funds to older people, etc., etc. That's why we think it would be much better, easier, and much more agile if you were to enter in metallic, if you were to enter in, or whatever. And a shade, Mrs Castelo, and with affection, without discussion: I believe that everything that affects Euskadi can be brought into this House, and the royal decree-law also affects Basque citizens, and I believe that we can also bring it here. But we've also been in that sense enough..., I don't know if the word is generous, or we've all been smart to see what united us in implementing that real decree-law of control and transparency measures, and that's what I'm staying with. But I do think that it is necessary that these kinds of things that affect Euskadi, such as the debate on the other day of CETA, or the debates that have and will have on the TTIP and other treaties that affect Basque citizens, can also be discussed here. And, Mr. Arruabarrena, we have reached an agreement, but the truth is that I do not agree with the first part of your intervention, because what has failed is the axiom – that is an axiom – of popular capitalism, of financial capitalism, of speculative capitalism, of that capitalism which saw its rate of profit reduced and what it did is to speculate with the money of everyone, that feast of cheap credit and speculation. And those who have been ruined in this country have been thousands and thousands of citizens, because the banks, as I know, have broken some, to others we have rescued them with 61 billion euros, another has been rescued, in this particular case Bankia, that I say again and take advantage of all the debates to say that the state remains to make public banking... But the banks that have broken down, each and every one of them have been absorbed by other banks, the workers to a large extent dismissed, and the managers relocated to banks or new mergers, or to other types of financial institutions, almost all of them. And also here in Euskadi, if we start talking about failed financial and speculative capitalism, however well the balance sheets go, we should also talk about Kutxabank, leader of evictions in Euskadi. We'd have to talk about that. The balance sheets will be as positive as we want, and I will not rebut the financial balances and the economic results, but those balances and those economic results are made on the basis of products as well, for example, as ground clauses, or mortgages with abusive clauses, and being, on the other hand, leader in evictions and with very great criticism by the anti-discharge platforms that it is of the banks (in this case Kutxabank) here, of Euskadi, which least facilitate the mediation processes. Therefore, and I conclude, I agree with the agreement that we have reached between the four groups, and I suppose it will not be against, at least in most of the contents, the People's Party, but, well, I wanted to go out and discuss some of the arguments that have been commented on, which I think we are far from reaching an agreement in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u37	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscal Group Singulary's representative, Mrs Llanos... From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u38	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. It is true that here, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, it has taken advantage, for example, of the Basque Nationalist Party, half the time, rather than talking about the initiative, to criticize the central government, but, well, that is not new either, and it is something that is usually done. But I did want to make some point in relation to the decree. Man, I understand that putting in value measures of the Government of Spain is not used here, but it is a good decree. And when it is said that it favors banks, I, for example, want to read article 3, which says: "Credit institutions must implement a prior complaint system..."; "Credit institutions must ensure that this complaint system is known to all consumers...". They have to carry out the calculation, they have to inform the consumer by disaggregating the calculation, and that the amounts corresponding to interest appear in that breakdown. And in the second additional provision, when it speaks of the possibility of a measure other than cash being agreed, "in this case the credit institution shall provide an assessment to enable it to know the effect of the compensatory measure and to grant it a period of fifteen days to show its conformity". Moreover, "it will require that the consumer has received sufficient and adequate information on the amount to be returned and the replacement measure". Then there are obligations for the banks, and it is much more beneficial for the consumer, because it prevents him from having to go to court and allows him to collect much faster and faster. Then I understand that putting into value something that the Spanish Government does here is not used to, and less from groups like Podemos, but, of course, I am going to vote in favour of this amendment. I did not expect them to include that congratulations to the Government of Spain on the speed and content of that royal decree-law, but I do want that congratulations on record from this group. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u39	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ottagon, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u40	Yeah, I'll be quick about it, too. It's obvious that there are differences in our minds reading the situation. That's clear. But I am truly glad that we have been able to arrive at the least agreement, and I think it is enough to congratulate you, that the sole object of all of us has been to defend and defend our interests in the defence of our popular Basque interests; it would be better if we had more opportunity, but, well, we have been able to carry some measures forward to our present level. So thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u41	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u42	For I had no intention of using the second turn either! Mr. Iñigo, I think you misunderstood me. I'm the only one I've come to say... I haven't questioned what everyone means when they come out to that rostrum. What I have said is that what is the position of the Socialist Party with regard to Royal Decree Law 1/2017 was perfectly explained in Congress, and that I thought I would focus on the most part of the autonomous community, because other colleagues had already focused on that area. The only thing I would like to congratulate is that this, rather than going out by a majority, comes out unanimously, because I believe that the important thing is basically that: to get to know where we have the points of union, to be able to give up each of the parties we brought in, to reach a compromise, to be able to join all the groups in the House, and to give a clear message that we are alongside users and consumers in the face of the abuses that banking entities want to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Finally, Eubertarians, Mr. Bareas, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u44	With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. A vast majority of this chamber has signed the medium, and therefore we are in a kind of rhetorical sphere beyond measure. I'll say it over and over again. Martinez jauna, I give you back the affection that you have dedicated to us to tell you three facts. First of all, if the decree is so bad... Man, the decree was published on January 20. Zuen zuzenketa otsailaren 28years. They had one month and eight days to analyze it, and it does not appear in justification or in the non-law proposition. Therefore, in the end, devote three quarters of the speech and half the time of reply, and not devote a single word (not a line: a single word) to the non-law proposition, it draws my attention. And secondly, Kutxabank in Euskadi, as you have said (the BBK, the Kutxa and the Vital), has no ground clauses. He doesn't have them. I would therefore ask you for a little bit of rigour in the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u45	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EHG, and the middle-line correction that has been signed by the Euzbertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u46	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, find Casanova Alonso EHGGDs, about the EAE work and the prospects of collective negotiations, plans, and proposals. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Casanova, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u47	Hello, good morning, everyone. To-day we shall speak of collective negotiations and relations of labour, and, happily enough, we shall make a treaty. I think that a proper and good arrangement will arise from this chamber, and if it is the reason to congratulate it, especially considering the starting-point, which is the state of the matter which we are to deal with today. The collective negotiation is now blocked in ours, and consequently we are involved in a process of extreme platitude of labor conditions. We've had a chance in this Chamber itself, and it's only to take any media, in order to prove here that these assertions are real. Some of the facts, because we have often spoken of it, but these fat words, in order to establish and demonstrate the subject from the method of view, are actually real and, as it were, demonstrated the thesis. At the present day there are only 60% of the euscal workers under the covering of a convent. These are 75% women, only 1,15 convictions, 18 new and strong. The Prefect is on his way now, about a quarter of the workers are out of the budget, 24% of the time. From all the signing contracts, you don't get to %3 of fixed contracts, full-time job. Even wages are getting too conspicuous back. Today 25% of the population is worth less than 1,000 euros and less than half of the population or the workers. Several investigations have been made the evolution of the purchase capacity for measurement in recent years, and the result is the same in all cases: the laborers are losing their purchase power in a light way in recent years. Based on different sources and different intervals of time, though the data changes slightly, we may mention reports made by the Adecco company, made by ELA union or official UE high school, and they all place that loss between 3.4%. So the workers are getting less and less affordable in the past few years. It is also changing the division between capital and labour, and it is changing, because it is logical, and easily follows from this general state, that it is capital. If seven years ago, if in 2010 the distribution of income between capital and labour was 49% to employees and 51% to capital, today we find that there has been a very serious imbalance in favour of capital and the situation is 46-53. That is, of all the wealth that is produced in our community, an increasing part of that wealth falls on the income of capital, and a smaller part is distributed among workers through wages. This leads us to make a finding, if we want to be somewhat theoretical in nature, but I think it is important, and it is that we must note that there is a crisis in the traditional systems of measuring the health of an economy. If we once looked at the evolution of the gross domestic product or at the unemployment rate, we could have an approximate picture – with all the criticisms that can be made of the gross domestic product as an indicator, which actually has its shortcomings, but we basically measured the health of an economy, and depending on whether GDP grew or rose we were talking about recession or we were talking about economic goodness – today we cannot be so categorical in the interpretation of these macroeconomic data. Gross domestic product and its evolution are increasingly telling us less about the real situation of the economy in a society, at least the economy of a majority. And that is because in recent years the traditional mechanisms of redistribution of wealth are being systematically undermined, because restrictive policies are being addressed – and this is a global wave, but also here it has its echo – in the field of taxation through mechanisms of evasion, circumvention and the imposition of regressive fiscal policies (but, well, that, as it is usually said, is another separate lane, and in this Parliament we have also talked and will continue to talk a lot about taxation), but, in the aspect we are dealing with, because wages are being attacked in an express way. And then we'll see that that's also in a political context of premeditation. Therefore, there is no point in saying that there is recovery because the gross domestic product grows, if that recovery does not move to a majority, if that is a recovery simply from the bank accounts of a minority, of the richest minority. The same applies to the unemployment rate. We are told "Well, it is increasing the number of people who have work," and that is indeed so, but every time it is decreasing the guarantee of employment on the guarantee that people who have that job can cope, through their wages, with the basic needs in the material aspect of their lives. And, therefore, we are also witnessing the emergence of this phenomenon of poor or quasi-poor workers. That the best social policy is employment gets a little lame when we understand that there are workers who have jobs but also have to resort to social benefits, as with the more than 12,000 people who in this situation are receiving GIR in this community. Therefore, we can have an impoverishing growth for the majority, in which macroeconomic data grow, but where the citizen on foot, the wage-earner on foot, is increasingly poor, as we have come to demonstrate with the evolution of purchasing power of wages. In this time of so-called goodness and recovery, the workers of this country have less and less purchasing power, their wages are less and less, most of them are poorer, and we have that impoverished growth and we also have the phenomenon of the poor workers. This is why we think it's essential to pursue the subject which we now refer to, and to try to make solutions, and that's what we're going to do today. We have stated that the conditions of work are going wrong, and that they are behind it the blockade of collective negotiation, and that there are reasons why there is a blockade. First, that there are legal opportunities of setting that lock, and the forms of work imposed on the Spanish Common-wealth, have given this instrument to the patricians, who have this instrument, and have it purposely given to them what they are doing, in order to set up the process which is called internal prerogative. The Spanish state is placed in a position of the subject in Europe, and it belongs to it to satisfy the wants of others by "mano de varata." For this purpose I+D, you don't need very qualified workers, but it's what you need to do, low wages, to encourage competitively by low costs and low wages. That's why the forms of work were made, and that's why we have the situation. But it is not enough, it is not enough to be a legal instrument, but there must be some one who takes advantage of those legal instruments and handles them. And if that's somebody and he's got his name in ours, and his name is pathoal and his name is Confebask. This is an anti-democratic situation because it was imposed on Madrid. It is not fair that the majority of the people here, and the majority of this parliament, as it may be shown today, should not agree with the designs and consequences of this eussacal society. And besides, it's not effective because our hundred producers are not in theory with what they want to impose on the Spanish State. So anti-democratic, it's unfair, and it's not effective. It's exactly genuine moduan, hala eta guztiz ere aplikatzen ari da. Aplikatzen ari because there are those who want to apply it in order to maximize its profits and to impose a deregulated and precarious labour market, in which these flows continue to increase which, as if it were to put a vacuum cleaner in the pocket of the workers, carry the money from their pockets to the pockets of the employers and employers. Confebask is being the implementing agent of labour reform and responsible for blocking collective bargaining and the deteriorating working conditions and wages in our community. We are also critical of the role of the government, because the government has backed up and made the wave permanently to Confebask; it has been a bad boss when it has played that role (and there is nothing more to see than that, if we talk about a precarious rate of 24%, in the administration it is 35%, or repair in conflicts like the one that is now taking place in the education system), and the government has also failed to respect the trade union world, with disheartened criticisms and out of place, and also supporting minority agreements that do not respect democratic rules of play in the trade union sphere. We're very critical, but today we've come with a deal. We didn't think it possible, and we ought to congratulate ourselves, because it was possible, and I can imagine all of us, all of us who have signed this agreement, that we shall have a part of merit. It is to me that the merit and the will of those who have signed the agreement with us is to give thanks for that. In view of this situation of obvious deterioration in the labour market and the living and working conditions of the working majority of this country, we understood from Euskal Herria Bildu that it was necessary to take the initiative from this Parliament. We have made a series of appearances of the main actors in the Committee on Labour and Justice, and we have also made an inquiry to the adviser in that area. Finally, we decided to bring in a motion in which we basically proposed four questions: an express rejection of labour reform, the request for a general increase in wages, the demand for a Basque framework of labour relations, and a direct criticism of Confebask for being responsible for much of this situation. Obviously, we understand that this agreement or proposal was better, but, as we have reached an agreement, we have logically had to incorporate wills. And we've also come to an agreement without any kind of complex. We have reached a good agreement because there was the possibility of a good agreement. An agreement which, of course, forced us to clear up certain aspects, mainly in dialectical terms, of our proposal, but which basically reflected the core of it. And in that sense, we understood that we are at a time when the situation is so serious that, rather than good debates, we are being asked for agreements from this House. We could have opted for the lucidity, for the confrontation, for leading to a glorious dialectical confrontation, but we have understood that, given the possibility of a good agreement, it is always much better than that confrontation. The agreement contains the essentials, as I said, of Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal, and it seems to us that it sends a very clear message to society as a whole, to the social actors and above all to the social agent called Confebask, who has not so far been receptive to such calls. Because the repeal of the labour reform is expressly called for, and it is recognized that this reform has caused precariousness and deterioration in working conditions. Because we are asking – and I believe this is today's headline – for a widespread rise in wages, because it is understood that this is the mechanism for a proper redistribution of wealth and for a compensation of the loss of purchasing power of wage earners in recent years. And because it is called for the blockage to be lifted to collective bargaining, and that through such collective bargaining the creation of high-quality and well-paid jobs can be undertaken. We understand that these were the fundamental aspects, and with the disaster we have in this community in the field of labour relations we understood that it was time for that message to be clarified. We are convinced that this is the best agreement that can be reached in this House, taking into account and building on the correlation of existing forces. And, therefore, we must congratulate ourselves on having been able to materialize it. It is a clear message, it is a message that although I do not mention responsibilities, because obviously I had to unite the support of different political sensibilities, I believe that the fundamental says it explicitly, and very important things also make them clear implicitly, and it is very clear who is the appeal and who is the one questioned by this agreement. The ball is on the roof of the employer, because it is the employer who is blocking collective bargaining and blocking wages. And, therefore, it is up to them and they to move. Today's agreement does not exhaust Euskal Herria Bildu's speech on the field of labour relations. We have previously expressed that we would like to verbalize, and we verbalize through the speech, the specific criticism of Confebask and also certain attitudes of the Basque Government, and we also have other issues that we will continue to demand, criticizing that role of Confebask and its level of representation and its accreditation of that representation, demanding respect for the trade union majorities, demanding a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, demanding that the Administration behave properly when it plays the role of patron, and demanding and demanding a Basque framework of labour relations that faces the stateization of labour agreements and relations, which not only from a political point of view, but also from a practical point of view, goes against the interests of workers. We think we've finally achieved more than we expected and represented a good discussion with a good deal. From now on, as I said, the ball is on the roof of the patronal. We, on our side, will continue to support the workers, to protect their claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u49	Good morning. In view of the initiative to discuss and talk about the framework of labour relations and labour legislation, our group understands, and we believe that this is also understood by other groups in the House, that labour relations have undergone profound transformations, and are all regressive, in recent years, but fundamentally through the two major labour reforms that have been made: that of 2012 of the People's Party, but also, and we believe so, that of the year 2010 that the Socialist Party did. Transformations that pursue a final objective: to reduce wages, so that companies compete on the basis of reducing labour expenditure; to reduce wages, or to lower increases than prices or productivity itself. This objective has been achieved and is being achieved through the replacement of undefined workers with more or less acceptable working conditions by temporary workers on waste contracts and under more precarious conditions. Large law firms are real lobbies, with contacts with the employer and certain politicians. And it was precisely those lobbies that dictated the latest labor reforms. These are reforms mounted on a process designed for large companies. And this is not just what our coalition says; Rafael López Parada, social judge of the High Court of Justice of Castile and León, also said this and responsible for the annulment of the ERE of the almighty Coca Cola. Those who devise these policies and those who implement them know that in order to achieve these objectives they needed to put an end to the resistance forces of the trade unions, and in particular to their ability to manoeuvre in collective bargaining, by which the working conditions of the workers are established. Therefore, one of the concrete and fundamental objectives of labour reforms was to attack and put an end to the tools available to workers to organize and cope with employers; tools that are necessary to balance the correlation of forces between employers and workers. That is why, in advance and parallel to these two labour reforms, we have also known genuine campaigns of contempt for trade unions and trade unionists, as in the darkest times of our history. And, worse, a real persecution of trade unionists for exercising fundamental rights, such as the right to strike, began. The succession of labor reforms undertaken by the last governments of the State generated three general strikes at the state level, and some more in Euskadi, to the governments of both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And these reforms have resulted, therefore, in an absolutely unbalanced model of labour relations that is favourable to the employer's side vis-à-vis the worker's side. A model which has created a state of fear in the workplace, a logical fear of the ease of dismissal, which not only falls short and subsidizes, but has largely been freed from administrative obstacles and judicial guardianship. A fear of easy dismissal, also in an environment of high unemployment rates. Every day in our companies comes true the sadly popular phrase that says: "If you don't agree, there is a queue of people waiting for your job." The old blackmail on the basis of the reserve army that Carlos Marx spoke of, to which the most basic freedom of the workers in the jobs is restricted. We have a model of labour relations that does not conceive the balance between the parties, and favours in any negotiation the unilateral decision of the employer vis-à-vis the working party. A system that weakens the organized participation of workers through their trade union organizations and seeks individualized dialogue, which we already know how it usually ends: with the phrase "Do this, or you know what there is". These labour reforms have resulted in over 90% of the employment generated in both Spain and Euskadi being precarious, temporary, without rights, as well as thousands of workers being pushed into the status of false self-employed, as a paradigm of new forms of exploitation. In addition to these, they are labelled in surveys or statistics as entrepreneurs. In our opinion, in addition to exploitation, there is cynicism here. The reforms have made it easier for employers to maintain and increase the benefits at the expense of labour, economic and social rights and, as a result, the levels of inequality and poverty are being triggered, as I have said before in this House. Two reforms that have unbalanced labour relations in favour of employers and degraded working and living conditions of the working class. With these reforms, we workers have to choose between unemployment or precarious jobs, as has already been said. Work to remain poor in many cases. Five years after the last labour reform, indeed the hardest, the consequences cannot be worse for working women and men. The employer, on the other hand, is in an unbeatable situation with regard to labour relations; a law and a framework of relationships that allow them to make all the decisions and always have the last word. The loss of indefinite ultraactivity of the conventions is a sword of Damocles over the workers when a convention is being negotiated: if an agreement is not reached, the workers lose their previous rights, those of their current convention. The employer knows. He knows, therefore, that he can blackmail the workers. He knows that, either they accept what the employer ultimately proposes, or these, the workers, are subject to worse conditions. The legislation and framework of labour relations resulting from these reforms have therefore ended with collective bargaining, and have made workers less and less interested in establishing their working conditions. The most corrupt employer in Europe is rewarded with one of the most favourable laws to impose itself in labor relations on one of the working classes most punished by the crisis that capitalism itself has provoked. A employer who currently has several of her most illustrious representatives in prison, including the one who was president of the state employer, of which the Basque employer is absolutely voluntary. Basque boss who is very comfortable with this situation. The President of the Social Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country (you know her perfectly, Garbiñe Biurrun) has spoken on several occasions about the harsh criticisms that Confebask receives from judges who, applying the legal logic, make judgments that limit or nullify aspects of labour reforms. That is why, from this Parliament, we thought that we could not be timid or ambiguous, and we should denounce this state of affairs and come out in defence of the workers, who are the weakest part in the field of labour relations. For our group, it was a matter of taking advantage of the initiative that came from the proposing group to drive a change in the unbalanced framework of labour relations; of clearly positioning ourselves with those who have been the pagans, the real victims of policies designed and implemented by governments. There is no democracy in a system in which, those of us who have no other way of subsistence than working for others, we have no capacity just to negotiate those working conditions. It is not only, therefore, in our opinion, to reverse and criticize – which seems very good to us – the latest labor reform, the most terrible, that of the People's Party, but which would not have been possible without the previous one, because things in this matter are slowly getting us into it, so that we do not feel that we suffer. And it wasn't just about raising or emplacement to raise wages. This seems good to us, but it is not enough, because even the employer is going to say that it does not look bad the salary increases, but always low and below the price increases. And it did not seem enough to us to allow the interprofessional agreement to develop. It is true that the interprofessional agreement on the structure of collective bargaining is a prime starting point, but it is not enough. Leaving in the hands of the employer, the people who have the most power to determine the conditions of employment, the resolution of the conflict that generates reforms that give them everything, is clear to us that it is doomed to failure. I wish we were wrong. It is therefore important to urge the Basque employers, in our view, to facilitate the unlocking of collective bargaining at sectoral tables, respecting the indefinite ultraactivity of the conventions. It is a matter of making it clear that the current framework and labour legislation are at the service of one of the parties, and that we therefore need a change. Our proposal was for Parliament and the Basque Government to stand clearly in defence of the weak part of collective bargaining, which is the workers, a much weaker part because of the result of the two labour reforms, as well as those adjustments that have been made in later years. At the moment, it seemed to us that we should be demanding. It seemed to us that it was not enough with the agreement reached by the groups. It seems to us that we must not maintain a balance between social actors in order for them to agree on this field of play, because we believe that the field of play is addicted, it is dictated at the service of one of the parties. That is why the agreement that has been reached seems insufficient, although it is true that we are not going to oppose it, because it is a minimum agreement to which, of course, a coalition like ours cannot oppose it either. But we really thought that, as things stand and with the rules of play that have been set for us, it is time for politicians to be tougher on this issue too, because the situation of women workers is very, very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u51	It's a third change. We must now discuss, under the motion, collective bargaining and labour relations. A debate that I already intended we were going to hold, from the very moment the proposing group recorded the inquiry. Any effort by the councillor to share approaches, or to explain actions, commitments or convictions, would not prevent us from reaching the motion to this day. And that is despite the fact that we are not so far off on basic issues, that is, on collective bargaining and labour relations. That is why we come today to discuss this, the framework of labour relations, collective bargaining. And we do so with conviction – it has been noted – with knowledge of cause surely of those who intervened beforehand, and after having had the opportunity all to listen in parliamentary committee to the unions of this community and to several employers. The Commissioner for Employment and Justice, Ms San José, said: "Miscellaneous decisions have been taken, both at the state and at the European level, which have caused workers to lose some of their working conditions. Rights cuts have been chosen, and this has directly affected employment, wages and the core of collective bargaining." I know for a fact that Mr Casanova, beyond the speech on fire that he usually uses in this forum on this subject, shares with me, and even with the Labour Counsellor, that collective bargaining is a matter which involves and is the responsibility of the social partners, the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the business side, and that both parties have autonomy in the exercise of this matter and that they are therefore responsible for developing collective bargaining and that this should bear fruit. And that the Government can only help to push it forward so that the parties can reach agreements. At least as far as the Basque Government is concerned; a different question is whether we rise to the central government. And I think it is necessary that this premise, which is simple, be made meridianally clear from the beginning, because it is from this premise, from this basis, from where we have been able to reach an understanding in the compromise amendment that we have signed EH Bildu, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party. Although I am sure that we also share in a very large percentage the analysis of the situation of collective bargaining in Euskadi that was told to us by the Counsellor of Labour in the full past of control, and that in some issues today has been repeated in this forum: there has been a substantial change in the model of relations that we had, has been blocked; the agreements have fallen, the meaning has changed radically; we have moved from broader and more secure areas of collective bargaining to precarious business-by-business negotiation. A diagnosis shared by the unions. We were able to hear in their appearances how they told us that there had been a change aimed at causing a devaluation of wages, changing the structure of the model of collective bargaining, income distribution and power in social and labour relations. The loss of ultra-activity of the agreements, the preference for the company agreement over the sectoral agreement, and the non-application clauses have broken the necessary negotiating balance and given greater power to the employer, the ever stronger part of the employment relationship. And this to the detriment of who's going? There is no doubt: directly against the workers, and mainly against the workers of micro-enterprises. And it should be remembered that mostly the fabric of our autonomous community consists of micro-enterprises. Why? Because these lose the umbrellas of the conventions, of the broader negotiating frameworks, where traditionally the best conditions have been achieved, the most advantageous conditions, and which, by the way, were then used to start negotiations in the company-by-company agreements. It always started from the sectoral agreement, and then improved through the enterprise agreement, not so that the scope of protection was only the enterprise agreement. Something that seems easy to understand, or to me at least it seems so, but it shouldn't be so, because not all the union forces either, and from some unions, like ELA, have embraced this theory that it is better to cover the workers, one by one, with showers, instead of putting a large tarp that protects them all. And they have, in our view, abandoned the responsibility that workers' interests are called upon to exercise in their work, and not getting involved – they are not getting involved – in promoting processes of negotiation with greater coverage such as sectoral or territorial agreements. I do not discuss the virtuality of an enterprise agreement, but of course it cannot live up to it, it has never lived up to a sectoral or territorial agreement. But it is also true – and they have said it, and I will also say it in this rostrum – that we must not lose sight of the fact that labour reform has turned our labour market, which has deregulated the market, into a sock, and has imposed the law of the strongest. It is an imbalance in power relations in favor of employers, a power that entrepreneurs are using, I share, and without a doubt, for what? To hinder or even prevent the achievement of new agreements. And to deal with this situation I think we have to start with two premises, and we have to know how to say them also in the rostrum (not only in private, but also in the rostrum). On the one hand, we need the union action unit to be recovered, so that the employer is faced with a single and strong opponent. On the other hand, the employer must be certain that there is going to be a legislative change that reverses this situation and restores the balance in collective bargaining. The trade unions are responsible for the first thing. The second is for us, for our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies. There is a sufficient majority to do so, and good proof of that is the support that has been given in the Congress of Deputies a few months ago to a proposal by the socialists to repeal the labour reform. And I'm not going to argue whether the one from 2010 or 2012. The 2012 one directly attacked collective bargaining, and there is no doubt about that. In 2010 surely, and I recognize it in the rostrum, there are things that did not work or that did not meet the objectives with which it was thought to be achieved, and therefore it will have to be reversed, and in that, supposedly, it has to be when the negotiation of a new Workers' Statute is opened. But what we have here is the possibility of repealing labour reform, and drawing up a new statute that will contribute to what? To recover rights for workers and to create stable and quality jobs. But, if we focus on Euskadi, here too we have some tools that are effective in developing a framework of own labour relations, a model of collective bargaining with specific characteristics. Tools that are effective, but for them to be useful, they have to be used, and that is the effort that we have been trying to transfer from the Department of Labour, the Labour Counsellor, to the full of control. It is necessary to facilitate places of meeting and permanent dialogue, and to insist and encourage the opening of avenues for concertation in order to achieve the objective of ensuring that every worker in Euskadi can benefit from or be protected by an agreement signed in this autonomous community. And to that end, for us – and I have already heard that for others who have preceded me too – the structure agreement signed on 17 January by all trade unions and employers is a key starting point. That I could have come before? Yes, but he's coming now, and we're going to apply the popular saying, "Better late than never." I think it is an agreement that can be useful, but in order for it to be useful to the workers logically it has to be filled with content. Through what? For the closure of agreements between its protagonists, who are only trade unions and employers. And we must give this opportunity to happen, and here Parliament does what it does today, from the minimum principles that we have managed to reach consensus, is an appeal to both sides of collective bargaining (some will insist more on employers, others will also talk about trade unions, but in the end Parliament urges both sides) to reactivate the signing of agreements in the Basque area that allow for fairer conditions in terms of wages, stability and employment. And, it is true, that you get that, that economic recovery that seems to be reaching the big figures, also gets into the pocket of the working class. Because that concept of a poor worker that is being coined cannot be allowed to stay or to settle. In that sense, the agreement we have reached has not been timid or ambiguous, but what has been practical, clear and basic in the common sense. For what? To take forward an approach from this Parliament. To this first step in January – and with this I conclude – we will add today's political agreement, which I believe is important. They have made an effort to sign that agreement in January, we are making an effort to ensure that this Parliament has a position of support for its action. We want to give it importance, because we would like all the social partners to understand that they have the political and institutional support to seek that understanding, to protect labour rights, that it is a demand that workers also make and that we also believe that it is a factor that will also benefit companies, because it is a factor of competitiveness. And, as the Socialists understand it this way, we would like what we support today also to end up opening the doors to the Social Dialogue Bureau with the full picture of all the participants; to meet as soon as possible, because we need it, and the street workers even more than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u53	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. As has been agreed, Mr. Casanova made an appointment to the Chief of Work and Justice. Mr. Casanova didn't seem to have been satisfied with her answer to the chief physician, and she brought us a change of the consequence of the interpelation. We're discussing that lotion today. And I often know, Mr Casanova, that you are particularly strict with the parameters of the debate, mainly reflected in the justifications, but in this case, and addressing a little..., flying over the approaches of the debate you raised, or linked to the inquiry, and also taking into account the operative part of your motion, we understood that you proposed a broader scheme, which effectively transcends that justification of the inquiry. That is why we are presenting an amendment of the whole, also following that scheme that you proposed to us: scenario, actors and background schemes, analysis, strategies, proposals... We also consider it essential to make a chronological reference to this issue, as we believe that this debate goes far beyond the mere unsatisfactory inquiry to which you referred and your subsequent motion. For us it is also essential to remember, that you have also done so today, your requests to appear to the main actors involved in this issue, which you dated to February 2017, and the development of your own appearances, which took place between 10 March and 25 April. The outline of our amendment, the scenario. The scenario, as has already been mentioned here, that normative scenario, that normative scenario that is reflected in his motion, is reflected in the text that we and the Socialist Party put forward in our amendment and that is also reflected in the text that has been put down. Our position on this issue or this first point is clear and repeated over time, our consistency on this issue is unquestionable, materialized in our voting position in Congress both in May 2010 and June 2012. Overcoming that scenario seems essential to us, it is a tremendously positive thing, in our view. The actors. The agents. We do not like to distinguish between labour relations holders and other agents. Without a doubt, they must all be involved, but the holders of labour relations, as has been said here (i.e. representatives of workers and workers and representatives of enterprises), have special responsibilities from which they cannot escape. The Government, something you stress, the Basque Government. Does the Basque Government have to be involved? Of course it has implication, and it has to and has to. Where do we see that implication? We see it in its action, we see it in the field of our training, in its programme. An implication that also reflects the agreement between the parties, and an implication that undoubtedly also has a very clear reflection on the government agenda, with concrete commitments on this issue: Strengthening the Basque system of labour relations, concrete commitment. To promote social dialogue through the creation and promotion of a permanent body of social dialogue, composed of representatives of the Basque Government and of the most representative trade unions and business organisations, which demonstrate, as could not otherwise be, their willingness to participate institutionally in it. Encourage collective bargaining to improve quality and job stability and business competitiveness. Encourage..., commitment to foster the institutional participation of social actors and to develop their role as protagonists of social dialogue. And the commitment to encourage the participation of workers in companies, strengthening economic support programmes and fiscal incentives geared towards this objective and promoting something very important: promoting research, awareness and dissemination initiatives in Basque society of the benefits of this participation. These are clear commitments. These are clear commitments of this Government. The third question, analysis. The analysis, and also addressing this chronological aspect. In my view, the core of our amendment text and the agreed text is the agreement of 17 January. In my opinion, that is the core of this agreement. And in my opinion, too, it is the core that appears in the requests for attendance that you register on February 20, 2017. You speak to us in these requests of a negative reality in the Basque field of labour relations. To a certain extent, then, yes, we share it. But you say, and I quote, "But not everything is negative," in your justification. "But not everything is negative." "The pact, this pact of 17 January," you say, "can be considered a milestone." I share this issue too! And he asks those who are going to attend these appearances to present analyses, proposals... It really seemed to me to be an illusion, Mr Casanova, an illusion of this approach of yours. What is this deal? What is this deal? Because we're talking about the deal and sometimes we forget what it is. The agreement of 17 January, first, is signed by the business organisations and by the four most representative trade unions in Euskadi, and with a clear objective: to make the agreements that are signed autonomously prevail over the state agreements. Defense of our field. Defense of our field. Something exciting, and in my opinion the core. The days went by and we watched the appearances. Things happened that March; things happened last March. But I want to transcend a little of these issues that were happening, using that comment you made between speech and agreement, and enhancing the approach of agreement. But I'm not going to hide that basically in one of those appearances I felt very, very disappointed (this is a euphemism, eh!), very, very disappointed by you. And I am and I want to be a little critical of you too. Because, in my opinion, that's the core. That's the core. The agreement is the core of this issue that you brought us. And the agreement of 17 January disappears in one of those appearances, in one particular, and the agreement of 17 January disappears in the text of his motion. It disappears in the text of your motion. I want to be critical there. A milestone, an agreement that you bring us, that disappears and that reappears, and that reappears in the text that we have signed. It's really great news for me. How is our position represented in the signed agreement? Indeed, in the first paragraph I have commented, our position on this normative scenario, no doubt represented. In the second paragraph, on which you said you were going to be the headline, well, actually, by reviewing the interventions of different actors throughout the appearances, we have all seen them talking about this issue, including Cebek's representatives, who were moving us that in all the processes in which we have participated we have negotiated and there have been increases in salary. Actually for me, I tell you again, the headline is the appearance of the agreement of 17 January 2017 as a primordial departure, as stated in the text, as a primordial departure for that advance in collective bargaining. And, Mr. Casanova, the ball is not on one's roof alone. The ball is on everyone's roof: a good deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours... I'm sorry! Mr Ruiz de Abulo. A group that hasn't issued any correction, representative of the Basque Potula Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Indeed, in recent weeks we have seen the Committee on Justice and Labour pass through different social partners (representatives of employers, workers' representatives), and if in any way we can agree in the debate we have today is that the diagnosis they have all made is that the social dialogue is dead, or is virtually non-existent, and in a very precarious state of health. They are the ones who give different adjectives to be able to define it well and qualify it; therefore, I will not waste time there. The situation is very bad. Neither did they have to come and tell us, because it is something anyone who sets foot on the street and talks to both workers and entrepreneurs, so he will know immediately, and we all share that. What I cannot share with you is the solution we put to that problem. It is said here that the solution to this problem is to immediately repeal labour reform. It was initially said, in the initial proposals, both in EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos: the full labour reform must be repealed. Of course, 2010 and 2012. We're putting... At the beginning of the crisis in 2007, a very large, very deep wound is created in the employability of this country, which is immediately infected, and in order to solve this problem, the scalpel must be inserted. The 2010 reform came, and he didn't put the scalpel on, he put on a chainsaw. The effect of the reform was the destruction of three and a half million jobs. There was then another reform, which I do not say is not improveable and that in many issues it would have to be changed, because from the 2012 situation to the 2017 situation things have changed a lot. But the effects of the 2010 and 2012 reforms are not the same: from the destruction of three and a half million jobs to job creation; from reducing social security membership by 2% a year to 3.4% a year, as the change is evident. That the unemployment rate in this country should increase by 10% every year with the Socialist Government, that from the point of view of the effects of labour reform, employment is created at a 2012 level, and now employment is created (it is not that jobs are destroyed, jobs are created) at a 10% annual level in relation to these unemployment rates, so the change is completely different. You can't put the wound, the chainsaw and the scalpel in the same bag, because, of course, the solutions are different. And, therefore, I have to oppose that total repeal of the reform of the Workers' Statute. And I'm sure... the lehendakari has temporarily abandoned us, but I'm sure he doesn't share that analysis, and possibly his advisors don't. The reform must not be repealed. Could it be improved? Could it be modified? Well, I don't say no to you guys. And, in fact, if you see the initiative that you have put before us and the amendment of all the groups that support the Government, you say that the Workers' Statute should be changed a little bit. Man, we have to come to an agreement, I know what coalition governments are, and obviously everyone has to leave hair on the mat in order to sign a joint amendment, but sometimes it's even better not to say anything, than to say things that make no sense. Because I'd love for you to... The Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group urge the reform of the Workers' Statute in the Congress of Deputies. Why aren't they able to present there a serious, firm choice? "Article such, point such; Article such, paragraph which: this I amend, and this I amend". Signed, by the hand, Socialist Party and Basque Nationalist Party. I don't give them six months, six years. Why don't you introduce him? I'm sure not. Because their models are different: some are more with the chainsaw and others are more with the scalpel. That he's hurt? Obviously. That job's been destroyed? Obviously. But we've turned the sock around and things are working out. "Employment is precarious, employment is horrific." Good. In 2007, more or less 65 % of the contracts that existed in that country were indefinite; in 2017, 75 % (three out of four workers) have indefinite employment. Then we've improved. That's precarious employment... Well, those are views, honestly, that I can't share with you. And the wage conditions, when this very week we can read in the press that in Euskadi it turns out that we are getting closer, or we have exceeded, pardon, the average wage of the European Union, and the number of fixed employees is increasing and they are paying more and more, because those new jobs that are being created will not be so precarious. That, I insist, will have to improve, and we will no longer have to content ourselves with looking at that three out of four have a fixed contract, no: we will have to get the others who don't have it..., that one out of four has it. And we will have to work on that, but with serious propositions and positive propositions. Because if all the labour reform that had to be repealed had been focused on the issue of ultraactivity, or why company contracts had been given more weight than territorial contracts, then we would be talking about a completely different area. It has become very clear to you, Mr Casanova, after all the appearances we have had, that what needs to be done is to ask Confebask to sit down and negotiate. It has become clear to me, one, that both business associations and trade unions doubt the legitimacy of Confebask, because they say it is not the most representative. Maybe. I don't know. I do not have a deeply formed opinion on this. But we certainly blamed Confebask, who, by the way, did not come, but it became very clear to me. And something timidly Mr. Aiartza pointed out to him there that, if we are going to sit on one side to the employer and on the other side to the unions, on the side of the unions, on that side of the negotiating table, it is not that there is no union, it is that they have no interest in whether there is or will be, because they themselves said that "I with these, nor to inherit, which is that I do not feel nor speak". It's curious! And if we move the scope of private negotiation of collective agreements to the public, and remove Confebask, who is not, and put the largest employer in this country, which is the Basque Government, obviously on many issues the Workers' Statute and labour reform are not applicable, but for public enterprises on many issues. And if we forget the demand for wage increases, because that goes by law, we might think: "The unions are clear... Are there any agreements?". Well, no, neither. It's not just the employer's fault! It's also the government's fault! Then I would like the government to be urged to negotiate. There are tens of thousands of workers in this country who live from the public era, from the contributions we all make through our taxes, and perform fantastic work, of course they do. But do we have to blame exclusively the entrepreneurs, or the big entrepreneurs, which seems to be, from what they were saying, which is the ones who represent Confebask? Those requests, forgive me for telling you, I don't know, are like dreams: and tomorrow that you feel, that you approve a salary increase, and that the minimum wage is 1,200 euros. Of course we all do! Of course I do! And I wish it were more, of course it was. Now, have you, when it comes to making that request – and Elkarrekin Podemos, who also second it – if our productive fabric supports it? We all know you don't. We all know that's impossible. If we put an interprofessional minimum wage at 1,200 euros, how much does the qualified wage have to be? What productive business fabric can that bear? Not ours. Then we toast to the sun: we go up to the rostrum, we put on the medal, and "I asked," and "I said"... Absolutely impossible things from today to tomorrow. Therefore, I would ask you, please, a little more concretely. In other words, do we reject labour reform in the job creation part? It's better if there's more people standing there! Just as some are interested in more unemployment and more poverty, because in that totum revolutionutum they can succeed. Like us, we are concerned about the country's march, the march of families, the march of companies and the march of workers. And I believe that the repeal of labour reform is not precisely the solution to this problem, and therefore we cannot at first support those proposals that have been made between the three groups, nor blame them, when it is others who do not want and have no intention of sitting at the negotiating tables or reaching agreements, either between them or against those who have to be on the other side of the negotiation, whether it be the public sector or the private sector. And, as I am running out of time, then, in the second part I will try to explain the position in the agreement that you have reached, in which I advance you that I miss much that nothing is asked of the employer, that there is no talk of the government, and that no longer is the repeal of labour reform, but that a series of toasts are made to the sun. It is important to reach agreements, but sometimes, when the agreement completely changes the initiative of origin, and of the four points that one presents remains at zero, so it is also better not to reach agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now to answer, Mr. Casanova, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u57	Bai. Don't worry, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that now I'm going to break the deal for you and you'll see that it's not, that it's not left at zero, but the substance is still there, and it's still there quite clearly. The improvement in macroeconomic data that has taken place in the Spanish State is undeniable, and I have not denied that improvement in macroeconomic data, but it has not been thanks to its policies, it has been thanks to a change in the global cycle. You said, "The crisis is Zapatero's fault." Yeah, Lehman Brothers took over. "Recovery is thanks to PP." Yes, Portugal too, and Germany, and the whole of Europe, and all the countries that are emerging in macroeconomic terms from recovery? You are not the creators of macroeconomic recovery. Their responsibility, their policies and their labour reform have achieved that this macroeconomic recovery is not reaching the citizenry, and that this recovery has been for some, and for others it continues the long journey of the desert. And we can apply the same to the issue of labour relations. Of course, an external observer says, "They do not agree between two parties, and the responsibilities will have to be shared," but here the principle of which bonus can also apply? Who's benefiting? Because, of course, if the workers are losing and falling back in their working conditions and seeing their wages fall, and the employers are gaining more and more, man!, I will have to draw the conclusion that it is the employers who are benefiting from the situation that are imposing the blockade, because in addition you have put in your hand the legal instruments, through the labor reform, so that they can do so. And, Mrs Castelo and Mr Aiartza, you do not seem to like the fact that we have tabled this motion. They say, "We were already afraid that the thread of interpellation..." Man, I think they would have to be congratulated, because thanks to this motion we have been able to reach a good agreement and send a positive message to society, and above all to those who belong and have to listen to what we are discussing and approving here today. And on the agreement of 17 January, it seems to blame me to some extent as if it were a weak point in my argument. And that agreement was indeed reflected in the presentation of the petition for appearance as one of the positive milestones, and from the outset we agree that that agreement has been signed and developed. You forget to say that another positive milestone that we were saying is the debate on wages that was being established in society, and to which we are contributing precisely in positive terms with the agreement that we have reached today. But you will agree with me that there was unanimity among all those who came to this House to say that this agreement was good, but that this agreement was only a starting point that now had to be filled with content, and indeed that is what we call in this agreement, to be filled with content. I'm going to formulate things in a way that we can understand. Because if I tell the government to side with the working majority, you tell me, "No, no, the government has to be neutral." I ask the government to be as neutral in favour of the workers as it has been neutral in favour of Confebask so far. Because we have come to the extremes where Mr Lehendakari said "Some unions are out of reality. For this country and for the recovery we only work the government and the employer." That has been said by the lehendakari not long ago. I ask that this same neutrality in favour of Confebask now do it in favour of the majority party and that it is also right and works for the common good, and not for the benefit of a small minority as Confebask is doing. And I am running out of time to break the agreement, but I believe that the agreement, the first point, rejects labour reform and calls for the repeal of the rules that have devalued and precarioused the conditions of employment (it is recognised that there is a devaluation and precariousness, and it calls for the repeal of the rules that have led to it). That the balance be restored (it is recognized that there is no balance). That it helps to recover rights (it is recognized that rights are being lost) and to create stable and quality employment, which is what is not being created. That's just point one. See if important things are said (I'll tell you both). Parliament considers a collective negotiation leading to a rise in wages of a general nature. Well, I think it's important that this is said, I think it's important, and there's no unanimity, there's no consensus! When we say that we have to raise wages in a general way, and Roberto Larrañaga, the president of Confebask, says, "We are not in favour of raising wages in a general way." Literally. So there are those who feel questioned! And when Mr. Jon Bilbao, head of the Confebask negotiating team, says, "We are not going to accept the approach of removing the labour reform," and here we say that we must repeal the rules of labour reform that harm workers, man, I believe that here there are those who feel challenged, and who feel ratified, on the other hand, in the union approaches of denouncing these attitudes. And when in the end we say that the interprofessional agreement has to be developed, that priority must be given to the Basque area and that a framework of fairer labour relations must be built in terms of wages, stability and quality of employment, I believe this is not a toast to the sun. I have already admitted, of course, that, as in any agreement, there are things of the maximum ideal of a party that cannot be incorporated, because it is a meeting point where everyone has to give in, but I believe that it is substantially reflected in the fundamental: the repeal of labour reform, the rise in wages and the resumption of collective bargaining, which is currently blocked by Confebask's unilateral decision. In this sense, from now on, the trade unions, and those who want to resume collective bargaining to build jobs with rights and decent wages, have the moral support of this Parliament and have the moral support of this House to reaffirm themselves and to have a more pressure instrument to achieve their just objectives. And I am pleased that we have been able to reach this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u59	Thank you. The fact that Confebask would not like to participate in the Committee on Labour and Justice in our opinion perfectly represents the picture of how this issue stands, which we were discussing here, of collective bargaining and of the framework for labour relations. They did not need to come to this House to say anything or to explain anything, because they do not need to say anything. They are absolutely comfortable, because, as I have tried to explain in my previous speech, the legal framework for developing the collective bargaining that establishes the working conditions of workers is currently absolutely in favour of that part of the game. And, therefore, they do not need to go to explain anything or to fight anything, because they know that right now, as things are with the legal framework, they are doing well. They are doing well, and with this legal framework they know that the working conditions that are being negotiated are always, ultimately, the ones that the employer will accept without leaving themselves hairs in the catera. There are no hairs left in the catera, because, as I have explained before, the labor reforms... And I didn't come here, of course, either to make blood – it looked the same – about the Socialist Party's labor reform. We believe that this job reform was harmful, it was negative, for a number of issues that we explained. And we have no problem, on the contrary, we are grateful to hear members or parliamentarians of the Socialist Party say that there were things that were not right. We appreciate that, and we would even appreciate it more if, as in some other issues, it were recognized that the labour reform should not have been carried out, regardless of whether it could then be explained that it was done in a given context, etc. We, on the other hand, would appreciate it, and we would work to get to the bottom of the issue, which is that both the Workers' Statute and the other issues that make up the legal framework that we have right now are built for the employer, and we need to build a new one. And when we read the initiative we understood that this was what was being proposed, although in the case of the proposing group they were talking about an exclusively and so-called framework of their own, and other groups may not agree so much with that and we think that there are other formulas (shared frameworks, etc.), because we think that the substance of the issue or what concerns us is the content of that framework, not so much its geographical scope. We agree on the importance of sectoral agreements, of course. We believe that, as I have said before, by not being able to oppose a number of minimum issues that you have agreed, this House should have positioned itself in a more courageous way. And we think that the Socialist Party can go further (we think that if it can't go it's because it's in a government agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party), it could go further on these issues. And in fact we believe that in the previous parliamentary term, or in the year 2013 (I think it was the previous parliamentary term still), some things were also approved in this House that, although temporarily, went beyond what is approved today. We thought that the recognition or the instance of ultraactivity, as well as speaking in plural of labor reforms, could have been a way in which the Socialist Party would have gone further, and we would have been more comfortable in signing an agreement, which, as I say, we do not oppose, it is not that we oppose it; it is that, as things are in labor relations, it seems absolutely insufficient to us. I don't know which one has to be today's headline, because besides when I come here I don't come thinking about which one I want the headline to be: I come thinking of defending my positions with greater or lesser accuracy, and knowing that I can also make a mistake or I can make a mistake, but I come to defend some positions. And we believe that in a situation in which, as has indeed been said, the Basque Government repeatedly positions itself on one side, which is the employer side, for which it is usually only flattered, and instead for the trade union side only has replicas to tell them from time to time that they do not do politics, and so on, when we know that trade unions are perfectly entitled to have political opinion, it seems to us that this House would have to position itself clearly – I do say so – on the weak side. To stand in the sense that we need a new framework of labour relations, because the one that is there does not serve, and there we will certainly work in the Congress of Deputies. That is why, I repeat, my group is going to abstain from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u61	Well, I'm gonna start by reading what the unions were telling us. They coincided, but I took one of the parts that I think was clear. He says: "We have had a few years in which, as a result of this crisis, we have had to prioritise employment to wages, and also, as a result of the loss of agreements, we have sometimes had to prioritise the defence of the scope of the content itself, and especially of the content of wages". He says: "There has been a loss of purchasing power in those agreements that have not been signed, we have been unnegotiated for many years, and there has indeed been a significant wage devaluation." On the basis that this is a fact that was repeated in our appearances, comes the reason for point 2 of our amendment, from that minimum agreement. Which, by the way, we could go further. I don't know if I have to be braver, but the one who hasn't been braver to be in the picture with us has been equal to Elkarrekin's spokesman Podemos! Because if we were so righteous, or so close, or we had to go beyond that, man, so far you could have accompanied us, and then said in this rostrum that you would have gone beyond that. But sometimes you have to go to the usual! The important thing is that this Parliament sends a message... And I don't know if it's gonna be today's headline, or tomorrow's or the past's, is that I don't care, anyway. What I want is for you to reach out to who? Trade union centres and employers. Two o'clock. Both sides. Because here I don't know if, by far mention one side, we forget the other. If involved are the two and protagonists are the two! It is true that one has greater power than another, but it is also true, and the unions told us, that the only possibility they have at this time of a collective bargaining unlocking, in the situation we have, legal and deregulated establishment of labor relations, is with the union unit in front of the entrepreneur. And that must be made to understand them, because it is what the workers need right now to have a framework to protect them. Because, if not, it is very good that we talk here, but the one who has no protection, the one who has no place to demand, or the one who has no place to claim is the one who does not have a collective agreement that results from its application, right? So, well, is the employer comfortable? Yeah. But other groups have also been comfortable and we have not been able to gather together so that our message might be stronger. I think the dialectic confrontation is good, there is, it looks perfectly when we intervene here, that from the Nationalist Party, EH Bildu, Socialist Party, We can, and in the antipodes the People's Party, we have our things, but we have to be able to get to that. The spokesman for EH Bildu explained this: what we ask is that the rules contained in the labour reform that have devalued and precarioused the conditions of employment be repealed. And we have specified this precisely because in the Congress of Deputies, of which I am going to recommend the reading of the Journal of Sessions of 13-12-2016 to Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, because there has already been a proposal on the Statute of the Workers and it has already been said where to go... And it has also been said how the process has to be done; not by establishing the relationship of articles, but with a process of participation with whom?, with whom then has to have its application and who are those who suffer with it, which are the social agents. It is not a question of the Socialist Party, Elkarrekin Podemos or other groups starting to write articles, but that is done from participation with social actors, and seeing what worked and what did not. For you to see how it is, that from that original proposal, Elkarrekin Podemos called for a part of the 2012 reform on conciliation measures to be saved. Do we put chainsaws on? Well, look, you said chainsaw. Do you know what you put into collective bargaining in 2012? Dynamite, pure and hard, on the purest basis that collective bargaining had. You brushed her, they brushed her. The People's Party brushed up collective bargaining, and gave all power to the employer. That's what he did. Why? Well, you'll know. With the data you've given me, I think you have to get them out of a People's Party argumentary... I too receive arguments, but sometimes I question them, especially when I have had appearances that have given me data. Because this thing you say, which by the way they repeated in Congress, I don't know where it comes from. That we now create jobs, and I don't know if you've said that three out of four are indefinite... in short, that official statistic I'd like to see. If he has it, he doesn't have the stamp of the People's Party, then he's sending it to us, because it's... Anyway, I'm not going to tell you to read the papers wrong, because since you haven't downloaded them, it couldn't be. Look, I think the important thing here, and beyond criticizing... Sometimes I don't know if it hurts them to make deals or something. We have tried to have a text that was easy, so that we all had the opportunity to support it and not feel uncomfortable about it, and to say a message that was now clear. We do not want, we need a reform of the regulatory framework, because this will also make the employer move in its willingness to negotiate. We need to establish in the framework of collective bargaining at this time the importance of a wage rise that will alleviate the situation that we have had all these years and compensate for the loss of purchasing power of wage earners. And we believe it is important that the importance of the agreement signed by trade unions and employers in January be recognised from here. We do not want to be pessimistic, we also want to give that support from here to that agreement. And we ask you, we urge you both, employers and trade unions (all trade unions, all employers), to fill that agreement with content, and, if possible, to jump from there and reach the social dialogue table all, so that you can mark how our framework of labour relations has to be completed or how it has to be developed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u63	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Casanova said, "We don't seem to like this debate." I assure you that I like it, I assure you that I like it. Another question is that he has been told to bring him some hair, hanging from an interpellation whose answer, in his opinion, is totally inadequate. Therefore, what I wanted to do is contextualize and say: no, no, the debate is much deeper, both in terms of content and in terms of chronology. But I like, I like the debate, especially because the debate allows us that, allows us to move forward knowing each other's positions. It is the essence of the debate, the aim of which is to reach agreements. Another issue you have commented on is the request for neutrality. A petition for neutrality, it is addressed to the Government asking for neutrality. That is the comment or image that moves us: that the Government is neutral. See, I think it's an image, in that sense, wrong, right? And I told you what the government's commitments are! The obligation and involvement of the Government is to create conditions. It seems that you with that image say that depending on how the Government moves, or whether it goes to one place or another, it can tilt a certain balance. No, no! The Government is involved in creating conditions. That is what he says and is doing: creating the conditions, those conditions under which genuine collective bargaining can take place. Create the conditions. And then, already going into more detail on some issues of the agreement, and in order not to prolong me any longer, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you say you repeal the labor reform. I believe that they have already pointed this out: to reject the labour reform, and to repeal those rules contained in it which have devalued and precarioused the conditions of employment. It's substantially different. It's substantially different. There is another issue relating to the second paragraph, to the second point of the agreement. For us the essential thing, the essence of that second paragraph, is the scenario: in collective bargaining. Everything goes through the stage: in collective bargaining. Can you talk about this? Can you argue about this? Can you talk about wages? Of course I do! In collective bargaining. It is the essence of the second paragraph: collective bargaining. That has much to do with what I was commenting on, with the object or core, in my opinion, of this issue, which is the agreement of 17 January, which I am not going to repeat any more that nuclear character, but rather the primordial character, the primordial starting point. And that is where we clearly urge, and we urge all, all the agents, the headlines who most, for their responsibility. What do we urge you to do? Let it be developed and endowed with contention. That is the essence of this agreement. An agreement in which on the other hand we, as it cannot be otherwise, certainly see reflected our position. I think it is a good agreement, it is a good impulse from this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. And finally, the representative of the Basque Popula, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casanova, you tell us that recovery and those large macroeconomic numbers are not thanks to the governments of the People's Party, and that the whole of Europe is growing. That's squeaky. That's very nuanced. We are growing at a much faster pace than the rest of Europe, and instruments that are the work of the People's Party, such as this labor reform, are beginning to copy them in other countries because they have seen that the recipe was good and that the patient's result is very good, which has improved a lot! And you say that recovery from the big numbers isn't reaching the citizens. Do you tell me that those people who had lost their jobs by December 2013 and who in a number of about 2 million (one million nine hundred and seventy-one thousand) have regained their jobs by May of this year, those people have not noticed that things are going better, because their trade union rights are not what you would like? Well, look, frankly, I think that for a person who is at home, who can't feed his family, or himself if he lives alone, who can't participate and develop a life project, having or not having a job is fundamental. And the idea of this job reform was precisely to generate employment, and that is what has been achieved, whether they like it or not. And now we change a word of everyone's agreement, and now we mutter a little bit, and now we look elsewhere and say that we reject it all and that we have to change, that we have to change. Holy shit! Have the courage to come here and say, "Well, look, we didn't like it; the results are good, and it's worth it. We're going to modify it and we're going to update it." Phenomenal. That's what they're working for at the Congress of Deputies. Mr. Hernandez, I had misunderstood you on the first shift. I thought I was saying that you did not want to reach an ambiguous and timid agreement, and you surprised me, because I read the agreement and said, but if this is absolutely ambiguous and absolutely timid! I have already seen, when you explained your voting position, that you prefer to stay out of that agreement, because you do not share and do not agree with the initiative you have put forward. I am surprised that Mr. Casanova, who has come here to criticize the position of the government, to criticize the position of the employer... Neither the Government nor the employer appear in the agreement. And what you're asking for is a widespread rise in wages. Under what conditions? That's like saying nothing, Mr. Casanova. You've disappointed me a little bit today in your speech, really. The other day he made a hard question to the councilwoman, I don't think he deserved it – he just got there –; today he has gone up and made a good speech, hard, strong, and then he signs an agreement that really doesn't say anything, and that's why we're going to stay out of that agreement. And I want to end by thanking Mrs. Castelo for the stunt she threw at us. To say that we are in the antipodes of EH Bildu and his in employment policies I think it is an undeserved praise for the intervention I have had today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u67	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the departure of a plan to digitalize escal schools. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. Wide has the word to suggest and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u68	Good morning. Hello, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We propose to discuss this as well as the whole meeting, starting a plan to digitalize euscal schools. This proposal came from a concern. That is to say, in February the third of the Digital School. Top of the meeting, celebrated in Bilbon. It was there that the leading departments of Cristina Urire, associations of high school directors, BIGE or Fedavi, Child and First Education, the Fathers of Networks and EHIGE, Euscal. With the great crack or breviation that digital technology can produce among the schools, we were told to be on guard against the danger of this blouse. So this danger led us to treat this initiative in person, and we would like to know it, and to appreciate how much interest there is in the different political parts which we represent in this legislature, and to help the digital technology not to become a descriptive element. As we reason in the other proposition of our own law, there is no doubt that we live in a digital age, where many of the human activities are influenced by digital technology and by the internet. We communicate and communicate through the nets, we shop with a good-line platform, we reserve our trips, we participate in the forums, we create human knowledge and we can share it with another person in the world. And from so much change, our learning has also changed. Today, as witnesses of all these changes, we see that human knowledge does not remain on the four walls of a room, but that knowledge can spread through digital technology and the internet into the four winds. In that sense, we can confirm that the world of education has experienced the influence of technology, and that all students have had a quality education, it's important to ensure that they have not only the means and digital tools to learn, but also that from the centre there is a proper digital alpha-betization. Therefore His disciples ought to be prepared, And His disciples and His teachers will be prepared. After all, it's not important that students have technological instruments, but that the students have a digital competition to do the effective, appropriate use of that technology. Now we ask ourselves how the eucalyptic education system has noticed the digital technology and the internet influence. In order to face the digitalization of euscal school in 2000, the Board of Education launched several projects and had a positive influence on the change of this paradigma. These projects include the ICT Project, School 2.0, the Model of Technological Growntity and the Network Education Room. All these projects have contributed slowly to digitalize. But the problem is, when we find that these projects do not penetrate into a future strategy or general plan, and know not what criteria to follow in this respect. We don't know if the Board of Education makes any clear bets on those projects. You see, for instance, that the autonomy of the public centres is a limit to this digital change. For example, colleges have no freedom to choose whether they want Wi-Fi or cable or not, whether tablet or computer calls better. We're delayed in the improvement of the peacekeeping. This problem is discussed by the students over and over again. We're short of open education resources, even if we can use the boundaries of public centres in other finances. These are the obstacles which have been detected by the centres on the road to the digitalization of the eucalyptic schools. All these difficulties are chiefly those which the centres of the public network notice most of all. However, I don't just want to mention the technology material. That is to say, based on a plan when it has or is not related to these technological tools, devices, connection or digital clipboards. What we really care about is that, as in this system of digitalization there is need for the teachers' explanation, there is also a protection and a plan which seems very important to us. In the case of teachers, and as I said before, technology has changed its way of learning and also shown at the same time. That's why the digital formation of the teachers should be strengthened in order to make sure that all teachers have the tools needed to develop their digital competition. There is not only day, knowledge, and wisdom, but only in the four walls of the room, nor in the figure of a teacher which knowledge transmits. We must note that the students can get all the information available by clicking on it. Together we believe that the Board of Education ought to develop, in accordance with the union of education, a general, updated, complete, and real, which includes the requirements of digitalization in the Basque Autonomy Er-Dargo. A plan that combines all the exact measures that have been taken earlier in the past few years, shows which steps we must take, and the actions that we must advance to improve. This plan will have no meaning if it doesn't count on people who are the leading ones. I mean, we should be related to the education union. We should place this plan inside a calendar, considering the modern tentitudes that are being put on the most advanced education systems or a model. In fact, and as an example, on the preceding Friday, in the Bilbao Bizia hall, there was celebrated the VI Adventure of using Google Suite instruments in education. In this encounter, 400 students and teachers met, educational education with experience for the use of digital technology exchange purposes. In this encounter the Director of New Education participated, and was a witness to petition for the primary demands of this collective. For instance, they require reconnaissance, autonomy, the autonomy of the centres, the protection of the centres, and, of course, more means for the formation of the teachers. This collective uses every day Google tools. Because the delayed Microsoft systems give more trouble, and, day after day, the Eusko-Mork pays 596.388 for Microsoft Lices. And together we are part of Podemos' free software and also in education for open resources. I set this example to show, that we must have consciousness of the importance of the necessity of designing a digitalization; and that the centres ought to be autonomy to choose, because they live every day in their digitalization procedures, and know their wants better than any other. Just now to find out if there was a general digital plan, the head physician of the Board of Education asked us a question. This was the question: In order to digitaliate public euscal school and digital technology don't become a digital and social distinction tool, does the Board of Education intend to adopt an alternative to the educational community as well? And his answer was: "He's studying the Department of Education to share the possible proposal after this analysis with the committed agents." We think that what we see in this answer is that this is the analysis and at least at the moment there is no plan. In conclusion, we cannot overlook the situation in which the solidarity management programme for textbooks is located; a programme that has been in operation since 2007, which is open to all students and in which families pay a fee for use for books belonging to the centre, and which should be renewed every four years. Well, with the argument of the transition from materials to the digital age, the department has decided to eliminate aid for book lending. A decision that from Elkarrekin We believe is not correct if this decision is not accompanied by another decision to invest in this case in digital tools, whether tablets or laptops, that allow the student to acquire the material. A decision that may result in some families being able to afford to pay or buy these tools, but other families are not. And that's what we're talking about when we're concerned that technology can contribute to creating gaps between the students, and so we're presenting this initiative in the meantime. Sometimes it is not just a question of lack of resources, but of inadequate management of resources. In fact, we are about to finish the course, and we still do not know what the Department of Education plans for the next course with regard to the programme of printed or digital teaching materials, as well as the process of digitizing the educational institutions. In short, the network society has generated important digital gaps between citizens, gaps regarding the availability or non-availability of technological tools, regarding knowledge about their good use and their appropriation. We therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance to ensure and prevent these digital divides from being transferred to classrooms. In other words, it is necessary to ensure that technology does not become a discriminatory element. After all, the right to quality education for all is behind this initiative. And I must say, in conclusion, that I am glad that we have arrived with the Basque People in a middle-class correction, as I have said in my discourse. And we've also tried with the members of the government, even the Poptular Party, but it's not possible for us to come to an agreement, because we thought the correction of their middle course was pretty short, and therefore we've agreed that the EH Collector's and ours were cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Bengoechea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u70	Thank you, Madam President. We come here... I am speaking on behalf of my group, logically, but I am going to put forward an amendment that has been signed between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party, the People's Group (here we are all groups). Of course, the reflection that Mrs Zabala has brought to this plenary cannot be more interesting and more necessary. We had made an amendment expressing what we thought was not about the Elkarrekin Podemos amendment and that it was necessary from all points of view. I think we all agree that technologies (ICTs, as they are called) are the future of education, and that is that they are the future of everyday life, in fact. Moreover, it is a future that gives me some concern, because it is a future that is already happening, it is happening to us, and that means that our present becomes the past. And it's very sad to live in the past. So, preparing this issue I have been looking at everything that has been done in Parliament and in the Basque Government on the subject, and, look, the truth is that I have been quite confused. I am sure that for those who have been working on it everything will be very clear and everything will be very well, but think of a profane, but not an ignorant profane, but a profane who really wants to understand, and finds himself with: model of technological maturity, fence of maturity – I don't know if it's a mistake or that the fence is something... It's something, isn't it?, fence–..., fence of ICT maturity, Sare (it is understood very well), Premia, Berriztu, Ikastola 2.0... And all this, according to a reply from the counselor, based on the Basque Educational Informatics Plan, which is three decades ago. Three decades ago. And what we want is to see if we can simplify this, and do something simplified but effective. That is why we were pleased with the point put forward by the government parties, which says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, following the needs of digitisation" – I think there is a word missing here, which is "after the analysis of the needs of digitisation" – "to proceed throughout the current exercise to the proposal of a plan for the integral digitisation of Basque schools". That's good for us. Let's see if we get that plan, the only one, the simplified one, the one that helps us all, and we can..., I won't say forget, because I'm sure they will be very important, but subsuming all this: models of technological maturity, the fence of maturity (I have an interest in knowing what the fence is...! Because maybe it's a mistake and it's creation, but no, I think it's something, because it appears in many places, and I don't think it's a mistake that's been made many times)... , Sare, Premia, Berriztu, Ikastola 2.0. And above all, let's forget about that Basque Educational Informatics Plan three decades ago. This said in 2013; that is, we are already going for thirty-three years. Please, we really ask the Education Board to do that analysis and bring us a unique digitization plan, which of course takes advantage of all these experiences, but let's stop having this as a maraña. But there is something that we are very concerned about too, and that is why we have introduced it in this amendment, which is teacher training. Without a trained teacher... For example, in Elkarrekin's first amendment We could talk about providing – I imagine tablets or something like that – to all students, but what's that for, being very important, what's that for if teachers aren't absolutely qualified to use it as a tool to improve what they're doing now? So, buying tablets from us seems to us that it would be good if it were simultaneous, but even later, because the main thing is that our faculty can use that tool. Then there were other things that we were putting into our amendment but that we have withdrawn, not because we do not think they are important, we believe they are fundamental. We need a unique digital educational universe for the whole of Euskadi, a universe that allows all teachers to live together in it, to live together their experiences... We need to maintain that universe, because, come on, we all know that in the end, computers often call us "off and go back on," okay, okay, but let's try to have a maintenance for that whole universe. But all these things we had put in we thought it was much better to introduce them into that digitisation plan, because what we cannot do is an amendment asking for a digitisation plan and we are already saying what its content is. We hope that all these things that are fundamental to us are within the digitalisation plan, and, as we are talking about bringing it as a proposal, we hope to be able to enrich it then with all these aspects that are so important to us. However, we believe that teacher training cannot wait; that is why we have added it. And, of course, our group will logically vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u72	Good morning, everyone. To tell you the truth, I am rather disappointed in the discussion of this day than in the discussion, seeing, in consequence of discussion, the corrections of the proposition, and the semi-determination. And I swear to God, I'm so disappointed. And then, seeing more of the half-way proposal that the new tripartite has made, I really thought that the government had a plan. I thought the government had a plan and I realized that government has no plans. I thought the government had studied the necessity, the situation, the reality, and I realized it wasn't like that. And that's what the government has sold us so far. Even in the latest budgets the government has... Then, on the second round, if I have time, I'll read to you what the chief physician explained to us in the previous discussion, and it has nothing to do with what you're talking about today and what's going on in the full line. I really don't understand. I don't understand anything and I don't know what this government is doing anymore. And at least until now, the government has tried to sell us a plan and, well, it has sold us enormous films around digitalization. And, klaro, when I saw the government's correction and the correction of the tripartite, it's the first time that a government sets up a correction like that, "Let it continue," "que siga." Because it's usually the most important thing for the government to do in a correction, "let it continue," "que siga." I mean, everyone understands that the government is doing his homework and doing his functions. So, today, we're impressed. And we're also decoyed because this government, from previous legislation... And we've asked for a number of shows and I've got a penditative roles on the stage of the jobs of the House of Education Board, when you're trying to get rid of that program, it's a motorcycle that's trying to remove the solid program of textbooks and sell it to us. "Relax, digitalization is already running and digitalization will replace it." But then I see that there is no planning, no strategy to represent. There's nothing. So you have to remove it to set something else that isn't a program? Do you know what his name is? Constraints. That's called snitch, and you'll wear whatever dress you want, but we're seeing what's going on. And I hope before June's over, before this political education and the educational year is over, the chairman comes to the Board of Education, and to really explain his projects about the solid textbooks, to find out what we didn't get at the pre-prejudicion. And we're decoyed because we've been told over and over and over again, and in this legislation, that's going out in almost every single instance, when it's time to prove the evaluation, we're told that all schools have digital resources. That's what we're told. That's what we said, and, as we see here, it's not like that. Or maybe we misunderstood, we misunderstood, but somebody would have to explain it to us. But come on. What we see is, therefore, that there is nothing so confused as to be said of the Government, though there is something which is constantly trying to say, that the state of education does not know anything, it knows nothing about them. And, further, we see that the digitalization indicator also is becoming a debuter, and that even in this two-speed education system it helps to stabilize this two-speed education system. Because we're even here at two-speed schools. Some have incredible resources and others have nothing. They have nothing. And we've seen from the year 2000 that this government has started multiple programs. The broad Mrs. has explained some names, but these programs are either incomplete or incomplete. And besides, we must consider that it is a very complex world, it changes very quickly. So we have to be very careful, and things have to be done as they ought to be, efficiently, but now we see the necessity plan, now 2.0, I don't know what now. But then we don't know where they're staying. Now digital slates are coming in, and when they already have advanced north of Europe and have advanced education systems, they are already removing digital slates and setting up other systems. I don't know, we'd have to think about where new teneds are going to be effective and, well, we're going to be in those last tenements too. I don't know, we should even think about that. So it seems to me, as I've noticed today, that we have a rather disturbing panorama. That it is not a very simple, complex world, especially the one who demands that it be considered responsible, responsibility, a strategy, a direction, means, resources, and the unit of education. And in this direction we have drawn a few axes in our correction, and one is to place them in a calendar. We need a calendar to move the digitalization plan forward. Of course, if the plan isn't, we'll have to make the plan. We must also be aware of the tenets in this advanced education system, which we find to be the minimum of knowledge. The intermediate, for which the means also must be required, will they not? But, well, we think there's been means, that's what we were told in the budget. And then something important. If we don't really want to be a segregation, if we really want all schools to develop at the same level without any deviations, and have new technology to have, it's clear that we're starting from the weakest schools and must be identified. And, in our opinion, this is essential, and then, no matter what to say, formization, I don't know whether the discussion of today is useful to something, and another step, which serves to give us a quantum step. And we put our correction aside, but there's another indication, and Mrs. Wide has also discussed the Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi, or cable. There's an argument, there's a concern there, we've discussed it here several times, and we've even brought suggestions, even the schools have come to this house, and that's not even relevant. Then what are we? Have some extrastres? A few satellites who are out of high school-unit? Or should we tell them about it? It would be necessary to examine all this too, but it is more important to demand that the investment should be effective, and that the government should really explain what is and what is not. Eta, bukatzeko, same ez as utziko bigarren txandarako eta irakuriko dut Aurrekontuak azaltzerakoan Gobernuak esan ziguna. Gobernuak esan zigun: "As far as the most technological and IT field is concerned, we want to remember that we have marked ourselves as a challenge the modernization, the modernization of the computer infrastructure of the centers to enable agile and secure communications that enable us to get a real educational center in network. "We will continue within the Premia plan, which grows in chapter II from 26,000 to 206,000, with the equipment replacement plan through Berriztu, and we will begin the expansion of digital slates to primary courses that do not have them, with a supply of 1,200 slates, after having extended it last year to Bachiller. All this means an increase in the appropriations for investments in computer equipment of almost EUR 4 million, an increase of 57 %". Then, well, somebody can tell us what's really going on in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialist, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u74	Well, our society is clear that it needs more knowledge, and it's always going to need more. Solving these problems, the current ones, and identifying welfare standards, is in this case directly related to knowledge generation. And today, to a large extent, the creation of knowledge, its search, is based on the interaction between the person and the machine and the intensive use of new digital information and communication technologies. Every model change has been accompanied by a certain scepticism, but we cannot deny that reality is what it is, that technologies are moving forward, and we must adapt ourselves or ourselves to the digitalised world. At the dawn of the 20th century, when the phone began to work, there were people who preferred to use the pen and write a letter. Also, in the face of change, society has had two attitudes: those who have resisted, and those who have become pioneers of that change. And now we are facing a major change, in which we really have to say that we do not start from scratch, and we do not have to leave anything behind. Several projects have been launched, such as Eskola 2.0, or EIMA 2.0, among others, but it is clear that we must take a further step in the technological modernization of Basque education definitively, and reach the consensus of all, of the whole educational community and of economic agents, in a plan of digitization. We have an obligation to connect the school in a profound way with the technological transformation of this society. For the school to have authority and legitimacy, it must advance the social environment in which our students live and develop. And there are many reasons to move forward. The first is equality. We need to combat the digital divide, and we also need to ensure that all our Basque students access the goods of this world equally, because not all boys and girls can have such tools in their family environment, and Basque education has to do to ensure equal opportunities in classrooms, in order to be able to compete equally and that this is not influenced by the economic reasons that each family can have. The second is personalized teaching. It is very difficult for a teacher with twenty-five students to maintain the dialectic rhythm and tension that a classroom needs when it has twenty-five different learning rhythms, and this offers the teacher a tool of extraordinary value when it comes to making no child who is slower for the development of his or her skills stay behind, and that no child who is faster in development gets bored in the classroom, because this in the end is a failure. And the third reason would be the extension of the euskera on the network as well. We need our students to be able to identify what is acceptable and what is not, with their own criteria and with a critical sense, and we also need them to have technical competence, because today the market is asking them practically widely for their professional competence in the computer media. The school contribution to the process of general digitization can be fundamental in itself in order to advance in social equity and to save what we were talking about the digital divide; a social and economic gap that is not only observed in the greater or lesser difficulty of access to new technologies and communication, but also has to do with the correct use of these technologies and, beyond that, in the very access to knowledge. It is also important to keep in mind that preserving our own linguistic and cultural heritage is expanding to the digital world. The generalization of digital technologies in this world, the educational one, and the consequent increase in content, may in the case of euskera an increase, no doubt, of its communicative use. In Basque education there have been some important steps in the implementation of new digital information and communication technologies, various plans and programmes carried out during these years. But it is certainly not enough, and further progress must be made and the technological modernisation of the educational space must be set as a goal in all public schools. This perspective implies the provision of equipment in sufficient quantity and quality, and expansions in the connectivity of schools, which, of course, is not ideal at the moment. Digital information and communication technologies must be made an essential tool in the teaching and learning process. It is true that steps have been taken, and it is true, as Mrs Ubera said – the second leg of the opposition bipartite – it is true that part of the commitments or ambitious plans that were put forward at a time have not been fulfilled. But it is true that I believe that the amendment that is being tabled adequately reflects a commitment to the government, so that this digitisation plan can reach this Parliament as soon as possible. We have previous experiences with various developments, but in all cases they have not been continued, and we therefore urge the Government, following the analysis of current digitisation, to proceed with the implementation of a comprehensive digitisation plan, something which I am sure Mrs Zabala and Mrs Ubera agree with. It is an important theme for the education system and a transcendent theme, which goes far beyond what are the mere computer tools. It should become a key issue for the Department of Education: the modernization of our education system on equal terms for all pupils and for all public schools in the Basque Republic. Thus we will have a quality and equitable education, and our students will develop technological skills that will undoubtedly serve them for an increasingly demanding future of work. Because today almost everything is digitized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the group, Mr. Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u76	Chief of Parliament, Madame of the department, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, all good days. The existence of the society of information and knowledge is one of the principal modifications which are now taking place in society. Knowledge has become the most precious of merchandise, and education is the means to acquire and produce it. The science-based economy has become a primary goal and the information and communication technology are strong tools to promote this science. However, the challenge of education, from a point of view of education according to basic treatment, is not only a preparation for the formation of students and the society of science, and it includes the use of these sciences and other methods of procedure and attitude, in order to respond to complex requests. That's why, to use ICTs, our methods of operating in accordance with our methods and in order to achieve basic competition are included in the educational point of view. According to this point of view, the student who ends his elementary education must have a digital and mediatic competition, that is to say, all the alphabetization or functional training required by the people of our time. This is not evaluated in the manner in which these resources are measured by how often they are measured, but in the fields and circumstances of life they apply themselves with care and care. This is evident from the creation of the digital productions, by individual or groups, when you design a task. All this cannot forget to communicate and share results in social and digital networks, so it belongs to a digital connecting population which is learned and growing in the community. At the end of basic education, all the students must have the type of education of PLE, the type of training of the halbernorbera, i.e., the type of tools, services, and connections that we use, for the purpose of obtaining new competitions, and of learning through life. Since the school program 2.0 started at the 2009-2010 study, the model must be adjusted and re-defined technology to transform itself into a wider planning, especially in teaching methods, administration, information, and communication processes, to improve the ways of digitalize the European Union and the EIGP, 2010, the Basque World's Plan, 2010. The objective of the pattern is to decide which degree of maturity each school wants to achieve, including the autonomy of the PRICAL Estal School, which the law of the Basque School admits to the schools, and within the common bar of reference that the bureau has placed. So all the schools will have a technology plan, but each of them, considering its features, its preparations, its measurements, and its previous course, accorded to its wants, and to the general goals given by the Board of Education. This pattern is defined by these characteristics. The evaluation based on evidence and the basic process of the school in the Companation, administration, information, and communication. In order to obtain the termed communication, wordless or digital, the Board of Education by specific Callings, whether directly or directly, projects and experiences are fostering him, in the colleges outside the university. These projects and experiences will establish changes in order to improve the educational or organizational habits, and therefore to improve the quality of the education system. The new tools which society employs in all its activities have been introduced by means of the changes and progress of society, and by the means of digital resources. A number of programmes, such as school 2.0, have gradually entered our schools by degrees. And in these moments, it is intended to promote pedagogical and methodological changes. In fact, this change must result in the introduction of networks and digital devices. The use of technological resources helps to adapt to the different levels of study, encourages the study of the like, strengthens the ability to learn, and expands in rooms the virtual environment for physical and temporal study. In the same way, by digital educational forms, the class spreads out into the outer area, and students and their families have the chance of getting more resources at any moment, without any need to be dependent on analogical content. To guide all this to this, it is necessary that in the process of learning, digital resources, methodal methods, and tools... the gradual advancement of use and knowledge. The students are anxious to encourage each, Mrs. Wide, to all of them, according to their wants. As our President Urkullu would say, without leaving anybody behind him. To make certain proposals to be explored in pedagogical, and to continue to develop them. All the time, we want to determine the standard of technology ability in schools, and I'm a public headline that has to be in private centers, without leaving anyone behind, and people targeting. The range of digital themes is highly dynamic, it is necessary to use technology for study and science to find, select, and use, the digital resources that will facilitate the progress of the studies activities which constitute the correspondingactic educational programming. This project requires a change of educational processes made with students. In order to do this, the technology for study and science will be placed at the disposal of schools, so that they can use these resources, and in addition, it is a set of professors' activities, one in which to use these technology and get the skill and knowledge necessary to establish it in the curriculum. School 2.0 has been a program for these past few years since 2009, the main promoter of this strategic union in colleges, even though every teacher considers the conversion of the digital technology as indispensable, has been a poor influence on the results of the educational process. I mean, the research shows that way. It is not only with the use of the IKT, but it must be necessary to reflect on the pedagogical justification of the activities performed, and to work in the course of the gradual method of learning. Thus, the physiological method of education which offers new pedagogic education models of New Education will be essential to the use of digital resources and the formation of teachers. On the whole, we thought it'd be all right if, after examining the digital-premises which we've finally signed, we'd have it done in this event, we'd like to make the suggestion of a digitalization plan of the eupscal schools, and also that, in the plans of its formation, it would be asked to introduce information and communications to professors of the eupstal educational system. Before it's over, I thank Pastor and Mr. and Mrs. De Bengochea's agreement as well as your distraction, Mrs. Wide, though it seems strange to me that the second or the third time is what we've stopped short is what they tell me. And you know, I always have the same feeling. When I begin to examine what has been left of the lame, it seems to me that some have discovered the sea and the sea long since discovered. Therefore I will remain as I have been, and wish to be the same degree of intercrossing with you in this matter, both in quality and quantity, and, if possible, more. That's why, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u77	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing over to the answers, together Podemos, Miss Wide, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u78	Good morning, everyone. Well, I think it's important that we all see the need for digitalization. It's obvious we're entering another time. However, I would like to mention to you that in our half-way correction, in our proposal, we have all attempted to include what all the parliamentary groups have introduced. In fact, EH Collect, Rebeka Uhi used to mention the arrangement of a prison or a calendar. For instance, the members of the Party, or of the Popula, used to say the formation of professors. And you, Mr. Faraway, to know what the exact diagnosis is, what kind of measure or plan we have to put into. We've put all these arguments in our middle-class correction. I don't know why you don't agree with us. I told you I had a leg left. Yeah, that's right. That's what I said. It seems to me you've stopped short, especially because you don't mention a calendar in your middle-conditioning, and that the calendar must be real, self-complexed, and that you don't really set it up in any way different, because in this Euscalomian Automia, it's different from the state of schools. Some, sadly, have less resources. Some of them, luckily, are better. Of course, what we have to do is try to equalize the situations, as you said, without leaving anyone behind. Of course, I take that too, without leaving anyone behind me. Beste alde battik, iruditzen zaigu, therefore, that our proposal is a general proposal, and what we wanted with this non-legislative proposal was to open a debate. To open a debate and, above all, to check the political will in this House. And also design a plan that puts order. Because it is true, as Mr. Pastor said, things have been done, of course. What happens is that what we have to do is to sort out all the existing plans, bring them together in a single plan that is to be implemented in all the centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And, therefore, it must be borne in mind that it must be updated, and above all what we were saying, that it collects a prior analysis. The preliminary analysis is to check that the situation of the centres is not the same. In a village, in a large centre, or in a place where there is a very high percentage of students from other origins or from immigrant backgrounds, the situations are different, the realities are different, and therefore the plan that will be put forward will have to be strengthened in those places where they are weaker. The point is that within our initiative we highlight two issues. One, let the plan place special emphasis on public education. But not because we're against the concert, not much less. It is because the public is weaker and because, we always say, with public money we have to subsidize, of course, we have to finance the Basque public school, regardless of whether we wish no harm to anyone, and of course we wish no harm to the concerted school. A plan that places special emphasis, as I said, on public education, which is the most suffering this paradigm shift. And we also want a plan to be made, of course, in a consensual manner with the educational community. Azken finan, hemen beti esaten dugu tokian tokikoa eta euskal eskola publikokoko langileekin harreman estu batan egonda esar de la egin behar den, garatu behar den plani hori. The ultimate goal, what is it? To prevent technology from becoming an element that discriminates, that discriminates between centres and, above all, between the socio-economic possibilities of families. And so I tell you again, I don't know why we didn't make a good deal of it, because I think we've taken the proposals of all the parliamentary groups in our middle-class correction, and, in short, it was the right thing to give us at least a fair solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Basque Popular, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Of the things that have been said here, I would like to comment on some things. Mrs Ubera, always with that reticence – I don't know if she thinks it's annoying – always refers to the tripartite. I will tell you one thing, Mrs Ubera: if the People's Group were in a tripartite, we would have a chair here and some chair there, and we don't have them. Do you know what we are? Free to analyze each subject and to be able to pronounce ourselves, and that is our satisfaction and pride. You continue with your small pettyities – which also make a lot of grace; you will get Mr. Pastor to talk to you about bipartisans... – but for us it is a pride, because we are absolutely free to decide our position. Let us see, there is one thing that we would like to remind the Government, that we hope that the parliamentary group will move it, and that is that Europe has granted Spain two and a half million to distribute them among the autonomous communities in order to achieve high-quality connectivity. Moreover, on 18 October 2016, the Basque Government itself announced the signing of an agreement. And having contacted the ministry, he tells us that the Basque Government has not yet signed that agreement. It is a European money that is distributed through the Ministry of Education, and the news is from the Basque Government itself. We want to remind you because it would be a pity that, while the rest of the autonomous communities have that money precisely for action to improve networks, connectivity in education, we would not use it. And finally I want to tell Mrs. Pili Zabala... You have complained that, in your opinion, your amendment said virtually the same thing, it collected the same thing. Well, other than disagreeing with that, I do want to tell you one thing. We don't know if by naivety or why, we wanted to give the Education Council a chance, and if the Education Council is committed to making a digitization plan and proposing it – because, if you read, it is "to bring it as a proposal" – that will be the time to determine whether its content is the right one or missing things. We, as you know, had also put in our first amendment many more things that we thought should be included in this area. However, precisely in order not to create confusion again (which, I say, the one who knows, like Mr Urrutia, who has shown us that he knows exactly what each one of these denominations corresponds to...), but precisely in order not to continue to get drunk with programs, programs, performances, etc., we want to give that digitisation plan a chance, to examine it, and there to see what should go on that plan and what should not go on. And I assure you that we will be very strict, and we will be strict and we will claim it, because, as I said to Mrs Ubera, we have a privilege, which is the freedom we have not to be bound by anything or anyone else to decide on the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. The representatives of the EH team, Mrs. Ubera... he will not speak. Mr. Pastor won't speak... And in the end, Eunctarian patriots represent the group, Lord Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u82	The lady's head. I'd like to answer some things. First, Madam Ubera. I'm surprised he says he's dislocated. But I would ask him: Are you sure this subject is the only one you're delocated? It's a pity to the lady, it's been a scandal now. Too bad, it's been a deterioration now that the deal wasn't made. Well, we'll continue and new times will come, and I hope we can make a deal. You even mentioned political will. I think there's been political will. The only thing that happens is that the interlocutor has sometimes to believe in political wills. If a political will is not believed in this, and in others, it is impossible. And it is always mentioned of political will, but political will must also be believed in the political will of another. But I tell you, we'll continue. But one thing I can't accept. You say that to help the wrong people is the goal and I believe you. But I, and it is a pity to correct you, because the other proposal of the original was signed by Mrs. Macazaga. Eta hemen esaten da, adibidez, zioan esaten da: "Even more so when we are faced with an educational system based on two networks that are presented under an idea of complementarity but that persist in segregation". Eta jatorrizko legez besteko proposamenean, 3. puntuan, bukaeran esaten da "priorizing public ownership centers to prevent technology from becoming a more segregating element". What do you mean when you say that? I told you yesterday, be careful with segregation and words like that. I'd like to ask you a little question. No, it's not a better opposition to a new word and a fat one. And the segregation, and the segregation, and the existence of segregation, to whom does it put its finger in the eye? Me? No. To the chairman of the Stripts? No. To President Urkullu? No. The Jeltzaan Party? No. You know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, No. Who? The image of this town. And in the texts which you produce, there is often a mention of segregation, and others desire to be as left to you, and they follow you. And I told you, reading your texts, sometimes one might think that we've been through terrorism in this town. And be careful with words, be careful with a few words. There are situations that are difficult, unpleasant, disturbing, but with words like segregation and such, beware. And you say, in your middle way, that you've all been involved, yes, that's very pretty, but when you say it's in the middle correction, at the second point, at the end: "Besides, you understand that we can't sign that. And I would ask Mrs. Ubera a question. With the words segregation and segregator here mentioned, do you agree? Isn't it? Do you agree? And what is it that makes euscal educational system, its organization or procedure? Do you really think that the segregation of public policies which are fostered from the Board of Education is fostered? Yeah? Yeah? Eta nolatan? Sareen arteko harremanian? A, ez, ez, ez! Of course, prioritizing public ownership centers to prevent technology from becoming a more segregating element...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u83	Mrs. Ubera, you've had your time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u84	Who's here? Network segregation? What are you talking about? What can we make of this? That the existence, weight, influence, or possible treatment of the computed network is the segregation or the segregator? Well, then, go into the society of your scholars and tell them plainly, aloud, tell them that. Maybe a lot of you, or some of you, you'll be parents of the academics, even though...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u85	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u86	... I'm as surprised as you are. But in the meantime, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u87	Finish up, Mr. Faraway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u88	...we will continue to balance as usual between the two networks, both as important, both as necessary to this country, as well as to the planet of the Euscal School Digitalization, as well as in the rest of the initiatives and designs that can be produced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Faraway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u90	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u91	Mrs. Ubera. Please, Mrs. Ubera, you've had your turn and you haven't participated in it, just be quiet right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u92	And I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u93	Far away, you go and finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u94	Yes, yes, if they let me tell you the last sentence. I'm sure we'll digitalize euscal schools and digital them properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion... Please, Mrs. Ubera, please, because we're going to the vote. Please. We're going to vote for the middle-line agreement first of all with Podemos and EH Collectations. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters, 27; rivals, 46; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u96	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-line corrections signed by the Eucabertarians. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters, 46; opposites, 16; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-25.u97	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and nine.
