ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the next few steps of the US of Guernica, known to the President by the US of the US of the Eubarians, known by the Committee of Government on the terms given in September 1917." Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President. On September 21st, you re-appeared at the general policy meeting. You renewed your ideas and proposals based on the government plan: one to complete the state of Guernica, and to acquire all rights which are not yet transferred; and two, bound to produce a new political frame for the Basques. He transferred the Lehendakari to this Parliament five reflections on the future of our self-government, which involve five personal commitments with him: to place the question of Basque self-government within the European Union; to analyse the recognition of Euskadi as a nation and the consideration of historical rights as a constituent power; to offer ways of extending self-government and moving towards a new status; to establish the concept of bilaterality and its effective implementation; and to have a precise decision-making capacity within the State, the European Union and international action. And all this based on two principles: pact, and democracy. Pact and democracy, lehendakari, two fundamental principles reiterated by you from the first day and that today, in the face of the situation in Catalonia, they are gaining all their value. In the face of the closure and closure of the ranks of the main institutions of the State, in the face of the lack of recognition and respect for national realities, in the face of what seems to be the almost imminent fall to the institutional abyss, his proposal, our proposal, is a pact and democracy. Pact and democracy, which involve the recognition of the national reality proper to Euskadi or Catalonia, and the assumption of the plurinationality of the State. Pact and democracy that require a constructive approach to the redistribution of State sovereignty and the promotion of the defence of the identity of their respective peoples. Pact and democracy, which are envisaged as a principle in the agenda of his Government in order to achieve more and better self-government, beginning with establishing the basis for the defence and claim of the recognized self-government; more specifically, the establishment of political, legal and institutional mechanisms to demand the completion of the outstanding transfers. This has been the subject of the report on approved and non-transferred transfers approved by his Government. The Basque track is based on this firm basis of the claim of recognized self-government to advance in a new legal-political framework of the future. That is the Basque way, lehendakari, your proposal for the national and social construction of Euskadi, which is also our proposal. It has been our political occupation hitherto and now, and we shall continue to do so. We build our country every day, step by step. Today, and through the state of Guernica, we are more national, we are more states. But we want to be more and more. To do this we have a necessary first step: that we may obtain the rights we want to receive. It is absolutely necessary that the state of Guernica should complete it. It's gonna make us more national and reinforce us to get a new autogobernu framework. So that we ask you, Mr. President, to know the finals of the report which the Government has just accepted: What are the next steps to actually accomplish the proposals of this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. The purpose of the report is to facilitate the transfers of action, in order that the state of Guernica may be complete. It is a hard task, that makes proposals: The description of each modification explains the functions and services of the present situation; it considers the conversion, expressed by the reference of rules upon each subject, and offers a rating, by grafting in the precedents and influence of the regulations of Europe and Spain. The final goal is to facilitate 37 changes to do. To this end I propose a first step, namely, to agree with the forces which concern this request. For this purpose I propose to extend this compact, to obtain the consent of all the parliamentary groups, to increase the protection of the Basque institutions, and to spread the protection of the whole society. As you have commented, moving forward with the objective of complying with the Statute of Gernika and updating the Basque self-government demands joining forces and acting from respect and mutual recognition; it means moving forward with the concept of the progressive national and social construction of Euskadi. This is the essential spirit of self-government. To assume this principle of reality, to recognize and respect the plurality of feelings and the different national realities, is something that is shining for its absence at the moment. I too have been concerned about the contumacy of building a parallel reality, even more so the way to justify it. Parallel reality, for example, to justify that the Statute of Gernika should not be complied with. To do it from the powers of the state with the feeling that nothing happens, or "nothing happens to me, because I have a whole political-judicial system that will always endorse me". To do so is contrary even to the solemn declarations in which it is plainly affirmed that the law is above all else; that is so, with the exception of those laws, such as the Statute of Gernika, which remain unfulfilled on the long night of the Loapa. Parallel reality of not recognizing the need to ensure a system of bilateral relations, based on an equal relationship, which has not worked with the right guarantees. Realism, dialogue, and difference is the only way, for the performance of the state, and also for the day of self-egory. This is the way we have to deal with each other and with each other in order to ensure the present and future welfare of the euscal society. Let us leave behind the parallel realities, confront the problems, comply with the Statute of Gernika, and turn this agreement into an example of practical effectiveness of the dialogue and agreed paths. There is no other way, there is no other solution: pact and democracy. We are always in time to put the confrontation behind us and start the dialogue. Today we could leave this House with the shared commitment to support the full implementation of the Gernika Statute, which should materialize with the unanimous approval of the transfer report presented. A necessary, convenient, positive step, and an example of political and institutional responsibility in the service of understanding, harmony and well-being of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the President, as to whether the Basque Country or Catalonia have a right to decide." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u5	Mrs. President, good morning, everyone. 40 hit legea bete gabe, ez dakit 400 edo 4,000 pass beharko duten, 400 or 4,000 years for law enforcement. In any case, on, Urkullu jauna. The situation is very serious, and I think it is even more serious than when I asked you this question. But I'll ask you the exact question: Do you still believe that, for what I have heard, it is possible for you to agree with a certain established state of the Basque society to agree with such a state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, yes, Mrs. Irryrez, yes, our wager is to get a arranged referendum in Catalonia as well as Eukadin. After you have heard your words and heard the question, I want to remind you of these four ideas as a whole: One: In Catalonia, united to the 1st of October, we have accused the immense and unlawful use of violence. Two: We have expressed the disagreement of the positive, political, and lawful citizens of Catalonia have received their answer from the year 2006. Three: We have requested to re-establish dialogues between the Populative Party and the Govern of Catalonia, in order to obtain political agreements which will give effective answer, so that the citizens of Catalonia may be able to express in a democratic manner what they please. And four: It is important that the members of the community should develop the legal and compacts, the differences, and the lights, in order that they may always express their will, and determine their judgment on these matters. All four ideas represent our position as a whole. Our responsibility is to discuss agreements over and over again. That is the purpose of our political and organization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u9	Thank you, Mrs. President. I, too, am in favor of negotiation and favorable to the agreement, Mr. Urkullu. I think I've said a thousand times before that I'd like to meet a state like Scotland, but it's not possible. And Spain has plunged into an infinite series of perverses, and has not given way to the voice of the people. And sometimes we've seen you in that infinite cure, and we don't yet know whether you're on the side of the decision that the people of Catalonia have made. The Catalians have demanded a thousand times that they should give them their word and deny them, and now they have received their word and have made a lawful, lawful, and lawful, and conveniencies. And I think you don't agree with that. The basis of the problem is that, before questioning the alleged unity of the Spanish State and of Spain, the Spanish State has given a good choice, including violence. And they've disguised him saying it's to defend the law, but that's been a big lie. On October 1st, we saw you at your Facebook, and we were shocked by your remark, because not a few mentions of victims, of violence, of "inciendates," and they weren't "incidites." And then, after noon, your government was silent when other governments talked. It was a good thing that the people of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, all the inhabitants of the Basques, and all the inhabitants of the Euskal, broke out with a clatter of pots, and broke the shameful silence. It's a serious situation. The State of Spain has, without shame, decided to show her worst face. The King of Spain has no words, I believe you think so. Not even Spanish Governments. Not those of the Constitutional Court, of the Judician, of police fountains, of the Spanish press, some media are lying and lying about this subject. Force and violence are being used, and are fostering division between the people, the State of Spain is using a lie without any power at all. Today President Jordi Sánchez, President of the United States, Jurdi Cuixart, President of the United States, Mr. Trapero, Mrs. Laplana is summoned to the National Court of Spain, under the name of the Constitutional Courts, under doubt whether they made a riot, and we do not know whether or not they will return home. And I'd like to know what you think, where is the limitation of violence that Spain can use. In this state it seems to me very important that the Basque Country should be near Catalonia, for what is shown to Catalonia will be shown to the Basque People in the same manner. The state is clear what its method will be, and we must be at the side of what the people of Catalonia have decided, we must calmly show the people of Catalonia that we are on their side and that things have changed. The political decision has hitherto been made, but the Catalonia has shown that, and I believe that it has come to pass with its local population and its institutions, with the institutions which are to be evacuated, that it has always been the way to get rid of the Basque Country, Mr. Urkullu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. You've used Catalonia several times, but part of Catalonia, and I'd appreciate it if we took it as a whole Catalonia. And even in this sense I take advantage of telling you that when we're asking for solidarity with Catalonia and Catalonia, solidarity, yes, solidarity, all Catalonia. And today I take advantage of telling you that you mention President Aguirre several times-not to-day, but you often mention him. And like so many times you forget half the sentence, completely changing the meaning of the text and context, Mrs. Irrea. And Aguirre said, yes, that the freedom of Catalonia is the cause of the freedom of the Basques. He also said that our people will fight for the symbol, not for other flags. And so, when the sentence is complete and complete, and the whole of Katalunia, please, Madame Irrea. Ideas as a whole. The whole reality, Mrs. Iriarte. Hori bai, Euskadi drunk Kataluniarekin. Euskadi drunk Kataluniarekin. Ka-ta-lu-nia-re-kin. And our proposal, Mrs Iriarte, responds to the desire for dialogue, agreement and a solution agreed for all of Catalonia, and, if required, mediation. It is part of an international current, and is being expressed by political representatives of Catalonia. President Puigdemont himself has explained it, and there are also many voices in the Spanish state that demand it. This position responds to the desire of the vast majority of Basque society. So true is the social root of the principle of the right to decide as the defence, also a majority, of an agreed solution. I repeat: self-determination exercised in a legal and agreed manner. Reality as a whole. For my part, I do not intend to sit (I am not) waiting for the train crash and its derailment to occur; let alone to encourage it. I prefer to strive to find solutions from realism and the will to agree, both in my public interventions and in those where they are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with the members of the Podemos team to the president, about the Canadian Law." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u13	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. President, as we see in the past few weeks and even more, the state is involved in a deep revolution of land and state, including restrictions of rights and fundamental rights. These parties which are within the Podemos take a great deal of time on the model of Canada and Quebec, as an example of the country affairs and the method of consulting the country, as an example of the law of Lighthood. We aim at a democratic instrument like this in the state. During the last few days we heard your words on the side of this model and the anuntation you're going to travel to Quebec. Besides this journey, which steps will the Government advance in this sense?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, you ask me about your trip to Canada, you talk to me, and how this crazy thing will work. "Hombre, I think, Mr. Martín, that the legislature itself has the crew of auto-gobbers. What responsibility or responsibility do you accuse him of, when you, beginning with yourself, are you responsible for what you have to do? In any case, Euskadi's relationship with Quebec and Canada has a dimension, in reference to the next trip, which transcends the political sphere, and I am interested to say so. Because we maintain relations in the environment (the alliance of The Climate Group, or the COP21 Summit in Paris, where we propose this meeting, and precisely this meeting comes from that meeting at COP21 in Paris), or relations in economic development and innovation (the Horizon 2020 programme); in culture and heritage within the framework of Unesco; in the integration programs of refugees... And of course we also have an interest in the Canadian Clarity Act model, which we have been considering since the first day, from 1995, 1998 or 2000 onwards. From day one. This Act establishes the conditions under which the Government would open negotiations that could lead to the independence of one of its provinces, following a referendum in that province. The Supreme Court of Canada issued an opinion in 1998 guiding legislation to avoid territorial conflict. The opinion established that the aspiration to independence is legitimate and must be attended to, treated and resolved by the State; it must be done through dialogue, inspired by the duty to negotiate in good faith, in a process whose outcome is not predetermined. The Supreme Court established that the process must respect the law, and that if it concludes in a decision of independence agreed, a regular constitutional reform should be processed that makes it possible. These are the guidelines set out in Canada to address in a democratic and constitutional manner a matter as relevant as the one we are dealing with. In Euskadi we are going our own way, and the Law of Clarity remains an inspiring model that we want to know first hand, but also in order to be able to transfer it, if that is the case, to parliamentary groups in the presentation of self-government, in the responsibility that the presentation of self-government has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u17	Obviously we know the work that the self-government paper has to do and there we are, but, as there is a proposal by the lehendakari himself in this sense as an example, we wanted to know the impulse that could give him. Also, because of the situation among the parties within the Government, we are somewhat concerned about the limits that the current coalition of government may have for the development of a territorial proposal in this regard. Because we know that the Basque Socialist Party has not moved its position in what we call the right to decide, that it has not defined a clear bet for plurinationality that goes beyond a few words, and that, in view of the events of recent weeks, this same party recognizes Mariano Rajoy as the main interlocutor to address the Catalan question, which we consider to be a mistake. We have not even heard them criticise the serious and worrying speech of the king, a speech that was at the service of the People's Party. But in your government record, in your business about self-portraits, you give both parties freedom. But there are obvious differences in your proposal. There is no compact in what is called the Hiertult of the Common-wealth. Therefore, as you understand, we are troubled to see that this government has a difficulty in betting on the law of light on both sides. When we introduced our self-reference of self-organization, we would certainly take it to Combination, and we made it clear that our wager is for a genius between the Basque sects. An extensive covenant, a treaty of the right of deciding which the euscal people demand. As we said at the time of presenting our proposal on self-government, our bet is on a pact of clarity, a pact between the Basque parties that serves to achieve the legal tools necessary to develop the right to decide in a bilateral and agreed form – that we understand that Basque citizenship, and now more than ever also Catalan citizenship, demand –; a pact that, in a manner similar to the Canadian Clarity Act, lays the basis for how to approach a consultation in a pact, legal and bilateral form, with clear majority, clear questions, qualified majority, which would be the beginning of a negotiation with the State and not the end of a process. This pact with those contents would also propose that it be referred to the Congress of Deputies, calling for the adoption of a sort of law of clarity, which would be valid for Euskadi but also for other territories of the State, being pioneers and example in proposing solutions not only for Euskadi but also for Catalonia or the rest of the State. So seeing this and seeing the red lines around this government that set you up, we want to know what part of the party you're in or what kind of an impulse this Euskion would give to such an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President. I'd appreciate it if you didn't refer to the other side, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. If I have to tell the truth, I can see with anxiety that in the course of a long time, a group of auto-engineers would like to bridge, and that the responsibility of the self-service can be overcome. However, our object is to facilitate the work of the auto-generacy, and that's our commitment. The basis of the Canadian Clarity Act is applicable in our case, Mr. Martínez. I repeat: avoiding conflict, independence as a legitimate aspiration, dialogue, negotiations in good faith, constitutional reform that makes it possible to agree on independence after a referendum. The State must realistically assume that this aspiration is legitimate and exists both in Catalonia and in Euskadi. And the Spanish Government should open a dialogue with a real will to reach an agreement. Our path is not predetermined, it does not have a written end. This is my opinion, and it is to the self-government presentation that the path should be written. The aim is to reach an internal agreement, negotiate a pact with the State and achieve the ratification of Basque society. We will do our utmost to make progress along this path. The Canadian Lighting Act is therefore a model to avoid political conflicts through dialogue and negotiation, and we shall be here to contribute to our contributions if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the legal members of the Euscal Social Socialists, made for environmental, planetal Plantion, and Housing Department, for the criteria of assigning social rental housing." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u21	Thank you, ma'am. The Socialist Group has wanted, in this first full control of this political course, to focus on the emergencies of the citizens of Euskadi, in particular on the emergencies of those who aspire to enjoy their right to have housing that they can afford. But the Socialists do not shirk the situation elsewhere, particularly in Catalonia, which has been present in the interventions of other groups that have preceded us. Let us not escape, because we have great concern about the political and civil rights that have jeopardized the arrogance of the Catalan Government and the inability of the Spanish Government. Those rights were at risk and coexistence was at risk. That is why the Basque Socialists today reiterate our commitment to the country pact that we signed almost a year ago, so that the different people can live together and meet the real needs of the Basques and the challenges facing our society. We thank the lehendakari and the entire government that shares that commitment, and we ask them – we cannot help it – to take care of that opportunity to continue to guarantee that plural coexistence, and to bequeath it to the next generations. We believe that the best of the inheritances that this Government can leave, in the midst of the slump in which we live and the sadness that I believe we share, is that we have been able to live up to it, to do what others have been unable to do: to offer certainty and answers to citizens. In some public interventions and journalistic interviews, the Environmental, Territorial Planning and Housing Adviser has expressed concern that the application of the current system of bars to establish access to the award of social rental housing sometimes has undesirable effects. In addition, and on other issues, the current barems do not encourage strategic objectives to favour preferential access for young people to rental housing and the satisfaction of the holders of the subjective right to housing. That is why, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you: What criteria are your department planning to introduce when awarding social rental housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, do not have any doubt that my highest priority is to work to ensure coexistence, a country in which we all fit and in which no one feels excluded or excluded. Nothing would make sense if we let ourselves be confused by mermaids who want to drive our ship to the shipwreck. But I am confident that our pilot and crew will not miss the course, and therefore the passage and cargo will be safe and will arrive at safe port. Having said that, it will agree with me that housing policy is a fundamental axis in the task of achieving a more just and cohesive society, because having or not housing often determines access to other rights. That is why the commitment we made in Euskadi to guarantee the right to decent and affordable housing for rent is so important. In view of the fact that social housing is not precisely left, it is only fair that its allocation is carried out according to objective criteria based primarily on income and the family situation, but, as he indicated in his question, it is true that at times the mere award on the basis of these criteria can lead to unwanted situations, which does not correspond to the social model integrated within the diversity to which I believe we should aspire; a model based on the combination of different types of housing and different human groups in the same built environment. The Housing Act marks the way for us. In fact, it establishes that public housing and state-owned accommodation will be awarded to applicants according to a scale that prioritizes disposable income, the number of members of the family unit and also seniority in demand, but this same law provides for the possibility of setting quotas for priority demand groups, so as to ensure social cohesion through mixing and diversity. All these issues are being discussed within the framework of the development of the new 2018-2020 housing master plan, and we are doing so with various groups and entities. After its contrast and debate will be reflected in the future decree of registration and award of the Basque Housing Service-Etxebide, which will replace the current order of 2012. If I can tell you that young people will be a preferred group, and that is because we want to fulfil this commitment contained in our programme of government in housing policy. The holders and holders of the subjective right to housing, as well as the recipients of social programmes designed to promote inclusion, will also be preferred. Because, just as if we did not guarantee coexistence, nothing would make sense, it would hardly serve us to meet people's needs in a sectoral way if the result is not an integrated model of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Thank you for your bet on the young people of this country. Thank you for your willingness to make policy from the consensus and not from the confrontation, counting on the social actors of this country, as you are doing, with the participatory process on the decree of the subjective right to housing. I am particularly grateful to you, as a socialist, for bringing that balance to that Government, and for sharing with the Government the maximum that is to focus on what is important, on solving the real problems of the citizens of this country, and not on generating more problems. I am convinced that the citizens of Euskadi will thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president of political stability." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. I was asking you today about stability, in the context in which we are living. And I understand that you are following it with extraordinary concern, and I too, what is happening in Catalonia, how coexistence has been broken in that community, how leaders have been placed outside the law, outside the law, built a parallel legality, and the consequences that that is having. And lately we're looking at the economic ones: the big banks are leaving Catalonia, the companies are changing their homes. That happened to us here, and then it's really hard for them to come back. And, therefore, all this poses a threat to our freedoms, a challenge to our Constitution, puts economic recovery at risk, puts social welfare at risk not only in Catalonia, but in Spain as a whole, it is placed outside a vocation of Europe, which was born so that there were no borders, but was born also so that they did not have to change. And he was born to live in a community of law, above all that some can impose the will upon others. I'm worried. I believe that all this must be rejected, and that there is a date from here to Monday, when some who have reached the edge of the abyss threaten to throw themselves at him and to drag behind them all these goods that we must protect. I have never asked you, nor will I ask you, to give up your aspirations. I do not share them, and I believe that there is also a risk of opening up uncertain paths. But I ask you, because it is your duty, to act responsibly, pampering, caring for coexistence here in Euskadi, and to do pedagogy. I did not like some positions of your political party these days. I did not like the fact that last week in this Parliament there was encouragement and approval of a declaration, a proposal in favour of the process in Catalonia, because the process in Catalonia is a process that leads nowhere but to the ruin of everyone. I don't share your public television reports either. I do not share your party's support for demonstrations that also flaunt this action outside the law and outside the wisdom. I want you to lead, and you can rectify that position, and not be encouraged. I ask you, and I know that you are responsible: Do you not think that the first step is to renounce the unilateral declaration of independence, which we must ask of you? Let them also give up being outside the law and outside the rules which govern Spain and Europe and which they have to govern here. I ask you to lead him also from Euskadi, and lead him to his Catalan colleagues: to renounce the unilateral declaration of independence on Monday, to rectify and to use a different path.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, what I am doing for the well-being of Catalans and Catalans and for their future development, according to my respect for whatever the decision of all Catalans and Catalans is, I will not say it in public, but you know it very well too. In any case, your question is about political stability, and I say to you that my bet is about political and institutional stability, and it is permanent and will continue to be. We have demonstrated this since the first day of the previous legislature, in which I have the responsibility to be lehendakari. Aware of our position as a minority, yes, but also by vocation and by will of political and institutional stability. We have sought for conviction stability and agreement to meet the country's challenges. In this regard, we have recognized the positive agreements in the Joint Concert Commission and in the Security Board. They satisfy both sides, strengthen the uniqueness of our self-government, and strengthen bilaterality with guarantees. And they are agreements – and I would remind you, Mr Alonso – that can serve as a model. Today we have talked about completing the Statute of Gernika, a law that has not been complied with by the different Spanish governments for thirty-seven years, and it is a good opportunity to preach with the example, and show that whoever claims to defend the Statute completes it, and who claims to defend the law fulfills it. Complying with the Statute also means investing in stability, this stability to which I am committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I distinguish well between the spaces in which we speak, and I also understand your efforts, I truly understand it. Now I'm going to answer what you're asking me. It is very difficult for people to understand that self-government is not fulfilled or that the Statute has not been developed in a community that, out of every hundred euros it collects, therefore, spends ninety-three. Let's say we're 93% sovereign (it's hard to understand something else; we can talk about what you propose, but it's hard to understand something else). Or that we have twice as much per capita funding as other communities in Spain. Therefore, that is the reality. And this we have to take care of, and we have to take care of it. And to maintain a clear position on what is happening in Catalonia, and to close that path to that unilateral independence with clarity. And that must be said, because the process has been supported here clearly and publicly. I therefore believe that we must now withdraw support for a path that leads us to madness. I honestly believe that. I think it's important. Its obligation is to prevent what is happening in Catalonia from happening in Euskadi and that coexistence here jumps through the air or that we live outside the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr Alonso, I'm interested in talking, yes, about Catalonia, but I'm also interested in talking about ours. And your question is that we should talk about our own, and our own. Look, I agree on the importance of institutional political stability to offer a horizon of continuity to the growth of our country, to which you have mentioned, but in relation to Catalonia, for example, as it alludes, or as it challenges me for this reason, I keep everything said from the 29th of August until today. Are you telling me about clarity? For I suggest you go to the sources (not to the press headlines, as often happens, but to the sources), to know what I have said clearly, textually, literally. All my statements are public and published; therefore, I ratify everything I have said, word by word and with the meaning of what I have said. And I stick now to what stability is. Stability, yes; however, stability does not mean that we cannot stop dealing with the problems, and precisely because of consistency I will continue to maintain the principles and proposals that will enable us to overcome situations of uncertainty such as those we are experiencing. My position is in this case also, and in relation to ours, transparent and repeated: to recognize the existence of the Basque and Catalan national realities, in addition to the Spanish one, and to move forward in the effective recognition of a plurinational state; to assume responsibility, to face problems of a political nature and to offer political solutions; to bet on the path of dialogue, mediation and agreement in the face of unilateral decisions or the imposition of solutions by criminal, judicial or police means; to face with a constructive vision the redistribution of the sovereignty of the State, and to promote the defence of the identity of their respective peoples within the framework of the European Union; to ensure the fulfilment of the pacts reached, legally ratified, such as the Statute of Gernika, and not to leave their materialization to the arbitr and whim of one of the parties; to recognize the existence of political problems; to assume dialogue and negotiation with the will of agreement and pact; to ratify the solution by exclusively peaceful and democratic means. That's the Basque way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "My name is Lalanos Gómez Basque Group Member of the Pional Group to the president, "Aigne Bolinaga EIB news publisher." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lehendakari, perhaps the question that I am asking you today seems less to you; for us, for our group, it is not less, it is serious. But I raised it for two fundamental reasons. First of all, because you are the ultimate and ultimate responsible for all the decisions that are made in those institutions that depend on your Government. And the second reason is that asking the relevant councilman, the councilman on whom EITB depends, the councilman of Culture, was making me feel better. Well, more than I notice, Mr. Urkullu, I was ashamed of myself. Although it seems that that shame that causes me and that causes our group to you and your Government, it seems that it does not. If this matter had happened in another government, you would probably be the first to be crying out to heaven, but here it seems that these kinds of anomalies we're going to call "family" are normal. I want you to go ahead with two issues. One: as we have been told it was because she was a woman, if she had been Mrs. Uriarte's husband in the last legislature she would have asked exactly the same question. And the second question: that I do not doubt in any way Mrs Bolinaga's professional ability and professional merits. But what I want to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, is whether it seems to you an objective decision that the partner of the Councillor of Culture, Mr Zupiria (to whom, I insist, we do not question professionally), is the editor of the news. Do you really think that among all the professionals who exist in ETB, among all the workers who currently work in ETB, Mrs. Bolinaga was the most suitable at this time (at this time) for that position? Does it seem to you that I do not know whether ethical, but certainly aesthetic, that the partner of the Councillor of Culture, of which he has to answer for EITB, is the one who decides what enters the news and how the news is given? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u36	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, as you have started with a general consideration in relation to the sharing of responsibilities within the autonomous dependent public apparatus, I will also start there. Look, the public body EITB is endowed with legal personality, as you well know, and it is created by this Parliament of which you are a part. Your Director-General is appointed by this Parliament, of which you are also a member. The Director of Information is appointed by the Director General of EITB according to criteria of strict professionalism, as set out in the law, and was immediately notified to the board of directors, of which you are also a member. The editor, her appointment, the news editor, is part of the director's responsibility, and her appointment was immediately communicated to the board of directors of the entity, of which you are a member, on July 18 and in her presence, when you were present. You also participate regularly, you are part of the Parliamentary Monitoring and Control Committee of EITB which is set up in the House, and where you can raise any kind of reflections or questions and ask for any kind of information in relation to this and other matters, organizational or staff. The government, you know perfectly well, does not manage EITB, which enjoys absolute autonomy of management, expressly recognized in the law of creation, neither appoints nor ceases any of the members of its staff, and of course neither appoints nor ceases the persons who make up its information teams. Therefore, as such, the Government has no opinion or opinion on the timing or validity of appointments and terminations in relation to the staffing establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u39	Thank you again, Madam President. The truth is that one in this House never ceases to be surprised, because, since there was no Culture Advisor, who is always the one who answers EITB's questions, I thought he was going to answer the lehendakari directly, but he sent the order to you, Mr Erkoreka. Look, he didn't report it, he didn't report it to the board of directors. She answered a question from this parliamentarian on that board of directors, counselor. He didn't report it. And he hasn't answered me. They hide where they have no criterion, where they have no criterion. Look, it's the criterion, really... If it had been in another government, I'm sure, they'd have put the scream in the sky. Look, it is Mrs Bolinaga who does not benefit from this decision, but above all EITB, because it lacks objectivity, it lacks credibility. It gives the image of a corralite, not just of EITB as a nationalist corralite, a television made by nationalists for nationalists; it is now also the image of a family corralite. It is the John Palomo (I eat it, I eat it), taken to television. As in other parts of this government, now also on television. I believe that the most prejudiced is, as I say, EITB, that if its objectivity is already questioned at this time, it is even more so. And the Basques do not deserve an ETB totally questioned by its objectivity. We deserve a true ETB and an efficient public service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Llanos, your time is over... Thank you. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, Mrs Bolinaga has been employed by the ITBE information services since 1984: eleven three years, three decades. In thirty-three years of professional career contrasted, objectively endorsed, in addition to the writer, of course, who is the first role she has performed, she has performed other responsibilities that are not negligible. She has been a correspondent coordinator, she has been a chief politician, she has been a night news editor, she has been a director and presenter of a programme on Radio Euskadi, she has also been a director and presenter of another debate programme on ETB. And now she has been appointed, within the framework of an unquestioned professional career, which you also do not question (her professional worth, she says in writing in her inquiry and has repeated it today, she does not question), now she has been appointed editor of evening news on television. You say, I insist, and you say it expressly, that you do not question the professional value of this woman. Are you telling me that, although you do not question your professional value, even though it is a woman with an unquestionable career and a professional packaging, you are invalidated to perform that function because your husband is the Culture Advisor at this time? And you're telling me that if it had been the other way around, you wouldn't have raised that question? And a woman tells me? Really? Does a woman tell me that she's incapacitated with that career path for this? With an unquestionable career path, which no one questions, nor you question, that you had to dispense with it, you had to exclude from the career path and from that responsibility, with the contribution that from it you can make to the proper functioning of EITB, only because your husband is currently the Culture Advisor? I insist: and a woman tells me? Frankly, I don't understand. I don't understand. If you question your professionalism, yet, but if you don't, I don't understand it, frankly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u42	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask you, Martíni was made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president about selling arms to Saudi Arabia." Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u43	Thank you. Good morning. A total of 312 containers marked with the seal of "explosives" have come out in the last few months from the port of Bilbao to Saudi Arabia. A shipment that, taking into account that each container has a capacity of around 28 tons, can add the equivalent of 8,656 tons. Means such as the Being Chain, or reports from Greenpeace or Amnesty International, point out that what was carrying that ship was armament. Weapons aimed at a country leading military aggression and a war against Yemen, where it is committing, inter alia, war crimes and human rights violations. Country for which the European Parliament has called for a trade arms embargo through the implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you what opinion the Government deserves that the port of Bilbao is the gateway to weapons for countries that are committing war crimes and other serious human rights violations, such as Saudi Arabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u44	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr Martínez, as you know, in order to export military material, must always be considered in the third countries, but permission, license, belongs to the General Administration, which is the government of Madrid. That is to say, the Secretary of State of Commerce. He sets up the condition under which the people are to be executed, how to do, what measures of security, and, in some measure, that permission, he puts so many subjects to give it. Once the licence has been granted by the General Administration of the State, considering all these actions that you say according to international trade, in this case the said military material can be exported in accordance with its conditions of danger, security and so on. In the event that the person who is going to do such international trade uses the marine environment, be it the port of Bilbao or any other, it cannot in any case object legally or limit or deny such embarkation, because it is a public service that is legally endorsed by that authorization. And, therefore, in many cases the port authority only has to comply with the security conditions, and under no circumstances can it object to it being carried out, provided that the authorization is legal, which is usually so in all cases in which this type of action is carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u47	Thank you. Mrs Tapia, I had asked the lehendakari in this case, but you answer me, for the opinion. I'm not just talking to him about legality, that's what I meant, and about enforcing a treaty and enforcing legality. I'm talking about ethics and humanism. Referring to the lehendakari, which I was going to refer to, I believe that they are also values shared by your Government that of ethics and humanism, and I was asking you for that, for the opinion, and I think we can agree there. Because is it ethical to continue selling weapons to a country like Saudi Arabia, which no longer violates human rights in Yemen, but is a fierce dictatorship? Is it ethical that we look elsewhere while arms are being sent from our ports to unjust wars in which innocent human beings die? Is this the image we want to convey from Basques and Basques? Is this the image of Basque Country, where Saudi Arabia also has a predominant role? Is it consistent? Nik ez went for you. It is true, Mrs Tapia, that we do not have those powers, neither in ports nor in what you said. From the ports, they will count on us to defend that it is transferred to our Autonomous Community, but when do we have it? What are we going to have it for?, to comply with the Arms Trade Treaty, or will we continue to be a port of exit for weapons for wars and dictatorships? That's the question: we want competition, but why do we want competition? I say that because there are many Basques and many Basques concerned about this subject. There have been mobilizations this summer. We have a great example of the Ina firefighter's conscientious objector, but I do not think he has heard it, and this answer confirms it to me, no request from the Basque Government to the Government of Spain for greater control of what is being exported from our ports. Greater control over what is being exported, and compliance with state legislation. Interestingly, we have not heard much about that secret treaty signed by the Spanish Government and the Government of Saudi Arabia. There is no competence, Mrs Tapia, but the political will, expressed many times in statements (even in the press, not even an institutional declaration is needed), has much value, an important symbolic value at times like this and in places where we have no competence, like this. And I also believe that it would be a good medal, and certainly even a good medal – if you want to use that word, or any other equal better – in the human development policy that is inserted in the government program and in the internationalization strategy as well, that we have criticisms for the competitiveness side. That is why I also take the last few seconds to announce that we will present an initiative that demands greater control of the international arms trade, and that also requires a symbolic declaration and a symbolic break in the Basque Government's political and trade relations with Saudi Arabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u48	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u49	Mr Martínez, as you said, in values we can agree very much, but in this case it is a matter of analysing what is happening in certain trade treaties. Obviously, you have to analyse them from many points of view, I agree with you, but, once those trade treaties are legal, little can be done. If we have to work to ensure that all those values are in those trade treaties, that is all that ethics. That's where we have to work. And for our part, I must point out to you that in the strategic plan for corporate internationalization that is being developed and that has been presented together with the Basque Country strategy, a number of ethical and very concrete values appear in the development of corporate internationalization. That you have no doubt that we are considering it and we will have it in the future. And, of course, I share one very important thing with you, and it is that at the moment, if we have to do something about it, we must continue to work to ensure that the transfer of the ports of Bilbao and Pasaia is in the hands of this Basque Government. We will have to continue to work on this, in order to establish a series of very concrete actions in which we can have competence, in which we can not only analyse the safety of the material being taken to other countries, but also analyse very well under what conditions it is being carried out, for whom and how. It is no less true that on many occasions we have also worked with trade agreements that existed with third countries where our companies have been damaged, and you know it, because there have been many cases in which machine-tool companies in this country have been considered to be exporting military material. And there we also have to work, not only in the event of arms being exported, but otherwise in the case of materials that are really important to those third countries not being considered military and those treaties being perfectly organized. I think that's where we have to focus, and not just on the last link in the chain, which is where they come out and under what conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about the creditors of La Navalo." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, today the contest of creditors of the Naval is presented. From Elkarrekin We believe that the Government can and should have an active attitude in this competition, and even more so, we believe that the Government should take part in this venture. Over the past few weeks, even months, his Government has shown in the media erratic, dubious and even contradictory statements about the role that the Government must play not only in the competition, but in the future of La Naval. That is why I am asking you today what strategy this government will follow from today, and what actions it will take to ensure the future and industrial activity in the shipyard.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u53	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, I think that's making fun of it, and we've talked about it in the same way. Today we're in the worst condition. Today the creditors are introduced, and it's the worst situation for us, for workers and activity, and we've said that over and over again. So, what are we supposed to do now? Well, it's the same thing you do in all cases like that, that's how you behave, that's to be the most helpful in this case. What's happening right now? Once the creditor contest starts, there's a conjugator, a judge, and that's where the stockholders and workers come in, and funy must help to find a way out. What, in this case? Well, there are two ways, either one or today's stockholders decide to continue or, if that's not the case, you need to find another alternative. But not from today, but it's been a long time since you've been in front of the creditors' tournament, looking for that new asset, someone else to show up at this creditor competition. It is, therefore, the work that we always do and that we will continue to do today, starting today, which is the worst of the scenarios: looking for the best solution for the shipyard, the one that maintains the maximum activity and the one that maintains the maximum employment. But for all this we have had to work on the pre-competition, so that the situation is as orderly as possible, and from now on collaborate in seeking that solution. Because we are not an active actor directly involved: we work in agreement with the shareholders, with whom he will come, with the competition manager, with the judge and with the workers, someone who works to get that solution. And he was also talking to me about participation, and I want to make it very clear, very clear (the lehendakari said and I said it myself): we can only take that participation, and we are willing to do so, once the competition is over, once the company leaves the competition. Because only with the hypothetical announcement that we were going to take or that we were thinking of perhaps taking a turn, is there a letter sent by the Directorate-General for Competition of Europe to the Government of the State and the Basque Government pointing out to us: "Be careful, it is a company in crisis, and you cannot participate now". Not now, but once the contest is out we are ready to study it, always by the hands of the shareholders, the new investor and the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u55	Mrs Tapia, without wishing to miss you – you know it's not so – that the Lehendakari has not answered this question makes it very clear what this government's commitment is to La Naval and to the 2,000 families that depend on your decision. The competition of creditors will have its course and will have its own dynamics, in that we agree, but the future of La Naval needs four premises, four conditions: the first, that it reduces its debt, and for that it is established the competition of creditors; the second, that it has new financing; the third, that there are new investors or owners, and the fourth, that it maintains the workload that it currently has. The Government can and must play an active role. You say no. We consider it to be. It must play an active role, and it must be made available to the competition administration to try to ensure each and every one of these issues. But I would say more: the government should lead – now I have the doubt that it will – all the activities that are intended to assure potential investors that in this country we are all with La Naval. And for this it is necessary to set up a working table, a stable table, at which all the parties involved are involved, the representation of the workers, the institutions (all the institutions, not only the Basque Government, but all those who want to involve themselves). Because it is necessary to show the world, to show investors, that here we row all and all in the same direction. And it doesn't seem that way, it doesn't seem that way until now. You say, "The government cannot take an active part in the Naval." That's not true. The Government may submit a binding purchase proposal for the assets of the company, which may be submitted in the context of a creditor's tender. It can and must present it, because otherwise the contest will move from the common phase to the liquidation phase, and then it is when possibly the Naval has much less future than now. But I'll tell you more. Since 2014 the Government knows what the difficulties of La Naval are, knows them perfectly, and so far they have played to hide. But that time has passed, Mrs. Tapia. Right now it's no longer time to hide, it's no longer time to shut up, it's time to commit. That's why I'm asking you from here to commit and to do it firmly. And this firm commitment includes taking part in La Naval, which, as you know, is legal, and if you don't know it, ask for the relevant legal reports. What I'm telling you is that you try, because if you don't try to save La Naval, the families won't understand it, the Left Margen won't understand it, the industrial sector of this country won't understand it. The Left Margin does not deserve less, and the reality is that to this day you are the only thing that you are showing are doubts that still lead to the Naval more to its precipice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u57	Mr. Becerra, reality is not what you want it to be, but what it is. And it's not the one you interpret, it's the one you are. The commitment of the lehendakari, I believe, responded in this same place in the general policy debate. If you think it's unimportant, I'm surprised. I think he responded here directly; he alluded to La Naval, and he answered clearly and clearly. Two, active role. Active role not now, is that the Government has been working not now, but a long time. A long time. Why do you think a number of investors have appeared over this period... Is that what you're talking about? Do you think they've fallen from heaven? For the government has worked to make them appear, to make them exist, so that it can be organized... Like they don't exist! Well, you may not be aware that several investors have visited the Naval over the past few months, but please know, because they have existed. Well, the government is actively working to, one, order the contest, collaborate to order the contest, because the Naval remains its shareholders, and collaborate to seek investors. That is our active role, it has been and will continue to be, you have no doubt. Hide us, never. And we continue to work with shareholders, with new investors and workers. Today, without going any further. The last meeting with the workers, today. And there are permanent contacts. We don't hide, but be careful...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u58	Thank you... Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group, the project of ESS-Purbao, the 21st of July 2017, concerning his condition." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u59	Good morning, President, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, education councillor and president of the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council. Again we talk about ESS-Bilbao, one of the scientific projects framed in another of the most important scientific projects in Europe. But with a sour feeling, counselor. Because there have been three moments in recent months, three moments that have recently marked the situation of the ESS-Bilbao programme. On the one hand, the signing of the agreement of the Basque Government and the Government of Spain concerning the conditions for the entry of Basque infrastructure into the European source of neutrons by spreading of Lund, Sweden (the sweet moment). Now come two bitter moments, Counsellor: on the one hand, the reduction of EUR 20 million in the expected contribution from the Basque Government (EUR 20 million, almost 50% of that investment by the Basque Government), and, on the other hand, the irrevocable resignation announced – it seems that it will take place in the coming weeks – of the Executive Director of the ESS-Bilbao. That is to say, good news (the commitment of the Government of Spain by the ESS-Bilbao makes us enter the ERIC programme, in the consolidation of that project), but the other is that reduction, that position of the Basque Government in peius in relation to a project apparently as important as the ESS-Bilbao. And that is why we ask you, in one exercise we are realistic: what reasons have led the Basque Government to reduce its contribution to the technological and innovation programme which constitutes ESS-Bilbao by almost 50%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u61	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Barrio, to answer to the question which you make of the decisions made about the ESS-Bubauer, as I have so often done in this legislature, let me make it clear to you that this sharer was created with two principal ends: First, that ESS-Gurbao would be the residence of the neuter source of Europe by sprites in the State; and, on the other hand, it was the object of chascidating the development of the acceleration of particles, and of the science and technology specialised in the development of productive particles. Two commitments, and he's still being both. The Euscal Autonomical ESS-Gurbao, by means of the centre of the ESS-Gabao, assists the construction of the European fountain by Lund, in order that the source should begin at the age of 2025. Well, it must be remembered that this contribution will create a quota for using the European infrastructure during the whole time that it is running. And this or that period of use can only be taken advantage of if Euskal Autonomy is prepared for it, that is, if it conforms to a fundamental condition: Euscatistic science and technology systems, our research centers and teams, the university, the technological centers, and the science industry must have a real capacity for using this infrastructure. After all, what does he want to do if he doesn't have enough quotas for using a scientific infrastructure from Euskka if he doesn't have enough scientific, technological ability to use it? That's what we're going to do with a special economic effort. We have to note that ESS-Murbata, connected with the second goal, has achieved but few results, and the Eusk0 has gone by and has suggested that the leadership should be the leader of that review. Thus, in order to strengthen and create the knowledge of Eucharin, he will assist his scientific policy by means of technology, industry, and use the instruments and contrivances he has in his hands, and, if he can, establish new instruments and programs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u63	Thank you, President. Counsellor, do you not believe that these poor results could have been due to a lack of ambition on the part of the Basque Government? I think so, because we are talking about what we were talking about: it was going to be 82 million; now, because of that breach or that fall of the Basque Government, it is going to be 62 million. I mean, how do you link that 20 million euro rebate with what you've talked about about these great collaboration commitments, these collaboration projects with the university, with Euskadi's technological infrastructure? How does that link with that future collaboration with local industry, with the scientific industry, what we've always talked about? I mean, lowering that investment is how we're gonna make sure those projects are better, I don't know, more realistic? Of course there's capacity! We have been told that there is a perfect capacity for ESS-Bilbao to develop the role that it had to be playing already, and in that sense there has been a lack of ambition on the part of the Basque Government. But I want to tell you one thing. It is that this situation, this reduction in investment, is that it does not house, it does not connect with the general policy discourse that we attended the other day and with the approaches of Mr Lehendakari. That is, this goes directly against, or reduces, or decreases, is deficient in relation to Plan 4I. That is, if something is investment, innovation, internationalisation and industry (Lehendakari's Plan 4I), those four are exactly the ESS-Bilbao. Four are because they are investment, innovation, internationalisation and industry, and contact with industries and contact with the technological fabric of the Basque Country. That's it. To lower, to reduce this investment 20 million euros precisely goes in line with the flotation of one of the flagship ships of our scientific activity in this Basque Country and of industrial and technological development. It's exactly against all that. Mrs Uriarte, the ESS-Bilbao company committee recently asked a number of questions. I do not know if you have answered them, but in any case, Mrs Uriarte, we are absolutely disappointed with that reductionist attitude of the Basque Government in relation to that key infrastructure for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u65	Mr Barrio, I believe that in this House we have repeatedly explained the reasons why what we expected in the field of neutron science has not been developed in Euskadi. As I said, we maintain our full commitment to Europe, both with regard to the construction of the European source of spread and to the strengthening and generation of Euskadi's knowledge. And, as I have already advanced, the balance of knowledge generation and scientific-technological and industrial capacity of ESS-Bilbao with the environment is very scarce. You will understand that this scenario is not appropriate, as at the moment our capacity to use European infrastructure is far below what our time of use will be in 2025. I mean, our economic contributions didn't have the results we wanted, and we're talking about public money. After several meetings and interviews with the General State Administration and the ESS Bill of Sale, we both decided that we should adapt our contributions to the commitment to Europe. Also, I'd like to remark that the two administrations have confirmed in 100 percent the amount required to contribute to the agreement of Lunden. Finally, I'd like to insist that RedMork has shown the commitment to help us build European ESS projects every moment, and that's what we're doing. Today, as long as this discussion is on, it's a part of the meeting of the New York Board of directors of the New York Board. Y las razos son muy claras: "Nostros pretecian nuestro system de nitronica para poder utilzar la fuente como es debido."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The tenth point in the subject list: "To question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect, made to the head of the Board of Education, the proposition made in the sactorial Table of Education concerning the influence of the 2018 Prediction." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u67	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, ma'am. On September 27th, you made a proposal at the table of education, in response to professors' proclamations and mutations. We have to admit, from a long time ago, that we saw a gesture of shikeb on your side, although the proposal wasn't integrated. But, of course, we'll see if the Board of Education really has a will or not in the budgets, because this plan is to handle all the plots of the Causes and Estates, it has to be a dot in the budget, and, of course, it's gonna have to be an increase in comparison with 2018's Precedences, to make that plan a reality. So, Mrs. Chief, what's she going to do in the budgets of 2018, she's going to do the proposal she's made on the literary factory table by the Department of Education?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u69	President andrea. Mrs. Ubera, we are engaged in a subject connected with the recent budgetal proposal made in the literary table of education. In this I believe that this proposition, and that its contents are to be mentioned; for beyond their economic influence, they have a value which cannot be doubted of, and a work done in schools, and likewise on the view of improving the conditions of our teachers. But before "what" it's important to develop. I'll explain. As important a matter as to be able to make a larger public offer for this law under the scope of teachers, the Board of Education introduces propositions proposed in the sactorial table of September 29th; for from the minimum number which was originally proposed, in May 3000, this year, it has become 5,000 jobs at this time. And, as I was saying, the number increases at this moment, because now we have occasion to do it; for the regulation of the state which makes this possible has changed, and as we have always defended it, we shall offer the greatest number of jobs with complete legal security. Therefore, and by the same term you ask, it is a highly important improvement. Besides, it's jobs that don't only concern the rate of reposition. On the other hand, what we have always wanted is that the rate of provisionalness is 10 points smaller than the present, by dropping from 27% to 17% of this law, with a wager for stability, after all. But, besides this, he introduces another important subject, and also a new proposition: To replace the regime from the first day in Education. In fact, after we have examined the legislation which is now in use, we believe that we can make an interpretation in that line. In any case, we wish to remind ourselves that we have agreed with the unions in this matter in 2010, because we have resurrected the legislation of the state which reduced this government of substitutions. Ms. Ubera, a improvement is a step forward, I'm coming with you, but it's not a little progress. We think it's a big step forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. To answer, Mrs. Uberé has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u71	Mrs Harper, you didn't answer me. I asked you for a definite answer, at least a million. And planning is going to take a step, take it to reality, take it to practice, if it has a dotation and a growth. Otherwise, these contents, those contents which you have remarked as so important to you, will remain in nothing, will be nothing. These content requires a dowry to complete this planning. Compared to the 2017 Prevences, it takes 2018 to increase, because otherwise replacements can't be made from the first day. Otherwise, those squares in public offer cannot be filled. We've seen what happened in the 2017 Preventures. There were already public work offers, but then they didn't get it on the template. We'll see that in the budget, in fact, there'll be a test of fire. We'll see in the budget that this government really has the priority of education. We'll see about these budgets if the movement you actually made is left in a single gesture or if there really is a change in the direction. We'll see it in the budget for the dialogue or negotiations this Board of Education has a real will. And we'll see in the budgets that this government will continue to submit to the Spanish Government as it is now, or will actually make a move in the direction and start working for this people with the state view. Because if a government has for its people, for its society, the equality of choice, social cohesion, social justice, it requires a strong education system, it needs an advanced system. And that's your responsibility and it's up to you. We're willing to contribute, but it's your responsibility. And here it is time to act responsibilities and act responsibilities instead of constantly throwing empty words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u73	Ms. Ubera, I want to emphasise a point that worries me, which is: you plan on your question, whether it is a true proposition or a mere pun. The following point I want to highlight: This proposition, and the manner of development, is proposed and cultivated in the sactorial table of education, and is also called to be shared in that table, not only by the Board of Education, but also by all the members of the community who represent it in the assembly of the professors of the civil servants. These points are thus discussed on the table, and, if necessary, are allowed. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to question the work of that table by interfering with the will and commitment the Administration has shown. And I say this, I think, because we must respect this space of discussion and negotiation (of the sactorial table, of administration and union). In this circle, I think, the confidence placed in the proposition of the division must be read, and, believe me, the proposition is proposed as an engagement to the division. I'll tell you in that ring, and I'll say this. The proposed statement, of course, provides sufficient resources, and, as far as they have economic content, the budget project will be added to this Chamber where we are working. It's everybody's responsibility to say yes to the budget.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation by Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the Julian Groups of police and the Chief of the Self-wealths, concerning the Indeservations of the Laws of the Basque Places." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. A year and a half ago, on April 14, 2016, the Official Gazette of the Basque Country published the text that this House had approved, the Local Institutions Act of Euskadi, possibly the most important law that was passed in the last legislature. If not the most important, it was certainly the most important, and politically with great significance. She was the most wanted, that is for sure, because there had been many attempts to bring her forward and the majorities of Parliament had not given enough of themselves, until we finally had that Municipal Law in 2016. It entered into force the following day, on 15 April of last year. Those days, Mr. Erkoreka, you were very happy. I congratulated you, because I know that you did bet very strongly on that law and left yourself behind in the previous negotiations to draft the bill that was brought to the House and then in the House proceedings, until the law finally went ahead. It is an important milestone, and it is very important for all local entities or institutions, for the municipalities of the community. The implementation of the law logically the first thing that has to be clarified, and this is reflected in the law, is the financing of the municipalities, and of the councils, and of the gangs... of all the local institutions that we have in the Autonomous Community. In order to clarify how to finance all the competences of the municipalities, the legal text itself – as proposed by the Government and approved in the House – envisaged that through the Basque Finance Council a report, a study, a document on the different levels of competence of the different Basque institutions, who exercises the competition and how much they cost, how much is being spent on each of these competences. With the conclusions of that report, which will be presented to the Basque Finance Council, a bill amending the current Act on Contributions would be brought to this House. It is something that the law demands, it is something that the House has wanted because it has approved it, it is something that the general boards of the three historical territories are demanding, and so in all of them since that time have been approving various declarations or motions that reflect this request to the Basque Finance Council. The law in its transitional provisions gave a period of one year for the preparation of such a task force and the preparation of the report. That deadline ended in April last year, and the report was not completed within the time frame envisaged, it was delayed. How long? We don't know. In July of this year the deputy general of Álava told us that by mid-October (by 14 or 15, when the Basque Finance Council meets) this study was done, and that the draft for the Law on Contributions would be brought before the end of the year for approval by this House and that it would come into force in 2018. We are at a time when I assume that no one has deceived the deputy general of Álava and that is so, that next week (I think it is not 14 or 15, it seems to me that it is the 11th) the Basque Finance Council is meeting, and that you (I say because it seems to me that you are a member of that council) will carry that report and that draft will be approved, which will then have to come to the House to amend the Law on Contributions. Pending this amendment of the Act on Contributions are the out-of-pocket funding rules for the three historic territories, which have also been unable to change because that report was not made and the Act on Contributions was not made. And we are going a little late, because at the moment, the same thing as you in the government are working (Mr Azpiazu) I assume that two hundred per cent by drawing up the draft budgets, the same are the parliaments and all the municipalities. I mean, what are we gonna do next year, how much money are we gonna have and what are we gonna spend it on? Because they have to approve it so that on 1 January they can have that document that is fundamental to the life of all institutions. But, of course, there's a problem. Next week you will decide which is or what you believe is going to be the collection, and how it will be distributed between the Basque Government and the outlaws, and then it will be the outlaws who will have to tell the municipalities how much of that revenue forecast is going to be so that they can make their budgets. And you know, Mr Erkoreka, because you know very well the municipal life, that according to that Basque Finance Council the deputies call the representatives of the municipalities (the law obliges them to do so) and tell them what has been decided and how much money they will have. And the next day or two days of that meeting every city council, every municipal secretary, is calling the deputies to give me the exact figure I have to put in the budgets. Because our town halls basically live on the money that the deputies give them, and they can't make budgets if they don't know what money they have. What I am asking you today, Mr Erkoreka, is why this report arrives now in October. I hope you will tell me that next week you are presenting the report and draft of the Act on Contributions, which will be here before the end of the year so that it can be approved. I'd be surprised if you told me otherwise. But they've skipped the law. That is to say, so many years waiting for the Municipal Law, so that, according to the table, the first one who jumps it is the government, or the Basque Finance Council, that gives me the same thing. The Government, after all. And I say the law has been blown because it gave them a one-year deadline, which ended in April, and they didn't. Why didn't they do it? Why are they going to cause that breakdown to all the municipalities, who don't know how they have to make budgets now, to the parliaments? Because you have to spread the cake; first you have to calculate the size of the cake and then you have to make the distribution, but we no longer have the old rules. Now we have new rules, the Law of Contributions will be different, I hope, and the distribution that each of the delegations makes will also be different. Those outside distribution rules will not be able to pass for the coming year, because it has not given them time, because you have not complied and in April that report was not, and it has not given time for those rules to be processed. They will enter into force in 2019. What was the cause? I ask because I've thought about it many times and I can't find the reason why. I understand that it is not easy, because here we are talking about that, if the percentages vary, what is given to one will be taken away from another, and no one likes to be taken away from what has been handled so far. It is a delicate situation, but the House has asked for it to be done, and the chambers of the three historic territories have also asked for it. Why are you late? What is the reason for the delay of those six months so that this new regulation does not come into force until next year? That is my question, what is the purpose of this violation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u76	Eskerrik asko, Ruiz de Arbulo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u77	Good morning, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I want to reassure you with my answer, and I hope that after listening to you you will have another impression on what you call a violation of the law. That, by the way, said in passing, the People's Party is concerned about the violation of the law is fine, but I would like it to be concerned about all the breaches of all the laws. Well, I sincerely share with you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the need to design and approve a new Law on Contributions. You know that on December 16th, as soon as I took office as a finance and economic adviser, I had to admit that it took more time to draft the new Law on Contributions, and that was how I had transferred it to the three deputies-general and to Eudel. I agree with you, it is necessary to design and accept a new law of contributions. I also stated, as you will recall, that the Government needed to address a number of issues that conditioned its development with guarantees of future functionality. The first and most relevant, as you indicate in your approach, is the mandate set out in Law 2/2016 of 7 April of local institutions of Euskadi, to draw up, as you said, precisely a report on the competences of the three institutional levels and their financing, whose conclusions will have to be transferred to the rest of the extremes referred to in the Law of local institutions of Euskadi, as you also said, to the new Law on Contributions. The municipalities, which are now represented on the Basque Finance Council, must also participate in the drafting of this new law. Thus, in February this year, a working group was set up and the report is being developed. It is not easy, as you have also pointed out. The group formed with representatives of each and every one of the institutions that we are part of the Basque Finance Council has had a working methodology, has drafted an indicative index of the possible contents of the report, and has already identified all the documentation necessary to configure the bulk of the report, which, as you indicate, is a very important study. And believe me, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, if I tell you that it is also not easy to approach a debate involving the three different institutional levels, in which the complicated balance between the financial coverage of the various public policies, defining among all their priorities, and the legitimate aspirations of each administration to have the best funding to cover the services that each of them provides to citizens. It is not easy to draw near to a dispute which affects three different institutions, considering that the complex equilibrium between the financial appearance of different public policies is to be performed there. I also stated that the Basque Government believes that it is vital to design a substantive law, based on institutional consensus and that it generates financial sufficiency to address the priorities of the coming years. A model of stability should be sought, taking into account the socio-economic characteristics of each territory. We have to design a form of stability that considers the social characteristics of each country. We're on it. Here we are, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. I assure you that this is a work that is being carried out in a thorough manner, and that is why, indeed, it goes with a delay that is real, because indeed, as I said, the date of 16 April was a date that was there, but we understand that it is more important to do well. Do not hesitate, therefore, that I prefer to sin cautiously and to design the best Law of Contributions for Euskadi. And look, it has coincided with the time that Basque institutions have been able to resolve ten years of financial disagreements with the State Government, so we have a much more predictable horizon when it comes to making economic estimates. I am referring to the signing of the agreements in the Joint Economic Concert Commission (the Five-Year Cup Law and the Economic Concert Law), which bring a fiscal peace to Euskadi, which allows the report to be further developed in a much more realistic manner, with greater certainty and security. As you know, these laws also have to pass through Congress and the Senate to be passed, which will happen this same year, as it was signed with the Government of Spain, with Mr Montoro. It is vitally important for the Basque Government and for the outside parliaments that this issue be dealt with as soon as possible. The five-year-old law of the dome and the Act of the Economical Covenant must be passed from the Congress and from the Senate to be admitted. They think it's very important to do it as soon as possible. I shall therefore put forward again, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the preparation of a solid, rigorous and consensual report between all the institutions involved, which contributed to the drafting of a good Act on Contributions, which is the important thing, to the formal fulfilment of a temporary period, with all the respect that this Parliament's mandate deserves for that period. I hope we can, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u79	With all due respect, Mr Azpiazu, I hoped Mr Erkoreka would answer me. I had already been told you were possibly going to answer me. It is not that I do not accept your explanations, but, as you have rightly indicated in your reply, it came to the Government on 16 December, and those work had not begun. That is why I was asking Mr Erkoreka, because Mr Erkoreka was in the previous government, he was when the law was passed. That it is not a baladi mandate; that it is a legal norm, that must be fulfilled. And we can't stop enforcing a law to say, "No, we're going to do a very good job." Of course, we're going to do a very good job... because it was in February when the working group meetings started, which by April had to be over. Why don't they start working from April 2016 to February 2017? Because I can understand that you could explain that by saying that there has been a change of government, and that until the new government arrives and takes possession it is not going to start, but that answer is not real, because it is an absolutely technical working team, and the mandate of the law does not say "within a year, unless there are elections." No; he said that within one year it would be done. And the technicians might have been working since April, but they weren't summoned, and they didn't start working. You tell me you're gonna be late. I thought they were going to submit that report next week, but you tell me no, it's not done. With this we do not have the Law of Contributions that will come into force in 2018. This does not mean that we will be able to have the corresponding outside rules for the distribution of these funds between the various levels of municipal or other local competition. Then I ask myself again: Why hasn't it been done? There has to be a cause! Because, when the law was drafted, the bill said it was within one year. It was already known that it was a very complex work, that it was a very delicate issue, but a deadline was set, and it was approved by the House. But it was the time frame proposed by the Government, which was the one responsible for promoting such work. And a one-year deadline is quite a comfortable one, and it hasn't been done. You are voluntarily failing to comply with the law, with the excuse that you want to do a very good, very fine and very consensual job. And you're not responsible, because, as you well say, you came here in December, and you've done everything you can but you haven't given time. That is why I was asking Mr Erkoreka, who was at the Basque Finance Council and from his department could have started this work at that time. The previous Government should have done so. But, of course, it is not just the responsibility of this government and this House; it is that the deputies-general have to answer to the three general meetings of the three historic territories. Why have they deceived the deputy general of Álava, who comes out saying that for the 18th is done? Now, now, now! Someone told him it was going to be like this, or he pretends to fool everyone else, I don't know. If you're in... Mr. Erkoreka, you'll tell me. I love that you don't answer me in the rostrum but do it from the seat. [[Barres]] I really do not know if I am addressing you, I am addressing Mr Erkoreka or Mrs San José, because, of course, it is changing the debate continuously. Someone cheated on him, or he pretended to cheat on everyone. The Bizkaia General Councils have also requested it, and the Gipuzkoa General Councils have also requested it, but it is not done. That's my question: Why have you been late all this time?, why did you not start working from April 2016 to February 2017, knowing the complexity of the issue and the complexity of that report, and how difficult it would be to reach consensus? That is the answer I hope, either from the seat or from the rostrum, I will be given by the members of the Basque Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u81	I will try to answer you, Mr Arbulo, although I do not think you are very open today to understand what we are telling you. He says we have to comply with the law. Indeed, I agree! I agree. And before I told him we were delaying the fulfillment of this commitment to make a good law. I hope that you are slowing down in that commitment of other laws to make good transfers, for example. But, well, aside from this issue, there has been no problem, Mr Arbulo, so far, with the Act on Contributions. The current Act on Contributions, from 2007 to 2011... that is, we have been in extension for six years, and it has not posed any problem for any institution so that it can work perfectly, because the extension mechanism is provided for. The new law will pretend or attempt, if it can, to change the current situation with regard to financial relations between institutions, but, of course, with the current law there is no problem, and Araba also has no problem with having sufficient resources to finance its policies. So, I don't think drama should be done. The law works, the current one. Is there going to be another one? Yes, we will. When? The sooner. How? A good law. And I hope so too. I would like to reiterate, Mr Arbulo, that I am obviously aware of the delay, but I must tell you that I prefer to have a good law, after a good reflection, rather than a bad law. It's not easy. He was like, "Why are you late?". Well, the electoral issue of course has been important. There have been many factors! You know that this analysis is done to analyse the distribution of resources between institutional levels, and this is not a peaceful issue. As you know, all institutions want to defend the maximum. The point is that it is a hundred, and, of course, as a hundred, if someone has more than before the other one will have less, with which it will have to be very weighed and will have to be very studied, because otherwise no one is willing to change the situation. But there is no institutional breakdown, much less. Do not doubt that the technical team is developing the report and that it will do well, even a little later. The primary objective, I insist, is the elaboration and consensus adoption of a new law on contributions, a law of substance, based on institutional consensus and generating financial sufficiency to address the priorities of the coming years. Financial sufficiency for all three institutional levels, local authorities of course as well. The institutions that we make up the Basque Public Finance Council share that same objective, Mr Arbulo, do not have the slightest doubt: to be able to draft a law in which we all feel comfortable and allow us to be faithful to the commitments made with the citizenry. A law of contributions that assures our present and paves the way for our future. We share the purpose of making the laws which these institutions constitute the Basque Council of the Common-wealths, with the following characteristics: a law which will enable all these institutions to be at once comfortable, and which will allow them to be faithful to the engagement agreed with the people, to ensure our present and to extend the course of our future destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea, a member of the Basque Group, made to the head of Economics and Sub-Separations, some Esscal companies, as well as La Navale, about the crisis." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councilwoman, on 5 September we asked you to appear urgently to explain the crises of certain companies that have continued to appear in the media throughout the summer and after the summer, and because we understood that the government should explain in this Parliament what it was doing or what measures were proposed to solve these problems. The case is that, as the counselor knows, it has already been over a month. In the press the issues began to come out in July, August, September..., and this is October, and it seems to me that the Counsellor does not intend to appear in this Parliament until the middle of next month to explain the government's action against the companies in crisis, which, according to Lehendakari, affected more than thirty-five companies and affected more than 6,000 people. And so what we want to know is why the Commissioner has so much reluctance to appear in this Parliament to explain her actions, if she is having them, to solve the problems of these companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Damborenea, I have to share with you and this House, of course, the surprise at the realization of this question. What's the surprise? Because, of course, I knew of the existence, of the hypothetical existence of this request by the press, but no one has contacted, on behalf of the committee, any member of my department (of course not with me) to proceed with the appearance, until last October 2nd, Monday, the same day that you register this question. You know perfectly well that I have no inconvenience coming to this House. Moreover, once the chair of the committee has been contacted to make this appearance, we have set the day. But not just that. I didn't show up because I haven't been called. Because he also knows that I have appeared, since last September, on three occasions in this Commission for Economic Development and Infrastructures: to explain the law of energy sustainability, to explain the law of ports, to explain the law of entrepreneurship. And next day 16 we have set a date to explain the industry plan. And I hope that we will also have an opportunity to talk about these issues, although in the future we will also talk specifically about companies in crisis, some in competition and others not. No inconvenience in coming, quite the contrary, and it shows that within the month and a half I will have come four times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u87	That is precisely why, because the Commissioner has appeared in this Parliament in the last 15 days three times to discuss other issues, we disagree with the chairman of the committee when he told us that it was a workload problem for the committee and Parliament. Why? Because, the same thing that has appeared for some things, could have appeared for others. And, let's see, I believe almost everything, Madam Counsellor, and I believe you at 99,999 %, but I know and I know that, according to an initiative in the register of Parliament, the government receives it ipso facto, without going through the Bureau. Therefore, you know and your department knows, and you know since September 5th (not only because we announce it publicly, because I know that you receive it), you know that we had asked for that appearance. But I have to tell you something else. Apparently it's an uncomfortable appearance to talk about these issues... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, not only have you been there three times; you're going to be there more times. But it is not until 13 November that he will come to talk about the companies in crisis in this Parliament, which is what we were told the other day in the committee. But what surprises me most is not that we have asked for it and it seems to be an annoying appearance for the counselor. What we don't understand is that the councilwoman herself, motu proprio, with whom she has been falling since July, August, September... and we continue in October, neither the councilwoman nor the government... I mean, the first explanation in all these months of the government on this matter we have had in the answer of a previous question, of the councilwoman herself! This is the first time in several months that the government has come to Parliament to talk about this issue! And what is strange to us is that, at her own request, it did not seem urgent enough that thirty-six companies, as the Lehendakari said, more than 6,000 people affected, should not be an issue on which to give no explanation or explain what is being done in this Parliament. I said it the other day, right here in the rostrum, I'm sure the counselor is working like crazy to find investors for all companies, and I hope she's very lucky. But what cannot be done is for the government to resist appearing in Parliament to explain to us parliamentarians what is going on, and what is being done to solve these problems. And I know he's been there three times, and he's going to be there more, but we're still asking him to come over to talk about these issues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u89	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, the commission's work is established by the commission itself. Therefore, it is not I who has to teach anyone lessons, nor analyze how to do that work. This appearance is just as annoying or unnerving as the others are. I have no problem, and you know it, in appearing to tell everything that is being done by the government. But it seems that the crisis in some industries has just surfaced now, when we have been in the last legislature not with four companies in crisis, but with an impressive situation, which fortunately at the moment, and as much work as has been done by them above all, is coming out. Therefore, no inconvenience, and we will work, and we will count it, and we will talk, as we have done not now, not in these two months or in these three, but of course in all the time that I have been in this legislature. And I know that those who preceded me in office have done similar things. Therefore, we will specify everything that is being done. And the day I present the industrial plan, there is also a section in that industrial plan, as you know, which is called "SMEs and firms in difficulty", in which I will also have the opportunity to explain what the procedure is and how you work with companies in difficulty. Because the difficulties can be of many kinds, one in competition with creditors, who are public, and other difficulties of other kinds that do not become public and that, of course, you have to treat very carefully, as you know. Competition procedures have a well-established procedure, but there are many other situations that need to be dealt with in a much more concrete way, and we will have the opportunity to see them on the 16th. However, we will also have an opportunity – because I have no inconvenience, I repeat – to talk about everything that is necessary, with the committee and with the Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Apéritation, of Myria Kortja, Ibañez EH Collectors to the Chief of Commons and Societys, concerning the unfortunate stage of covering which the labourless EAEss are suffering." Ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u91	Good morning, ma'am, thank you. Partners, members of the government and Mrs. Artola generous, old-time day. We've come to this parliament with a local project that won't leave anyone. The conditions of life which are vital require public policy to influence our groups, as has often been shown, and to produce the conditions of life worth living. We're working on it all the time. As we have often repeated, an advanced people keeps and protects their fellow-citizens, and enables them to adapt their projects to their dignity, and likewise protects and protects them. This is supposed to place men and their conditions in the centre of public policy, under the conditions of life. We were delighted to hear the President Urkullu discussing the last discussion of general policy, leaving a few mandrakes behind it, that was the policy and development of the Basque People, and the care of the project, we were glad to hear it. And, of course, if this view has had different points of thread, a people who intends to develop in this direction has the essential nature of promoting social employments and conditions of work, to encourage the best and strongest protection system, and of course it is essential to have the power to encourage politics. But unfortunately, the situation in ours is crude, I dare say it's cruel too. Even if we recognize positive evidence, unemployment is not good for us. After the last month's rise, the facts of this week have indicated that 87 has descended into the Er member, 1,164 people less in unemployment, which is always positive and satisfactory data, but there are still 132,000 people living in that raw state, with the difficulty of living and carrying their projects forward. According to the July data, according to what the profession announces on its website, 70% of those unemployed people don't receive unemployment. Based on other sources, that level is located at 60%. A situation that deteriorates to forced marches, Mrs Artolazabal. The protection of the unemployed is seriously deteriorating in the Spanish State in recent years, because the number of recipients of benefits is much lower than that of the unemployed, which leads to an unbearable increase in the number of people without employment and protection. At the same time, the quality of the benefit is reduced, because the contribution benefits in favour of the care workers are losing weight, with a significant reduction in the amount of expenditure per beneficiary, because the amount of the contribution benefit is also reduced. This situation also particularly affects women, who, in addition to less protected, receive worse benefits. All of this is leading to an accelerated fall in unemployment expenditure in recent months, which demonstrates the harshness of the 2012 reform protection system, and that affects us significantly. Moreover, the development is extremely disturbing, and the reduction of the Spanish Government in readiness is continually descending the level of covering. For instance, from 2009 to 39 points down here, 39. That year the security level was from 69% and today was 30%. 29.000 people were without employment at that time, and at this moment 95,000. In any case, a disturbing, disturbing, scandalal information and failure of a specific public policy. They are a sign, that the attention which is offered to these men and women, behind these data, is very improper, and that which is not in our power, being subject to the State. Being a fundamental subject to the development of any people, and the compositions of men's lives, it is a great disorder about the employment and protection of the people: public politics, passive and active employment policy, the limits between them become more and more vague... Sometimes some programs do not know where they are placed, conditions of unemployment are hardened, receiving supplies, quality, quantity, and programs that are directed to long-term labouring programs are short of duration... The Prepara Program, which has been lying on the headlines in the last few weeks, is probably the most significant indication of this chaos, total, and anabasis, and the most significant indication of the fact that in the last few weeks we are ready to play with differences and changes, with these differences. The margins, the margins that come to increase too much inertia and chaos, and the men and women who are living a very severe experience of life, are themselves the greatest damage to all this anabasis, these people. This member of Errian has no opportunity of causing great damage, and great damage. As the fundamental theme of the development of any people is, the jurisdiction of this member is very limited to promote political, balanced, significant, and decisive policies, and absolutely involuntary. Even in this report about the jurisdictions of the Renaissance, the consistency of these policies was revealed, or, as it appears, a congruence. And there, the labourless eucalyptuses suffer this state, 70%. These handfuls of hands and fairs of Madrid tell us that we are in the presence of a great failure which cannot be repeated and replicated here. These policies of the State are unprotected, and many of the men and women of this country are out of protection at that moment, and as a people, even to us, it is a great failure, and we have a great responsibility to answer it. Fortunately, as a people, we have tried to give an answer to those improper policyes of state, and I think we have invented it; we have been able, above all, to guarantee the revenues by rent, at least, to cover up those great tracts or wounds. We have a powerful tool to cover those screens, and now there are many people in that situation who are in this situation who are profitable to guarantee their incomes. If we remove the poor working people and pensioners and people with special difficulty to work, we can calculate... , you'll know the data better, but there can be about 30,000 people who need to hire incomes for lack of getting those unemployment stations. The thing is that this bandman did his best too. He has to cover so many holes, this band or rubber doesn't amount to any more, and we have about 700,000 people outside that system, many of them, of whom will probably be damaged by those Spanish policies. We believe that it is time to speak of quantum leaps in such matters, to make a leap, to seek consistency and balance; and we believe that we are at the moment of serious reflection on jobs and protection, and that we have time to promote specific, significant, and decisive policies, which will support the development of men in a manner of promotion, promotion, and support their protection. The situation is urgent, the necessity is terrible, and it is time to pass from word to action. We're in a dark tunnel, especially those people in this situation, the future's a little dark, if we don't act otherwise, that other 3000 jobs we saw yesterday are in danger, and we believe that this requires a different kind of operation. And so we ask you, Mrs. Artola generous, what plan is, what is the strategy in front of this situation, which is not just us, as far as we are responsible for it, what is the course of action we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u93	Mr. President, Congressman, chief officers, good morning. In your question to us, Mrs Kortajarena, you convey your concern about the level of coverage that unemployed people have through unemployment benefits or allowances, and, as you have well spelled out in your intervention, this system of unemployment benefits falls within the competence of the State. Therefore, in the attention, which you consider inappropriate, for people in difficult situations, which we share in part, it is up to another administration to manage it. The management of unemployment benefits is not a competition transferred to this Autonomous Community; the conditions, the criteria of access are laid down by the State, and you are perfectly aware of that. Unemployment is the greatest exponent of the economic crisis we have experienced and it is the principle of so many other problems for the people concerned, and the central axis of the state system of unemployment protection is the contributory benefit, with which it seeks to compensate for the loss of wages in unemployment situations. Thus, aid of 70 % of the regulatory base is provided during the first six months of collection and 50 % since the seventh month, when at least 360 days have been quoted in the previous six years, and can be extended up to two years. This limits access to contributory protection for short-term workers. And also the high turnover and short duration of contracts sometimes prevents you from getting enough credit to be entitled to an unemployment benefit, and it affects women and young people in a special way, as you also pointed out. As far as subsidies are concerned, they are intended for those unemployed who do not receive any type of unemployment benefit, are of a lesser amount, and their duration is different, but in any case their scope is temporary. And for this reason, it is clear that the state system of protection is a limited and insufficient system, which increases vulnerability and ultimately social exclusion that strikes the weakest sectors of our society. Given this reality, from the Basque Government we consider it essential to have public tools, such as our income guarantee income, to compensate for this deficit. And in Euskadi the data says this: income guarantee income has managed to alleviate the poverty situations generated by the economic crisis and the poor coverage of the unemployed. The benefits of our income guarantee system directly focus on the population at greatest risk of exclusion, which means that 96.6% of the people in this group are protected, either by the guarantee income or by the ESAs, or by supplementary housing benefits. Therefore, we believe that the Basque protection system is the main social mattress for families at risk of poverty today in Euskadi, and this shows the central role of these benefits to channel and target a model of a cohesive society. If we look at the data from last September, the number of unemployed people in Lanbide's offices has fallen by 1,164, and, as you said, we still have 132,000 unemployed people. The result of this last month has a positive reading, as we approach evolutionary patterns adjusted to the behaviors of unemployment in the years preceding the crisis. The annual balance shows a decrease of 12,070 people standing still, and, after a few months in which a slight deceleration in the rate of annual decline in unemployment had been detected, during the last month the trend is good. They are positive data, and they encourage us to continue along this path, but we cannot yet forget that there are people in Euskadi who are experiencing complex situations, which we must attend to so that no one is left behind, and we are aware of our commitment to the worst who is going through it. If we do an analysis of the people who are registered today in Lanbide, we note that, of the total number of unemployed in September, 28.9% of them are receiving some unemployment benefit or allowance, and 71.1% do not receive any State benefit. But this does not mean that in Euskadi these people are helpless or unprotected. You will agree with me that the Basque protection system plays a positive role in situations that meet the requirements for these people to have help. According to Lanbide's data, and taking into account the different cases of RGI collectors, discounting pensioners and discounting the people who are working and who have a situation that needs to be complemented via RGI, the percentage of unemployed people in the Autonomous Community without any coverage accounts for 24.81 % of the total number of unemployed people. And within this collective we have to take into account that it is a collective that includes different casuistics, with very heterogeneous profiles of people. The Basque system of protection is based on dual law: on the one hand economic aid, and on the other hand labour inclusion through active employment policies. The Government is developing active employment policies and income-guarantee schemes, as well as supplementary housing, to meet the needs of Basque families. The Basque Government, together with other outside and local institutions, has been investing, from 2012 to 2015, EUR 2.3 billion in social policies for inclusion, and EUR 1.3 billion for active employment policies. In contrast, in Euskadi we have invested more than in the communities in our environment in income guarantee benefits. On numerous occasions, I have transferred to them precisely the limits of the State, of the general system of protection of the State, which have given social meaning to the Euskadi income guarantee system. And the effort that this society makes so that people do not fall into social exclusion is reflected in the above-mentioned figures. This network allows people living in Euskadi to stay as long as active policies do not allow them access to a job. We are also aware that the longer these unemployed people spend, the more difficulties they will have to enter the labour market, and that is why active employment policies are the fundamental tool for increasing the employability of people with more difficulty in accessing one, and that is where we have competence at that time. To this end, our action plan in this area covers nine areas: SMEs, social economy and local economic development, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the promotion of youth employment, training for employment, incentives for employment, the renewed rehabilitation programme, public employment, the improvement of the quality of employment, and the improvement of the Basque employment system. And especially our commitment is to reduce youth unemployment, to reduce the number of people over the age of 45, to increase women's access to employment, and to reduce long-term unemployment, as well as groups of disabled people. There are a number of programmes and initiatives aimed at job activation. In this sense, we continue to work towards a Lanbide that is a reference of its services, implementing a model of intervention based on people and companies, and also that is modern and efficient. The percentage of persons entering into employment contracts after having received some service from Lanbide in the form of guidance, training or job offer is around 30%. And various studies tell us that the system of income guarantee and social inclusion is placed on the market: their contribution to the maintenance of the beneficiaries makes them more activating and also reinsertable in the labour market. As stated in the basic document for the amendment of the Income Guarantee Act, this system of protection has been effective for what was designed: to alleviate the shortcomings of the labour and housing market, and the pension and unemployment systems. For this purpose, the RGI was created, to protect these groups and to cover the shortcomings that the State did not pose..., or to protect in the most appropriate way those people who are in unemployment. Beyond the direct impact, as regards the maintenance of the income of a part of the population, it is clear that the income guarantee policy has had a substantial success in the prevention of impoverishment processes in Euskadi, which is equivalent to having contributed to placing most of the Basque population far from the chronisation of poverty. To conclude this first intervention, I would say that what you describe in your question as "unfortunate level of coverage" is perhaps one of the best attentions and employment policies we have in this part of Europe, taking into account who is the competition in unemployment benefits, which you and I have made clear, which is at the moment state. Our commitment, and on the basis of our competences, is to continue working on the double right: on work activation and social protection, when necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u95	Thank you again, and thank you, Mrs. Artola generous, for the contribution we've made. And I dare say that there have been great coincidences in many things I have said and in many things you have said? I have said from the beginning in my interference that thanks to this contribution of the revenue system to guarantee RGI's and incomes, that we are expressly present in another situation, and I have also said, happily, and I think that in an efficient manner this has given us the opportunity of turning this cover round, but that is the prettiest of the state. And I dare say that to answer this challenge as a people, in a proper and decent manner, requires a sort of popular answer. That's what I'd say. The situation is very severe and very crude, and you have here given the data, which is very crude, and you have pointed out the effects of the Madrid Governments and the beauties of that State; they also appear in the newspapers introduced by the Erkoe, and it is therefore obvious that this power may be of importance to us. And we may hide in the comparisons that may be auto-commenculations, or we may hide in a list of programmes and plans, or we may conceal that we have no right to say that we have no jurisdiction, but that the new, independent, co-solidary, cohesion, and economicly developed projects, which the President of the Urkullus mentions in this discussion of general politics will not be able to answer that our position is, as it were, dependent on some others. We'll have to take care of the bad things we've done in a different way. And I believe that even this morning, when Mr. Iturate proposed to the President, and proposed to him in this discussion of general politics, other privileges for self-generacy, I think, are to this end, because our national model, the popular model, is plain from the example of the Spanish State, is quite different from that of the people which is to be handled in any other manner. Therefore what he asks for is a popular answer. And besides need, I think, there are opportunities at this moment, open on the table to answer this discussion as a people. As you have said, the discussion about the profession, this discussion of modernizing profession, the discussion of rent to guarantee revenues, is already on the table, and the employment strategy is also about the rights, and all that is there. He is there, and I dare say, when these paths are made for the auto-organization, and when we come to us, that is to say, in order to encourage another nation. I think that's fundamental, and that's the essential point of making a common strategy. I don't know, Mrs. Artolazabal, whether or not you'd like to one day belong to an independent state, but we do. To us, to our group, yes. We've got it pretty clear. And above all we would like to belong to an independent state precisely because of this type of thing: to be able to manage things differently, to reorient these things that are the things of eating, that other people tell us that we are not interested in. We want to build a decent state, a state that doesn't leave anyone behind or in the gutter. And I think we should agree on that. And for that we need to be able to develop comprehensive employment policies, to have all the powers to do so, and to develop an increasingly comprehensive system of protection. For this purpose, as I said at first, our hands are open again. That's why it wasn't today, well, an argument for that other tone of interference, but to put that proposition on the table. If this is the case, if you come to a local project which will not allow any one, and I dare say that the general purpose was to be so, our hands, in all these discussions, in an integrated manner, to handle these views and those powers which we have, will be open...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u98	Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u99	I believe, Mrs Kortajarena, that we basically and fundamentally share your concern when it comes to putting on the table what challenges we have to face as a country, as a model of a country, to protect people in this situation of unemployment. But I believe that we have been working for many years now, this government, and the party I have been working for many years, with the aim of achieving the greatest autonomy and self-government for this country, and we have gradually been getting transfers that have come to benefit the situation in which we Basque citizens are. And if you want... Well, I will start by telling you that as a government, as a Basque Government, we have already called for the transfer of economic management of the unemployment benefit, as contained in the Zubia report, recently updated and transferred to this Parliament. It states that Euskadi has been performing the functions of labour intermediation and management of active employment policies for more than seventeen years now, and this report considers that the transfer of the management of the unemployment social protection system, which includes specific benefits and subsidies, would greatly improve coordination between regional and state administrations in employment policy and, therefore, in the quality and benefits of unemployed people. The level of social protection for those seeking employment, for those who have an unemployment situation in Euskadi, is higher than that of the environment, and that will have to be acknowledged to me. We are working to continue working and to improve the situation, and the results show this. I believe that our commitment is to all unemployed people, to those who work but do not have sufficient resources, to those who seek a better job than they currently have. And unemployed people who are not covered by the state in Euskadi are protected by the Basque social service. So what we can do right now and what we are doing is to protect that part of Basque society, that part of the Basque unemployed who do not have any coverage because they are not protected from the State, because there are a number of criteria that they have to meet and that is mandatory for all the unemployed throughout the State, whether we agree or not. That is why we have called for the transfer of the transfer, in order to try to improve the protection, the economic management of that transfer. We are giving a vulnerable response. In Euskadi, that 71.1% who has nothing, has no state coverage, is providing it to this country via RGI, which is helping a lot of people, and I think we need to continue working. I would also invite you to, well, in the Congress of Deputies your parliamentary group, like ours, we can ask the state and make, in some way, I do not know, a bet so that those powers that in the Statute of Gernika are not transferred to us, and that would substantially improve the situation of Basque citizens in this country. I just have to remind you that from the skills we do have the capacity to exercise (active employment policies, training and guidance) we are looking after these vulnerable groups. And also from the welfare side, with social benefits, we are looking after these groups. We have therefore already requested their transfer; let us hope that we will soon be able to achieve it, and that we will be able to improve the provision and quality of the services that Basque citizens need.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "Interrapetation by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Populative Groups of the United States, the Plantion, and the head physician of the Housing House, in the quality of the water-mass in this summer of Euskadin, of the public jabs whose effects have been severe in the floral and the aquatic fauna." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Arriola, you and your department better than anyone should know that this spring-summer the press has fed and has been informing us of an important volume of news with a common denominator: polluting discharges into the hydraulic public domain of the Basque Country, discharges that in some cases occur with a certain frequency, and that on other occasions have not been publicized, but that have been produced repeatedly, and some of us know them firsthand. In the last year 72 pollutant discharges in Álava, with 49 in the Zadorra. Salvatierra and the scrubber take the palm, but there are also other points, in Vitoria and Trespuentes. Mostly, as I told you, in the Zadorra. But there have been discharges in Markina, with the presence of dead fish; discharges in the Nervion, in Amurrio, in Llodio, also with the presence of dead fish; discharges in the Nervion ria in Bizkaia, discharges in Pasaia, discharges in Amezketa, in Mutriku..., among others. I can go on. High levels of pollution are seen in Zadorra, as stated in the report of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation (report on the control of dangerous substances), and it speaks of the entire Ebro basin. But as far as we are concerned, in the results on water and priority substances, which is an analysis that is carried out in accordance with the European directive, and that, as the directive says that chemical pollution can affect the aquatic environment in the short and/or long term and can therefore have acute or chronic effects, the results are catastrophic in the river Zadorra. Fourteen violations of maximum concentration have been detected, but the Zadorra river takes the palm, especially in Trespuentes, in the water. In preferred substances, also Zadorra takes the palm, in points of Vitoria. We have mercury sediments (Zadorra ahead of all other points of analysis). Cadmium is also a priority dangerous substance, and we also exceed all parameters. In copper we also surpassed in Trespuentes. Chrome in Salvatierra, but also in Vitoria in Trespuentes. In nickel, in the same way in Zadorra, in Trespuentes. Lead, zinc... Counselor, we have a problem. This is not new, on the other hand, because the report on the state of the water bodies of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country at the end of 2015 showed that in surface waters 34% of rivers, 18% of reservoirs, 80% of lakes and wetlands, and 93% of estuaries do not meet the objectives of the framework directive. The repetition of discharges at the same point year after year, several times, causes the hydrographic network to suffer a serious deterioration, and, as the European directive says, it can become chronic. And we assume that at some points it is already chronic; for example, as I said, in Salvatierra and in the environment of the scrubber. But in Álava 70% of the rivers have an ecological state worse than good, that rating that is made: worse than good, not to say bad. In the Basque Country half of the rivers do not meet the objectives set by the framework directive. Our situation, Mr Councillor, will coincide, with regard to the water quality of the hydrographic network and its management, with much improvement, and in some cases it is urgent to improve it, because the deterioration is alarming. You will tell me that the hydrological plans already collect the measures, that we will apply according to economic availability to face the investments... I believe that here, in addition to the necessary investments, that we are already on it, and we insist on the need for them to be committed as quickly as possible, and that other canteen that they now put ahead of everything, which is centralized management, which is parallel as well... We believe that there is room for improvement on these issues, but there is room for wider improvement. Because, if we stick to concrete cases of a spill – and I'm going to tell you a spill in Salvatierra on Friday afternoon – the situation is Kafkiana, this seems like a third world place: a walker warns it, nobody shows up until the next day, there are no controls, no protocols, we don't know what URA does, how that gets to URA... There's no... The truth is, it's impressive. Awesome. And we say: what is the protocol that you have established for when there is a spill?, what happens when a depurator stops, as is this case? There's no warning? No one here...? Doesn't an alert arrive to the congress, doesn't an alert arrive to URA...? Well, there's nothing coming to the City Hall of Salvatierra, nothing coming because there's no interest in anything happening there. They do not know that they have a managerial competence. But when a city council does not exercise its competence, what do you do?, do we let the river continue to contaminate? Some performance you'll have to do! I say to you, Mr. Counsellor, that we have some very complicated points in the quality of water, and this is a very serious issue. It's becoming, as I was saying... at some points it can even become chronic. There are different circumstances, we were told in Markina, when there was the spill. Here the result was with dead fish, and there arrived representatives of URA, representatives of the parliament... No one took a fish to analyze. That a few days later there was a spill in La Puebla, in Treviño, and there appeared the Seprona, the Seprona acts... What do we do? Who does in the Basque Country the functions that in the rest of Spain does the Seprona? It's just that no one was here this summer, and I don't think on any other occasion either, but I think it requires us to move forward and improve the management of these circumstances. Because, as I repeat and repeat, we have a bad water quality in 70% of the rivers of Álava, and in some respects the situation is very critical. And, I was telling you, do you have any system of coordination between competent administrations, each in an area, that I understand that municipalities in some cases cannot manage? And then you will refer me to that proposal that you announce in the press, which is one of a kind, but that is that in the long term, and in the meantime we have to do things. So we cannot refer to future investments and future management that we do not know when it will arrive. So, what can we do?, what can we do?, what do you propose from your department to correct these situations? Because then there's another circumstance, counselor. The industries, the companies, when they are being discharged, are going to do an activity, from their department corrective measures are applied. But if we go for example to Salvatierra in particular, which is a black spot, very black, we have a modern company, set up for ten years, which is probably the depurator that you or your department put in place as a corrective measure to develop your activity is that it has never been put into operation! We don't know. We believe that it has never worked anyway, that you pour all your waste directly into the depurator, with what that entails, because it has very complicated substances to treat. That's why he was asked from the department to have a depurator of his own. And probably just like this summer already, by certain alarms, we think it's been able to work. So, I think there's an important job there, too. And who has to do that job? Does the city council have to do it, too? I don't know, I ask. And if the city council doesn't do it, what do we do? And then another question. There are many industries that, because they have not had a corrective action plan implemented for a long time, are very close to areas with aquifers and rivers, and may have been dumped. And what happens in those matters? I asked a year ago about the industries around Salburua. Itsasmendikoi, which is so, does not have a corrective action plan, for example. Public enterprise, for example. And so many others in the environment. And it's okay, nothing's done. I think we have measures to improve. I would like, if you are thinking about this, to know what we can do apart from those two major issues that have already announced us on repeated occasions (well, in the press, of course) this summer. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u102	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, before going in to answer the questioner part of your question, I would like to make a few clarifications on the considerations that precede. The facts are unobjectible: during these months there have been episodes of polluting discharges in some rivers of our community, uncontrolled discharges, which have concentrated mainly on the high channel of the Zadorra and the first stretch of the Nervion in the Ayala Valley. They are, as you well know, two conflicting points. In the first case due to the poor management and insufficiency at the cleaning station of Agurain, which we hope can be solved with the new cleaning plant that URA has committed to build. And in this sense I anticipate that in coming dates we will sign with the City Council of Agurain and the Provincial Council of Álava an agreement to put in place this infrastructure, as well as a management model that is more efficient. And in the case of the Ayala and Llodio-Orozko valley because of the lack of a network of collectors and purification system, which, as you also know, is the responsibility of the central government. Recently, in March, the project of the collectors and the depurator of Basaurbe in Llodio came to public information. The discharges to which it refers have led to the corresponding investigation by the Basque Water Agency, and the relevant penalties will apply if the persons responsible are identified. As for the reference you make to the evolution of the state of water bodies in the Basque Country, as contained in the URA report, I do not think you have chosen exactly the most favourable data. It makes no sense to deny the shortcomings that exist and to close our eyes to the problems that continue to exist in the water bodies in Euskadi, when they are precisely reflected in our own reports. Of course, there are such problems, but it is not the reality of his statement in his question that the situation is worsening considerably. On the contrary, the controls carried out by the Basque Water Agency, giving continuity to the work initiated by the Basque Government since the 1990s, indicate a progressive and clear improvement in the quality of water and its ecological state. This concludes from the various reports and work prepared by the agency, including annual reports of control networks, or hydrological plans, among others. That is clear the greater concern and awareness of the public about the water situation, an issue that we appreciate from the department. In summary, it can be pointed out that in 2008 around 30% of the surface water bodies in the Basque Country achieved good ecological status; currently, with data from 2016, this percentage is 52%. As regards groundwater bodies, the situation has also improved, from 89 % in 2008 to 92 % at present. I think that it was appropriate to make these points before coming in to answer the question that he is asking me about what the Basque Government is doing and is going to do in order to avoid polluting discharges into the hydraulic public domain and to improve the quality of water bodies in Euskadi. It should be noted, first, that discharges to the river or sea by any public or private person or entity require prior authorisation, which must be dealt with by the Basque Water Agency and which sets the discharge limits and the rest of the conditions to be met. There are currently 2,142 authorised discharges in the Autonomous Community, of which 46 are for agglomerations of more than 2,000 inhabitants or equivalents, accounting for more than 90% of the volume released. In order to verify that such authorised discharges comply with the conditions required by the authorisation, a total of 2,227 inspections have been carried out during this year, namely until 1 September, and 1,177 samples of discharge have been taken by URA personnel. They have also been received and contrasted with the order of 8,500 analyses provided by the holders of the authorizations, in accordance with the conditions of those authorizations. URA has identified that a significant part of these authorised discharges are carried out in activities located on urban soil or within the area of an agglomeration, and therefore, in accordance with the European Wastewater Directive, such discharges should be taken to the collector network, which is then taken to the relevant wastewater treatment plant. We are working with local administrations, which, as you know, are competent in the provision of sanitation services, with consortia and consortia, to make such connections to the collector and thus minimize the number of discharges into the rivers and to the sea, which will lead to a minimization of the contaminating load. In addition, URA is continuously working on the identification of unlicensed discharges, which has led to requirements and dossiers aimed at regularization or elimination. For cases where, due to any incidence, a spill may affect the state of the water bodies, URA has a 24-hour guard service every day of the year. A device that, coordinated with the SOS-Deiak service, 112, under the responsibility of the Emergency Management of the Basque Government, works to minimize the effects of spillage in situ, assess the impact that has occurred on the river or coast, and identify the individuals or entities responsible for it. As far as we are concerned, 306 warnings of discharges have been received through this channel. Of these, 156 cases have identified the person responsible (because it is not always possible to take samples in time and specify where the origin has been), 36 requests have been issued and 11 sanctioning cases have been initiated. In total, 2,655 inspections, 1,247 samples, 167 requests for non-compliance have been carried out over the course of this year, and 27 sanctioning files have been initiated. However, since it is found that most of the potential impact of discharges to rivers and the sea comes from urban uses of water, related to the sanitation service (which, once again, corresponds to local administrations), intensive work is being done in this area since URA. An important part of the agency's present and future investments are aimed at completing the outstanding sanitation and purification systems in the three territories. In Álava, the depurator already under construction of Oyón and the one we will start in Agurain, the latter very important to improve the state of Zadorra. Also in Álava, URA will have the soils for the depurators of the Alto Nervión, key facilities for the improvement of the state of this river. In Bizkaia the sanitation works of the Gernika-depurator corridor of Lamiaran are being carried out, which will solve the state of the Oka river, which is passing through Urdaibai. The works of the new collectors of Ermua in Mallabia will also be affected, which will solve the state of the head of the river Ego, tributary of Deba. In Gipuzkoa the works will be undertaken to solve the problems of discharges in the neighborhood of Mijoa, in Mutriku, and the work of the new sanitation in Pasai Donibane will also begin. But it is also essential that the provision of urban water, supply and sanitation services by consortia or joint local government bodies be carried out with sufficient technical and economic capacity to address this task, which will undoubtedly lead to the reduction of discharge points to the river or sea and the minimization of the spilled contaminant load. It is not so much about making investment, of course, but also about ensuring that these investments are properly maintained by those responsible for that maintenance, who, as you know, are not the Water Agency or the Department of the Environment, but are the local administrations. And in that sense we are working and we are going to work, so that we can optimize those investments. And, of course, with all this, also maintaining a high level of control, inspections, sanctions, etc., so that we are able to ensure that this great work that has been carried out over the past many years, and that still remains to be done, to achieve the water quality of our rivers and of our sea that we need, is also adequately contrasted with an inspection work that ensures the control of discharges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u105	Mr President-in-Office, you have been very calm about your speech, but you have not responded to what I have put to you. I mean, like almost always, not always. I am talking about very specific facts, serious realities, the consequences of which, as the Water Framework Directive says, can be chronic in some respects. And this for your department should be a priority, but it's just that you... I want to think that you take it seriously, but it doesn't show that you take it seriously. I think he takes it, but he doesn't prove it. It tells me that average water quality percentages have improved. Yes, at some points, but in Álava, far from getting better, they get worse. And why? Well, look, that not responding to making the investments that already come from the last century, I'm going to say, that they were made in a framework agreement of 2004, not making those investments, has as a consequence this. Because if it was necessary to clean up Agurain in 2004, today I won't tell her what it is. If then it was necessary, today is already an emergency, but immediate. And, of course, it says to me, "We've signed an agreement with the City Council of Salvatierra." I have nothing against Salvatierra, I love Salvatierra very much, 50% of my story belongs to Salvatierra, I am very close to Mr Beraza, today mayor, but in management it is a disaster. I tell him, I say it here, and I tell him where he needs it. And, therefore, I do not know what you have signed with the mayor, but it is that you also signed an agreement in 2013 with the Álava Chamber. It's no big deal. It is, in short, impressive this town hall, and the management that is already done has become almost chronic. Therefore, what I ask of you is first coordination. Because you're talking about a few dates for the depurator of Agurain, but the Environment MP of the Álava Parliament is talking about other dates, and the Environment MP makes a supply and sanitation plan for Álava and you make some allegations, because you don't like it. So, you're also not very agreed and very coordinated, it gives the impression. At least for what we see in the press. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, the municipalities will have their own one and their powers, but you have an obligation to lead, to coordinate actions to prevent spills from occurring. Because where's the preventive part in your apartment? We're talking about the pos, what do we do after the spills. And what do we do to prevent it from spilling? What are you doing to prevent it? It says, "URA has a 24-hour alert system." Yeah, but we have to call URA. Or do you know we have to call URA? Or me, street citizen, I go, I see a spill in a river, and I know I have to call 911? Well, in some places I doubt it, in some areas. I don't know. It's just that I think that has to have a much more formalized protocol, much more demanding, because we're playing a lot. We are playing with the fact that some points are contaminated as chronic, in the waters and in the sediments. And that has a medium- and long-term impact, especially on the flora and fauna of the rivers. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, we would like you to show that you are concerned and that this concerns you. And I also want to know and I would like to know what you are willing to do in the day-to-day management, aside, as I say, from those other circumstances, that we are going to trust that the investments you are going to make, that we will see, that there is no compromise in that agreement that you have signed. "According to budgetary provisions," there it goes! That means that by 2026 we won't be far from this reality that we have now. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, on the day-to-day management, do you intend to improve the situation that has occurred this summer, but that is already happening other summers and at other times? And that, far from being reduced, then, is increasing. So, that's what I'm asking you, what I'm asking you, and what I want you to tell me. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u106	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u107	Mrs López de Ocariz, for the most part what I said in my first speech was not even defending my management. I was defending a trajectory that has been taking place in recent years in Euskadi to improve the quality of water, which is unquestionable. Because you refer to URA reports: take everything, take all reports. Not only the part of what remains to be implemented, the points that are reflected in the reports as actions to be developed in the future, but it also takes the data of improvement that is being produced in the whole of the country's waters. I don't know, you tell me to coordinate, and then you embarrass me because I coordinate! Because, of course, you say "Bah, why have you signed an agreement, or are you going to sign (I haven't signed it yet, will I sign it) with the mayor of Agurain? Totally... Why do you sign with the congress? Totally... Coordinate yourself!". I don't know who I'm gonna coordinate with. With me? Well, logically, in order to move forward in a planned way, you have to try to coordinate. With whom? Well, with the rest of the institutions. And what I can tell you is that, in fact, the first outside body with which we have signed a partnership agreement is precisely the Álava Parliament, in which we mark the investments that we are going to make from now on, both the Basque Government and the Basque Government, in terms of progress in the treatment of water, in Álava in this particular case. You tell me: "Is it that the citizen can contact URA? Because you look at what else... what a mystery!". 112, SOS-Deiak. 112. I'll tell you in case you don't know. I imagine you would know, but for the citizen in general. You see it's hard, don't you? Well, well, we're going to make things as easy as possible, without complicating. There is an emergency coordination system that works, and it also works in this case, and to the extent that those calls are received, we act, in what is in our hands, as best we can. Logically, it is not always possible to find out the origin of the polluting discharges, it is not always possible to locate those responsible, but in a high percentage it is so. Yes, it is. And, in fact, it is a trend that has been taking place since URA, and I have given you data that I have mentioned on the number of dossiers, on open sanctions, on sanctioning dossiers, etc., etc. As far as we are concerned, 27 sanctioning cases have been opened this year. Last year, in all last year, there were 19. The sanctions, depending on the regulations we have, range from 400 to 15,000 euros, depending on gravity. This year we have been raised by sanctions 49,000 euros. That's not gonna sound like much to you. They are not of this year's sanctions, of this year's dossiers, which are not yet closed; they are of last year's. We are working on something that we thought was important, which is to get the sanctions dealt with more quickly, because what happens to us is that from the start of the dossier until we close it with the sanction more than ten months later. Among those affected by the sanctions, then, there is everything. There's everything. From restaurants, workshops, wineries, livestock farms, industrial companies, municipalities, councils, administrative boards... There's everything. Approximately 30% of the sanctioning files are addressed to public administrations, and 70% to businesses and individuals. This police policy also makes it URA, and it does it not only with the individual or with the company or with..., it also does it with the administrations themselves, to the extent that non-compliances are detected that generate uncontrolled discharges and that create problems in the quality of the water. Hey, what's there to do? Of course, of course there's still a lot to do! That we have a lot of work ahead of us to comply with the rules and to achieve the objective of ensuring that the quality of water we have in Euskadi at river level, at groundwater level, at sea level, even, as far as our coasts are concerned, improves and complies with European directives? Sure! We already know we have a lot of work to do! But, no doubt, I think we're on the right track. And finally, although you are often quite acidic in your speeches, I thank you for the tone you have had with me today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you, the Congressmen of the Casanova Alonso Presidements to the Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing Department, about the creation of the Earth for the Economics of Activity and the planning of the Great Skipters on the planet of the Arlo. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u109	Good noon, everyone. The Supreme Court was suspended by a verdict given on the 3rd of September 2015, in the creation of the Earth for the Economical Activity, and the various regulations of the Planet of the World of the Saltland, in order to arrange the Great Ones, were reduced or restricted to the liberty of the co-ordination of the great shops. This plan, LAP, or PTS, of the land Arlo, was, according to the law of Europe, or the state. The rule which, in the sentence of the Supreme Court, reduces the establishment of the great places of EAE, or the increase of the inhabitants, was suspended, and consequently leaves a free means of establishing or spreading such a site. The verdict is to say that LAP is based on economic criteria, and consequently beyond what European legislation permits. In this sense, the verdict admits that the boundaries LAP plan can exist, but always use criteria that are not economical. So we want to ask the chief physician the following question: Is the fun working for the Ekonomical Activity Earth to create the Grounds and the Great Skips to plan the Planets of the Land, to reduce the new great trading sites, or to increase the whole world by using legal standards in the innovation of the Plan of Artlo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, the answer is yes. We're working on this. As you mentioned, the Supreme Court determined, when it suspended these issues contained in the PTS, that the establishment or expansion of commercial facilities could not be limited on purely economic or commercial grounds, and that the rule only allows restrictions to be introduced in this area for justified and compelling reasons of general interest, including those relating to the protection of the environment or the management of the territory. In March 2016, the Territorial Planning Commission approved a number of interpretative criteria based on this judgement; after the Governing Council passed the agreement to initiate the revision of the STP, the drafting of the advance was awarded on 28 July 2016 and the reaction of the corresponding strategic environmental assessment study on 10 November. We have already received these documents, and at the moment we are working together with the Department of Tourism and Trade, so that in the near future the public process can begin, giving hearing and participation to the other institutions and to the entities and agencies that may be affected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u113	Yeah. For I am glad to hear your answer, and that the whole of society, and especially the trade community, which is very concerned about this sentence, well, then, also through a public forum, can bear in mind that progress is being made on time and that a solution is really going to be found to the problem. Let us hope that the resolution is in the right terms and the terms demanded from the world of the trade sector, and that it will maintain the spirit of the previous sectoral territorial plan, adapting it to the regulations but not decafeinating, in some way, the essence of that sectoral territorial plan with regard to the establishment of new commercial areas, which was an approach of restriction. It is a restriction that can be raised with legal criteria, on which there is established jurisprudence that admits the legality of that restriction. As you have said, these environmental or land management criteria can be applied, and these are criteria that exist. We would really like that timetable to materialise, and that as a result we would have a new PTS that would serve as protection and shield against the installation of new large areas, new commercial areas, or the expansion of existing ones. We will be very attentive, because this really is a subject that already comes from far behind. The sentence is for the year 2015; already in February 2016 we asked for an appearance of the counselor in which we were shown the willingness to move forward, and in March 2016 we presented a non-legislative proposal that was rejected by this House, in which we intended that precisely what you are doing here today should be placed on the black-to-white table, and that progress should not be made any longer a completed sectoral territorial plan, which requires a treatment that is obviously long and far-fetched, but a road map towards the elaboration of that plan. Therefore, we have the dates, we have the steps, and now we will be very careful that this new wording is not actually a slip or a simple process, but that we actually have a PTS that will serve to shield us from the installation of new commercial surfaces. In principle we believe what you are talking about, but we are going to be very strict observers, because we also understand that on the part of the parties that support the government are carrying out a series of actions that lead us to think that being suspicious is prudent, such as the stake for the enlargement of Garbera or a new commercial facility in Zaldunborda. Therefore, I hope it is as you say, and I hope that we will achieve that result. We'll be very careful.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u115	Mr. Casanova, careful we have to be all, taking into account the precedents we have here. They are precedents that somehow have to warn us that the treatment that is done, from the point of view of what is the PTS, has to be a treatment with a clear legal fit, because, if not, we would be doing the fool. In fact, you know that, as a result of the Supreme Court's annulment of those issues contained as limiting in the previous PTS, there are property claims pending there. Therefore, in that sense we are also playing with the money of all taxpayers, and we have to be cautious. Are you telling me you want to be very strict observers? No, no! Don't observe, participate. Take part. There's no problem. We are going to start the process of participation, we are going to start with the municipalities, and we are going to make sure that all the sectors and groups concerned can have an opinion, and we will try to be right. In addition, the progress is made in an open manner, in the sense that there may be alternatives under which a decision that can fit can be chosen. A goal that does not have to be in itself a restriction because of the economic activities of large areas, but rather that what we have to combine here are the issues that legally affect and that we have to develop in the PTS, which are sustainability issues, which are issues relating to the better use of the few spaces that we have in the country for the development of economic activities, which are issues such as making an adequate coexistence of the use of urban areas, that we avoid the use of private vehicles that saturate our roads... A number of issues that we will certainly appreciate within the development and study of the progress we have on the PTS, and that we will not do it alone. We will also do so in the light of the opinion of all the actors who are undoubtedly concerned that we are right in the decision we take in the PTS.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "To question, Julein Bollain Urbieta together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Ogas and Economic department, about the plans of the chief of the tax-collectors and economics." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you congressmen, chief officers. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. 8 May, London: Mr Rementeria says that the Bizkaia government is finalising fiscal decisions to be a more attractive and competitive territory for investors and businesses. 10 May: the Vizcaine employer Cebek asks to abolish the property tax and to lower the company tax. May 11th: You, Mr Azpiazu, literally reaffirm that the types of companies are already quite low in Euskadi compared to those in Germany, the United Kingdom or France. 27 September: You again, Mr Azpiazu, claim that there is an effective low tax burden on corporate tax in Euskadi. On the same 27 September, the same day you said that, Mr Rementaria argued that there was a need to lower the current nominal rate by 28% by several points. One day later, on 28 September, Mr Rementaria declared that Councillor Azpiazu and the three Members of Parliament had the same opinion. So, once again, a specific, clear question: Mr Azpiazu, is it true that, as Mr Rementeria says, there is already an agreement within the PNV, the three outlaws and yourself to reduce the tax rate on corporation tax from 28 % at present to 25 or 24?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u119	Mr. President, thank you. Bollain jauna, I see you've followed the hemeroteca, and I don't know if you've skipped any references to it. To see that the issue is not easy, but that we will reach an agreement between all of us to achieve a consensual tax reform and to enable us to meet the objectives that we have set ourselves. Realism, stability and agreement, those are the values that underpin our government action, Mr Bollain. I imagine they will sound like everyone, because the lehendakari has emphasized these concepts in various forums. Errealism, egonkortasuna akordioa age. In this scenario, our government programme clearly defines the priorities until 2020, which are the framework for addressing the debate on tax reform, so I will give you two concrete conclusions. The first objective is to maintain and improve social policies and the quality of essential public services (health, education and social protection), which, as you know, accounts for around 60% of total government expenditure. And secondly, we also need to remain an attractive country to develop economic activity. To maintain and improve the quality of social police and essential services, and to continue to be a attractive country to develop economic activity. You will understand that for the institutions of this country, priority objectives are both that companies operating in Euskadi continue here and that new ones can be established. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the economic development of Euskadi is fundamental to generating employment, and to generating quality employment. The smooth running of the economy will allow companies to increase wages, reinvest in Euskadi, and that brings a virtuous circle that positively affects all institutions and people. As for the agreement to which you refer, we from the Department of Finance and Economics of the Government are providing a series of measures to incorporate into the debate on the Basque tax system, aimed at avoiding tax evasion and evasion, aligning ourselves with the rest of the modern tax systems in Europe. We put a few measures into the euscal tax system, so that there may be no breach of tax, and that is why we join the rest of the modern European tax systems. These measures, together with those provided by the outside parliaments, form the proposal that is currently being discussed, as you know, with the rest of the political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u120	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u121	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Azpiazu, I saw that you had the speech very well, but the question was simple. I did not ask him about the government's challenges, but I asked him whether there is an agreement already, as Mr Rementaria has said. Mr Rementeria has said that there is an agreement within the PNV, the three parliaments and the Basque Government. So, I'm going to talk about assuming that agreement exists. However, no one has called us to talk about tax reform now; therefore, what you have said is not true. If there is an agreement, Mr Azpiazu, on 3 October Idoia Mendia reaffirmed that the PSE does not bet on lowering the corporate tax rate. If the PSE is part of the government of the Chambers and the Basque Government, then how can Mr Rementaria say that there is already an agreement? How then is it possible that there is an agreement in these institutions to lower the corporate tax rate, if your government partner is opposed to reducing it? Or is it that your government partner doesn't paint anything? Or is there no such agreement? Mr Azpiazu, the evolution of corporate tax collection is very worrying, as you have repeatedly said. On 11 May, he said that he barely contributed 7.7% of the total collection in 2016, and this year it is expected to be 7%, when in the Spanish State, of the total collection, it is 12%. As macro data improves, corporate tax collection remains in free fall. How is it possible that you, Mr Azpiazu, were the loser of this debate with Mr Rementeria? How can you send the Bizkaia Chamber more than the Basque Government, Mr Azpiazu? My mother said, "Where you command captain, you don't command sailor." Mr. Azpiazu, are you the sailor on this issue? But don't worry, that, in the face of these policies of competing with tax cuts, in a couple of weeks you and Mr Rementeria and the whole of Basque citizenship will have our tax reform; a fair tax reform, a tax reform that is the one that needs Basque citizenship, which is the one we all need to guarantee the social rights and public services of all Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u123	Mr. Bollain, I told you you're in the hands of the parties. He's negotiating. I don't know if you've been invited or not. I'm the government, and that sense as a party doesn't... He tells me about the loser and the sailor. Look, let's see, I don't know if you have a tax proposal that's capable of being approved on the general boards of all historical territories. If you have it and you are able to approve it, then I will tell you that you are a true captain. If you do not have it, what you would have to do is work with others to try to reach agreements and reach the best possible agreement, fulfilling all the objectives I said before. He was told that it was the provision of quality public services and the impetus of economic activity. We have to be able, of course, to have a broad view, and for that I think we need to know the tax entanglements and not just stay in the headlines. It's not a headline issue, I think it's a reality issue. The nominal rate may be affected by other intervening variables, as you well know, in the settlement of the tax, which finally gives us the effective rate. One might think of trying to open a path of confluence between the two, for example. I think there are paths to the deal. As I say to you, at the moment, I insist, the document is being negotiated between the parties, and the resulting agreement will have to pass through the general meetings, which, as you know and I insist, are the competent ones in fiscal matters. In any event, let there be no doubt that this Government has very clear economic needs and what our commitments are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u124	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Time is up. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH assembled to Ogaste and the Chief of Economy, concerning the policy of the tribute to be established in EAE." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Subazu, we are here once more to discuss the policy of taxing, and you and I, to discuss the policy of taxing the claims of the past. And again we would like to know your attitude, and this time, about the path which Mr. Rementeria pointed to and protected by PP. We want to know how many times you see that way, the public services you've proclaimed to guarantee the kind of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u127	Bai, Pinedo andrea, I would not like to be repetitive in my answers. I do not know the way of Parliament, which you are asking for, I do not know the way of Mr Rementaria to which you referred in the question. I know first-hand the proposal that we have made working on by the institutional representatives of the economic areas, both of the outlaws and of the Basque Government, during the last few months. And I'm going to refer to her. This document brings together a number of measures, as I have already explained to Mr Bollain, including some that the Basque Government has provided, which seek to avoid tax evasion and avoidance, following the recommendations of the OECD and the European Union. How many measurements does this document add? In other words, I'd given you some of the equivocations, the tax leaks, and that there's no escape from OCDE and Europe. Our commitment as an executive with regard to tax reform is written in the government agreement, and I literally read: "It will be an agreement that does not transfer to middle and low incomes a loss of income and an agreement that favors the competitiveness of companies." Errenta ertainetan eta baxuetan diru-sarreren murrizketarik ez ekartzea eta euskal seen lehiakortasuna hobetzea. I hope that agreement can be reached on this subject, given its importance for all (and I say for all), and I am aware that fiscal certainty is an asset that we must preserve. As you know, the previous 2013 reform achieved a broad consensus, and has been implemented during these years. The government agreement established an evaluation of its results, and this has been done. From there, a way of negotiation has been opened, as I said, with the rest of the political formations. I reiterate our objectives with the measures proposed: to guarantee and improve defined public policies, which are the responsibility of the different institutions, and to enhance the economic development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u129	Counselor, I have to tell you that I expected something else from you. Something else. Because you answered me just like Mr Bollain, when my question was quite, quite different. And I'm sorry, counselor, you in this whole story – and these are words I wouldn't want to say to you – you've been nowhere. It has not been united by its party, it has not been united by the deputies, it has not been united by the pressure of other parties. And it's so sad. Because you know perfectly well what the situation of flow boxes is, and that is why you called for a tax reform and not a retouching. That's why you were asking for a deep tax reform, not a cosmetic reform. And perhaps, unfortunately, you're going to run out of that, Mr. Azpiazu. You will stay and you will stay the entire citizenship of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba. And I insist, really, I don't know (well, today it's not..., I don't want to mention others)..., but I don't know what you're playing between you and the Socialist Party, and I don't know what role the Socialist Party plays, who said he doesn't want to touch the corporation tax on the line Mr. Rementeria had marked. You tell me today that you do not know that, that you know the proposal of the institutional representatives. Congratulations, Mr Azpiazu, because that proposal from the institutional representatives has not been presented at any of the general meetings of any of the three territories. And it's October 6th. October 6th. They haven't introduced him to Álava, Bizkaia, or Gipuzkoa. None. They're late. They're not late: they're very late. Very late. Next week there's Basque Finance Council, and you're going to be there, you have to make a collection forecast, and still the tax reform that you so much presented, and before summer you said it was imminent (incoming), neither is nor is expected. And the worst part is it's not going to be a tax reform, and you know it, because I'm laughing, Mr. Azpiazu. You know perfectly well. They're putting it on the table. That's gonna be makeup, at most. That's what was put on the table the other day and that's what some have been applauding them: a make-up, nothing more. And we have told you, Mr Azpiazu, Euskal Herria Bildu is willing to speak. Euskal Herria Bildu is willing to talk to anyone who wants to continue doing what you said, Mr Azpiazu. If you stand for that option you were defending, to increase the collection; if you stand for what you said about "Here is an option to collect more company tax, without touching the workers of this country", you have the stretched hand of Euskal Herria Bildu. You and anyone who wants to go that way. But, of course, if we are to lower taxes on businesses and raise them to the citizens, we are not going to be in any way. Because we have already done so, we have a realistic and achievable proposal, presented, made public. We are awaiting the proposal from the governments of the three parliaments, and there is nothing on the table. Zero potato. And it's October 6th. And you're talking to me today about fiscal certainty. Tax ruling on October 6th? Mr Azpiazu, you and I know how these things work, and on December 31st in some territories you know that it will be materially impossible to have any tax reform approved. And that, I'm sorry, is not fiscal certainty. If you want to wake up, let's wake up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u131	Mrs Pinedo, well, less bad than your parliamentary group, or you at least personally, I don't get any, do you? This is to thank. What I can tell you is that tax reform, or tax changes that are adopted, will serve to increase collection and improve public services, too. And this I can tell you. What I can't tell you is whether we're going to the general meetings late, because it's not an area that falls to me. I suppose those responsible for this matter will have studied it perfectly and analyzed it. I can't tell you much more than you've already said. I can tell you that we have clearly assessed the reform that took place in 2014, that a good evaluation has been made, precisely, and that it is now up to us to work on a new agreement. That we have put forward, as Mr Bollain also said, various measures aimed at ensuring public policies and enhancing economic development, and that these measures are currently being negotiated between political parties. And once they remember, they'll take each other together. I don't know if it is on time or on time; I imagine it will be on time, but that will be up to them. And I also don't know if the People's Party has supported anything, because, as far as I know as a finance and economics advisor, there is at the moment no out-of-court rule, as I said, processed on the boards. And I end with the three values that underpin our government action: realism, stability and agreement. Gure gobernu-ekintzaren oinarri to say hiru balioak: Errealism, egonkortasuna akordioa age. Thank you, Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u132	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadectition, Euke Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the Administration of Justice and the Machiistic violence." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u133	Good noon, everyone. Thank you. In Elkarrekin We are truly concerned about the situation of the Administration of Justice and women's access to justice. We said in the registered initiative that we have learned that a judge has addressed a letter to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country to report on the workload in gender-based violence courts, stating that it is impossible to assume it. This fact and other information gathered confirm that the workload exceeds the means available, and this is very worrying, Counsellor. We are concerned about those women who are victims of sexist violence recognized and protected as victims of gender-based violence under the current law, that is, those who suffer violence from couples or ex-partners. But we are also concerned about access to justice for women who are victims of sexist violence by other relatives or strangers, who are not yet recognized as victims of sexist or gender-based violence in the specific legislation. In the case of the former, the establishment of specialized courts, which we know as courts of violence against women, was established by law. In the case of the latter, women who are victims of sexist violence by other relatives or strangers, the cases are dealt with in non-specialized courts. The number of complaints of gender-based violence per partner or ex-partner has increased, and the number of complaints of violence by unknown persons has also increased, such as sexual assaults at local parties. This increase is corroborated by data from the judiciary, the Ertzaintza and the Office of the Prosecutor. The increase in complaints can be explained by a greater social awareness, and because we are becoming more and more clear that "it is not". In this case we welcome the increase in complaints. However, Basque institutions must be prepared, not only to raise awareness and raise awareness, but also to provide the right response. It is a irresponsibility (repeat, irresponsibility) to raise awareness and generate mechanisms to denounce, then not have sufficient means to avoid revictimization. I repeat: it is irresponsible to raise awareness and generate mechanisms for reporting, and then not to have sufficient means to deal with it with guarantees of non-revictimization. The situation of the Administration of Justice should be of concern and concern to all of us, and, of course, especially to the Department of Labour and Justice. Let's see, let's have a few little brush strokes. We begin with the courts of violence against women. There is a general agreement between social agents and defenders, and also expressed by judicial agents, that the courts, the media and specialization are insufficient for the workload they must absorb. Insufficient. First, they are overloaded, the overload generates work dynamics that have as their main consequence that situations cannot be dealt with with with dedication and due time, and this increases the risk of revictimization and that procedures are carried out inadequately. Secondly, infrastructure and building conditions are not adequate. The overload also has consequences for the building conditions and infrastructure allocated: there is saturation, the spaces are scarce, and they are overused, leading to situations that are not adequate according to international standards and recommendations. For example, having to share waiting spaces between the victim and the complainant, or between the victim and the victim's family, or cross the corridors and places of passage. In addition, in the many cases in which women have to come accompanied by girls and boys, the spaces end up being totally inadequate for waiting, or to preserve girls and boys from tense moments and from listening to testimonies that have a marked violent content and great emotional burden. The Ararteko report of 2016 noted as worrying the attention that children who appear before our courts, whether as victims or witnesses, receive in our courts. I indicated aspects to improve, I will comment on three. One, the report indicated that the units, which are unfriendly, need to be improved. Two, indicating that conditions of time, space and work dynamics need to be improved, because they increase the risk of secondary victimization. And, three, it indicated that the specialization of the staff and support services of the Administration of Justice needs to be improved. I bring you a testimony from the staff of the Administration of Justice: "They share the room in which the complainants have to wait, which is quite small, in which the windows cannot be opened, there is no food, there is no water, and there is no free access to the bathroom. There they all wait together for hours, each with his or her mood and many times with his or her sons and daughters. Since there is no space in which you can be with your lawyer to tell you what has happened, receive legal aid and make decisions, you have to tell everything there, with the other women in front, with their sons and daughters in front. Sometimes many cry, and the others, who are going through the same thing, become infected with emotions and come down. And the creatures over there. It's old-fashioned." This testimony, counselor, puts the hair at the top; at least it puts it on me. Third. Lack of expertise throughout the administration of justice. Machist violence also requires a specialized response from the Justice Administration. Stereotypes and prejudices are across all spheres of society, including justice, and are an obstacle to women's access to justice. The application of prejudice affects the credibility of women's statements, arguments and testimonies as parties and witnesses to proceedings. Counselor, justice, when you're blind to gender, it's not justice. In Euskadi, first of all, there is a shortage of specialized courts. This is affirmed in Ararteko's 2016 report. Do you know how many specialized courts we have in Euskadi? Five. We only have five courts of violence against women. Officials must extend their hours to carry out their duties; they are the courts with the worst working conditions, the civil servant in general does not want to work in these courts. The incumbents move as soon as they have the least opportunity, so there are a large number of temporary staff, mostly women. An important fact to take into account, Madam Counsellor: horizontal segregation is also present in the Administration of Justice. In the courts with better working conditions there are more men. For these courts there is no requirement for specialized prior training, as is done in criminal or civil courts. Although they are supposed to be specialized, there are clearly sexist proceedings and judgements, which run counter to all international protocols, recommendations and standards in this area. And we also have all the non-specialized courts that are intervening in family affairs or in sexist violence not recognized by law. Are we sure they're doing it with a gender perspective? We have serious doubts. We trust in the will and commitment of all, or almost all, and of many officials and staff working in these courts, but we do not see comprehensive strategic policies that are neither specific nor cross-cutting, which address all these aspects to be improved, Counsellor. So, with this panorama, Elkarrekin We can ask you, counselor: What measures will the Department of Labour and Justice, given what I have just commented, take to improve the situation in the courts of gender-based violence in the Basque Country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u134	Thank you, Ms. Arana. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Arana, you really pose a serious problem, a very serious problem, which affects one of the most appalling crimes, such as violence against women. Violence against women, the most brutal symbol of inequality between men and women, a problem that unfortunately we have just suffered with the murders of Noelia Noemi Godoy and Ana Belén Jiménez. I want to start with a memory for the victims, as was done yesterday in this very plenary, and I also take the opportunity to show my heartfelt solidarity with the relatives and relatives of Naomi and Ana Belén. And it is that the aggressor commits violence against women because he considers it a being deprived of the minimum rights of freedom, respect and decision-making capacity. As it is linked to the historical subordination of women to men, gender-based violence has been a constant throughout time; however, at the present time, thanks to the efforts of women themselves and the struggle of their organizations, there is a greater awareness and rejection of this violence in all its versions in our society. Something that had been invisible for a long time, pops up and becomes recognizable through the media, networks and social manifestations. We can say that in a dignified society no act of violence against women should be left unanswered. Society responds; it is therefore a requirement that the public authorities do so with firmness and roundness. I agree that the three powers that we constitute the basis of democracy must intervene to prevent crime, arrest and condemn the offender, and do everything possible to minimize the suffering of the victim. The legal framework that has been adopted is the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. There is currently a consolidated text with a final amendment of 6 October 2015. This law provides, inter alia, for the establishment of courts specialized in violence against women, their territorial organization, competence, jurisdiction, headquarters and plant. The latter means where, how many and who should take charge of its operation. Well, Your Honor, so far what has been dictated by the legislature to distribute the tasks that it is to develop to the executive and judicial powers. Allow me, Mrs Arana, to stop now in what, in the case of the Autonomous Community, corresponds to each of the democratic powers. First a theoretical consideration, which is supported by judgements of the Constitutional Court, in which it is clearly distinguished between the Administration of Justice in a strict and broad sense. In a strict sense, consisting in the jurisdictional function of prosecuting and enforcing the court, which is the competence of the judiciary. And in a broad sense, understood as the administration of the Administration of Justice, which includes, in addition, the use of the necessary material and personal means. The first, called the Administration of Justice in a strict sense, is reserved for the judiciary, and is reflected in judgments handed down by independent judges and magistrates, which are immutable and subject only to the rule of law. The exercise of jurisdiction in all types of proceedings is exclusively the responsibility of courts and tribunals. The General Council of the Judiciary is the governing body of judges and magistrates. The second, called the Administration of Justice, is responsible for making available to the former the material and personal means necessary for its operation. The autonomous communities with competence in this area must provide courts and tribunals with the personnel, facilities and information technology necessary for the proper development of their functions, which are to judge and enforce the courts. Non-judicial personnel have a double dependence, because they are functionally at the disposal of judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, and organically at the disposal of the relevant autonomous community. Autonomous Community with competence and regulatory authority recognized in the Organic Law of the Judiciary in matters of status and legal regime, including selection, initial and continuing training, provision of destinations, promotions, administrative situations, working hours, working hours and disciplinary regime. Both the transfer decree and the Royal Decree of Transfers and Functions of the State to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the matter of personal means in the service of the Administration of Justice take into account this division between the functions and powers of the Judiciary, whose highest organ in the Basque Country is the High Court of Justice, and those of the Basque Government, at this time awarded to the Department of Labour and Justice. To sum up, the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government must provide the organs of the judiciary in our Autonomous Community with the material and personal means necessary for the development of judicial work. And to be precise, I say to you from this moment on that the Basque Government cannot enter into measures on the qualification of judicial proceedings, the sharing of cases or referrals, or on the internal organisation and functioning of the courts. However, Your Honor, I will begin by providing some data on the people who, depending on the department, support the courts of violence against women. The organizational law to which I referred establishes the minimum number of exclusive courts in violence against women to be created and in which judicial parties. In our community there are five: two in Bilbao, and one in the judicial parties of Vitoria, Donostia-San Sebastián and Barakaldo. In the other ten judicial parties in our community there is a mixed court that acts as a court of violence against women, and in Bilbao there is also a criminal court specializing in violence against women. I must also warn you that when I refer to staff under the Department of Labour and Justice (managers, processors and helpers) I am talking about officials who, while being transferred to the Administration of the Autonomous Community, retain the character of a national body, so any change in their structure or the creation of new places must be agreed with the Ministry of Justice. In other words, both the employment relationship and the public employment offer of more than 170 planned places must be negotiated with the Ministry of Justice. And, concretely, in the sixteen courts dealing with cases of gender-based violence, there are 109 people who support the work of judges, all of whom are well trained for their professional performance. I have to admit, Mrs Arana, that many of them are interim officials, a situation that we hope to resolve at the time when the public job offers for 2016 and 2017 to which I referred a moment ago are called and resolved. So far, as regards part of what are obligations acquired with the judiciary according to the competences assumed by this Basque Government. With regard to the provision of material means to the Administration of Justice, apart from the common means, such as physical space, furniture and computer equipment, etc., in the case of courts of violence against women, we are particularly concerned about the conditions under which victims are treated. When I took up the post of adviser to this Government, one of the first initiatives I took was to visit the palaces of justice, in some cases myself and in others my closest collaborators. As a result of all these visits, we found that there were no special rooms to wait before giving a statement in almost no courthouse, which led to tense and incomprehensible situations, whenever they coincided in the same space victims and victims. I immediately requested an analysis of the situation of each of the courts, both those specializing in violence against women and the mixed courts or the Bilbao Criminal Court, and each case has been evaluated and appropriate measures are being taken. In addition to our responsibility to provide material and personal resources to the Administration of Justice, we have competences that we serve with our own services, such as the victim care service, the points of family encounter by judicial referral, the judicial psychosocial teams or the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. All of them are doing important work with victims of gender-based violence, but I think I will have the opportunity to provide all the data when the appearance that you yourself have asked for is sustained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u136	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u137	Thank you. Madam Counsellor, we know the competences of the Department of Labour and Justice, and we know that they are limited, but we do not understand the difference in working conditions, building and specialization (all competences of the Basque Government) that exists between the courts of violence and all others. That's your responsibility. Or does the Basque Government have competence for investigating courts or criminal courts, and not for violence against women? I suppose you'll have it for everyone! I will expand on some of the issues raised in the first intervention. About the overload. Complaints are on the rise. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, in Euskadi in the first quarter of the year there was an 8.1% increase in complaints of male-to-female violence by the couple or ex-partner. Ertzaintza data: complaints of crimes against sexual freedom have increased by 43.14 per cent. I will tell you about the Office of the Prosecutor: according to the Office of the Prosecutor, with the entry into force of Organic Law 1/2015 and Organic Law 7/2015 there has been an increase in the previous proceedings and abbreviated procedures. So to continue working with the same means, with that increase in work and with means that were already insufficient before, it seems to me that it is very little responsible. Look, counselor, at a couple of comments on the courts of violence against women. The Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence provides for at least one judicial body in each judicial party to assume the competence of these courts, so that all victims are guaranteed a specialized judicial response. We have fourteen judicial parties, and five (repeat, five) specialized courts. We should have at least one figure closer to fourteen, not zero. Women who do not have specialized courts in their territory are served by investigating courts, where specialization is obviously not guaranteed. On the page of justizia.net, when information is requested about courts of violence against women, only five appear, as I have already commented to you. If you are from Balmaseda, for example, and search on the website about the courthouse, answer "No addresses have been found". I don't even refer you to an instructional one. The lack of adequate information and the risk of gender blindness and revictimization, which already exists in specialists, are multiplying. I remind her of something that happened in a specialized court: during the appearance of a woman in court, Judge María del Carmen Molina Mansilla of Vitoria's Court of Violence on Women, expressly asked her if – and I quote in text – she opposed resistance to assaults, and also asked her: "Did she close her legs? Did you close the whole part of the female organs?". Does this seem normal to you? This happened in a specialized court. I don't want to think, I don't want to imagine what can happen in a court of law with unskilled personnel. I repeat, I don't want to imagine it. And another important fact, the lack of training. Look, in the 2016 convention on continuing education, between the Basque Government and the Council of the Judiciary, there is not a single training related to gender-based violence. Not one. And in none of the topics included in the convention is a single mention made of incorporating a gender perspective, not even in family law training. We haven't found the agreement for 2017; we just sincerely hope it has been quite better than 2016. The situation of the Administration of Justice is a clear example of how equality speech can be made, but in fact it does not devote the necessary resources to make it real and effective. How many women did we decide not to report for fear of meeting justice? How many women aren't reporting, counselor? Women who decide to report cannot continue to be revictimized by the institution that has the responsibility to do justice. From Elkarrekin We can continue to work on the drive for concrete measures, so that this desolating and chilling panorama, which violates women's right of access to justice, improves. Eskerrik asko. And get to work, you're late, and this is very serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u138	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u139	Mrs Arana, for what she expresses in the justification of her inquiry and in the content of her intervention I deduce that all this focuses on a letter that the substitute judge of Vitoria's Court of Violence No. 1 sent to the Government Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. The substance of the problem raised in the letter is the high number of entries, of new cases, in the Court of Violence against Women, derived from the Ertzaintza and local police, which causes an excessive workload in the aforementioned court impossible to assume, as you quote in the text in the justification of your inquiry. The judge made a proposal to the Government Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, referring to an agreement adopted by the provincial judicial police commission. In particular, the alternative judge's proposal in her submission was that in three cases the points should be made by the prompt trial procedure and not by the ordinary. This letter receives a reply from the Board of Governors of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which states that the proposal is not appropriate, and quotes: "It is not appropriate to have access to specific criteria other than those laid down in the law and in the existing protocol on the referral of cases to a speedy trial". As your honor can appreciate, this is an issue exclusively related to the judiciary; therefore, the Department of Labour and Justice cannot and should not interfere with it. We cannot take action, as you require me in the text of your inquiry, on the subject under consideration, but be assured, Mrs Arana, that this does not mean that we are not doing everything possible to improve the material and personal resources of all the courts in our autonomous community. As I mentioned in my previous speech, we separate what belongs to each of the powers. This is to provide material and personal means. The Department of Labour and Justice makes available to the courts, specifically those of violence against women, those material and personal means, and in addition our most urgent concern and measures to address existing problems, and I will go further on this issue. It is not that we have fulfilled the commitments made and agreed upon at the time of the transfer, but that as we are establishing the new judicial office we are incorporating into the employment relationship, subject to agreement with the Ministry of Justice, those who are carrying out reinforcement tasks. I can assure you that we are responding to all the requests for reinforcement requested by the courts, prosecutors and other bodies, such as the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. At the moment we have five petitions, none derived from courts of violence against women. Of the requests made so far, where the motive was the workload arising from cases of gender-based violence, we have appointed four reinforcements in so many other courts. Two of the petitions were made in June and July 2016 in the courts of violence against women in Donostia and Vitoria, and were settled within one month. There is a previous case, from 2014, at the Azpeitia Court, which was duly dealt with (and I make it clear that this court in Azpeitia is not exclusive in violence against women, but it does deal with cases of this typology). The last request is from July of this year, by the court number 6 of Bilbao, of the penal, specialized in violence against women and violations of sentence, whose reinforcement is already appointed. I can also tell you that, given our special sensitivity on this subject, any casualties are immediately covered, without waiting for the deadlines envisaged. Finally, I would like to convey to the whole House that the Department of Labour and Justice not only fulfils the obligations arising from our competences, but also makes complementary efforts to address the elimination of this social scourge of gender-based violence. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is essential to combine efforts on the part of all institutions and the complicity of civil society as a whole. The problem requires it. But know that for our part, and as far as our competence is concerned, we are equipping the material and personal means, we are training the staff, and, well, that is where our function ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-06.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Before I finish, I'll read an institutional statement. The institutional expression of the Basque Parliament, concerning mental health: "One. The Basque parliament expresses the importance of premeditation of mental health, by establishing policy and preventive policy for all the population of citizens, and especially for the population of children and teenages, which will prevent the development of more pathological conditions. Two. The Eusgian law represents protection to those who have serious mental illnesses, especially to those who are in a state of severe social intercourse, whose autonomy is in a state of severe social development. Hiru. The Basque Parliament expresses its support for relatives and people close to people with mental disorders because of the impact this situation can have on their daily lives. Lau. The Basque Parliament is committed to promoting the social integration and welfare of people with mental illness and to continuing to support the employment of people with mental illness through positive action measures for this group. Bost. The Basque Parliament expresses its particular concern about women with mental illness who suffer from gender-based violence, urging the competent administrations to ensure that this group, which is even more invisible, responds adequately to their needs. Six. The Eusgulian law requires, in general, all the institutions, corporations, unions, and media, to extend their point of view to the collective people with mental diseases, and to make them use of inclusive language, which destroys or avoids discourse, image or content, who treat or perverts persons who have diseases in their minds, or who have elements which are discrisitators and stereotyped, and which will assist them to fight against the stigma and assist their social contemplation." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one-thirty in the afternoon.
