ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the fifth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Ibaña Kortaja, a member of the EH Collectors, with the measures to treat well of long-continued labouring. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Madame Kortja's, it's yours to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u1	All right. Mrs. Chair, good morning. Congressmen, chief departments, good morning. Volvemos hoy con unno de esos insistos del comer que dot preocupan a Basque Country. It's one of those great challenges that society has at this moment, and I'm sure you share it. The numbers are there to tell you of a crude, hard reality. Six of ten has been looking for more than a year and half more than two years. 60,000 people have been out of employment for more than two years. In addition to the total number, the distribution of the collective, which has more and more people and more women, is also of concern. Sailburuak "Sierra teeth" izendatu dituen langabezia-tasen inguruko susto horiek alboan utzita, badirudi enpleguaren datu orokorrak onera egin dutela eta, sustoak afrato, tantaka eta nahi baino mantsoago enplegua Errekuperatzen denaren zantzu txikiak ditugula. These general data shows a positive tentitude. But this recovery does not reach everyone. The chances are not equal to all, and it costs many, as the chief physician says so often, to turn back to your situation. Among them there are long-term unemployed ones. The state of these people does not improve; I will not here shut myself up in comparison with other communities, because the interest and aim of the enterprise is not to be met with in the discussion of the train or carriage about these matters. But what is plain is, that the greater part of the learned are signified to us, that our community has certain particular marks. That ours is a very ancient community, with some of the labourless ones that are highly compatible, and likewise the weight of industry, and a hundred productives contrary to the labourers of a long duration, and that our rate of activity is higher. In this sense, our unemployment also has certain characteristics. He's very focused on people over 45 years. These 40-year-olds have a long experience of work, but they're either very poor or disaffectioned or very disappointed compared to the demand for work. This is real, right here and raw. We are facing a painful situation, I dare say, in front of one of the most brutal consequences of the crisis. This is one of the reality that hides behind fat data. It is certain that behind this reality there are people who are having a very bad time. Hard dramas, after all his life's work, for people who have met unemployment for the past few years and have great difficulty finding work. "Even if you have fifty years of experience, if you don't have a professional certificate to believe it, you're nobody." "Many times under the circumstances you have no choice but to work in black, you have to live." "Now it's too late. It did not foresee this situation, and less with twenty-four years' contributions." "Don't worry, we'll call you." "But they don't call you from anywhere. When you go to a job interview, something always comes up. They don't tell you it's about age, but they always get something out of you." "I've cast many resumes and called many places, but nothing." "Stable work means everything to me; it would mean self-esteem and knowing you were useful." "A critical situation, but we'll think you can get out." Amaia, Carlos, Carmen, and Jose Ramon are now in a conversation which has recently been in a press-a man and woman of 56, 57, 62, 55 years old, long unemployed; people who have still a desire to fight in difficulties, and have a strong pronostic. If things don't change, Amaia, Carlos, Carmen, and Jose Ramon can be poor retired in a few years. And there's the photograph of the late Cáritas. Among the new poor there is a profile that is winning: A man who has been above 50 years and has had a long career of work, who has been unemployed for a long time. The political policy of dealing with the unjust condition in this matter is extremely significant. For public policies ought to become the principal instrument of the solution of this cruel reality. Politics must create conditions of life, we must guard people by these public policies, and we must draw them to the rescue of people before it's too late. I can't say that this subject isn't the government's concern, I didn't say that this government hasn't done anything about it. "Sé que me dirán, como en ocras ocares ocares, que estrealida les preocupa y les ocupa, y tampoco lon doubte." The head physician often quotes long-term unemployed collectives with the greatest difficulty for work, and he has said that the last day before yesterday, in the introduction of the budget, this matter is in the midst of his priorities. Even when we made an interpenetration around the subject, the chief physician explained to us a long time the resources of the Eplegus and above all for those with the greatest difficulty in the profession; different programs, forms options, possibilities of socialization, programs that are carried forward with economic development agencies, a custom interest that the profession wants to provide. And we've also seen in the budget that there are general games for those people with special difficulties, and we haven't seen 2017-20 Emplogue Strategy, but we've anticipated that it'll take measures for those collective ones with special difficulties. We haven't seen the strategy, but we have not seen the dictatorship of Eukadical Economics and the Board of Society Problems. And we have seen that the question of the diagnosis of unemployment in the case of the plan is mentioned as a particular weakness, but that it does not appear in the strategic ends or in the strategic practice. Men and groups of men are generally cited with singular difficulties. It is a bag of people with special employment difficulties, with very broad sacks, too wide. It is there that the labourless, over 55 years old, long-continued labourers, people who are incapable of anything, women who suffer violence, people who are in an irregular state, strangers. A very different, very different, very different, pronostic reality, and in this sense the state which requires very different occupations, confounds the Government in the chosen strategy. The reality is that what is not seen does not exist, and what does not exist is not acted upon. And the reality is that when you get into a big sack of realities so different and needs so different we lose efficiency. And the reality is that when a matter is really a priority, concrete measures and concrete resources are set out. This is the case of the effort that this Government is making to incorporate young people, and which we share, but which is not collected for the long-term unemployed. Despite the concern and efforts, we are not right with the actions for the long-term unemployed, and it does not seem that this strategy, intervening with that group of people in the most vulnerable situation as a whole, is the most appropriate. The programmes being developed are at least debatable, and do not always conform to the reality and needs of long-term unemployed people. Because, honestly, can anyone explain to me why the hirings of the district plans last six months and not eight months? Can anyone explain to me why this measure could not be relaxed and think of other options? There are also very different needs in terms of emotional care for a woman who has been a victim of sexist violence with respect to those who have a long-term unemployed person who has been unemployed for three or four years. The training needs of a person with a disability are very different from those of a person such as Amaia, José Ramón or Carmen. We believe that specific needs need to be addressed in a differentiated way. And will the solution come from the personal attention offered by the profession? We think we don't have the current profession. The scientists are unable to move, they have no time of quality, they have no formation to arrive at these situations, they have problems of reaching states from the emotional area, the programs and options that they can offer to people are eternal. Y, Dede luego, la solución no va a ventir de programes tan lamentables como el Prepara, por mucho que maquillemos aquaí. EH Bildu believes that we are facing an exceptional, priority, differentiated situation. A major social problem, which requires, as experts in this field point out, exceptional attention, a solution to the letter. We need to give a quantum and quantum leap. A couple of weeks ago we argued about the jobs police that the usual recipes are not valid, that we have to break the margins. And we also said that the efforts which have hitherto seemed insufficient are not enough. As for business and protection, we said that it is time to seek consistencys and balances, and that it is time to promote special, significant and effective employment policies, and that we need to rethink the policies for our work and protection. And that's the way we propose today. Through this team, we ask you to start a long-term unemployment. In the Uplegu strategy that will come in the next few months, we demand that long-term unemployed plan be included in a suitable and distinct way. An ad hoc plan, a shock plan that guarantees personalized attention to these people; that offers them concrete training, guidance and mediation measures that are aligned with what the market is demanding and the opportunities presented. A plan that makes important efforts for inter-institutional coordination, and that is linked to the socio-economic realities of each people and city of Euskal Herria. A plan that includes massive incentives for recruitment, that includes the incorporation of clauses for the recruitment of long-term unemployed in public procurement, that recognizes and certifies work experience, and that encourages the necessary changes in the GIR to enable these people to live in dignity. And we're asking you to tell us about the work of this plan, the tracking and monitoring experts. To count the Contar con los que sabe, experts, and experts, because the constant participation of so many people is required to encourage and to guarantee them. A special situation, a situation of great anxiety, measures of equal size. "Ante siduciines excepcioles, medicas excepcionales, como se hace en rotros muchos ámbitos, medicas dechoque y recursos excepcioles." There hasn't been a chance of extensive agreements today. The groups that support the government have not seen the necessity of this collision, and I really feel sorry for it. And it seems to me to be a bit disturbing, because reality is there and this reality is stubborn. And the advice of experts is there too. And what am I going to tell you! I think it's already more than clear that coffee for everyone and everyone is not worth it. And it is also a pity, because this motion we consider to be coming at a very good time, when the strategy has not yet been presented, when the budgets are to be closed. We were on time, and we're still on time. Those who do not have time are the long-term unemployed. "They've forgotten about us," said one of those people I mentioned earlier. "They left us alone." Eta ezín ditugu bakarrik utzi. Aurrekoan was a salburuari. We have often said that it is time to answer our hinges as a people in a proper and orderly manner, and that we ought to direct public policies to it. In this sense, power and above all determination are required. Determination, for the making of new politics, determination to place the conditions of life and their dignity in the midst of public politics, the determination of which, to prevent any one from being abandoned, the determination to guard the people, to rescue the people. Determination to take care of people, determination to rescue people, that's what we need. And, as we are still in time, because we are in time, perhaps today we are not going to reach that broad agreement, but I would ask you, taking advantage that the Salburu Artolazabal is also here, that the things that arise today, since you will certainly count on very large support from this House, be taken into consideration, and that you do not forget, that you do not put in that big bag the people who have been stopped for a long time, because you have a very specific problem. It is a challenge that we have as a country, and that must be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u3	Good morning. From our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos, the truth is that we welcome the initiative of the proposing group, in this case EH Bildu, as it is an initiative that in its objectives – at least it seems – sought to make interesting improvements in the making of policies aimed at the long-term unemployed. And, therefore, it is an issue on which our group believes that we need to have a special sensitivity, the whole group of the House, because it is a collective that suffers from a situation of particular uncertainty in its daily life and of particular uncertainty also in its futures. They are women workers with special difficulties in accessing jobs and thus being able to develop their life projects, so that they can simply live in minimum decent conditions. That is why we approached the initiative by analysing what was proposed in it, and finding that, well, we agreed, there was broad agreement on what was proposed from the proposing group. And we made an amendment to the whole, not so much in the spirit of amending the whole, but of being in the debate, reinforcing the criteria that were being proposed, and including some elements that we thought were interesting and that could improve the initiative. We also thought that this was an initiative in which, because of its characteristics, broad agreement could have been reached in this House, because we thought that it was not so much an initiative that came to amend the plan to the Government, but to affect possible improvements. Because any policy, and of course this government too, is better, and we therefore regret that there has not finally been an agreement. Our disposition was that there should be an agreement, and so I passed it on to the proposing group. We were willing to leave ourselves with some issues that we raised at the time, in order that there would be that agreement that has not finally been and that in our view it can only respond to the vertigo of the groups supporting the Government, for it is understood that if this initiative were adopted it could be understood by society as that it was being harshly criticized by the Government in its policy management with regard to the long-term unemployed, and therefore that the largest amendment was being made to the Government. We regret it, because I think it was not so on this occasion. We agree, and I will describe some elements of the original initiative, which are logically in the compromise we have reached, in which we agreed with the proposing group. Firstly, the issue of individualised care, which is certainly going to be said here that it already exists today and that we are going to say that it does not exist as such: there is no really individualised care for this group of workers. Individualized attention for us has to be the total accompaniment to these people in a whole process that only ends when they are again working in decent conditions. It is not just about offering them training courses, it is not just about offering them guidance. It is about making a real accompaniment until they achieve the goal of their inclusion in the labour market, and that they have work. And, therefore, this individualised attention needs a second element that was in the initiative and that we consider very important, which is the coordination of the different socio-economic actors. It is very difficult for Lanbide to receive individualized attention if it does so alone and does not have elements of coordination among socio-economic actors. A third element would be that of public procurement. It seems very important to us. I know that some groups in this House do not agree so much on this issue, or at least have less to go on this issue. We believe that the elements to ensure the recruitment of long-term unemployed must be fully explored in public procurement, because we are talking about a group of special needs within the unemployed, and with special difficulties within the unemployed. And, therefore, from the public point of view, we have an obligation, because we have tools to make social clauses that allow the maximum recruitment of people who need it most, in this case the long-term unemployed. A fourth element would be what has to do with the resources needed for a dignified life while in that situation of unemployment, which is not an issue that goes beyond the processes aimed at finding jobs. I have already argued here that better economic coverage of unemployed women also improves their ability to find work. And that's why there are some elements in the initiative that we share, and we added some more that I will now describe. And then, finally, of course, the advice, which has to be a much better advice than is being given at the moment by Lanbide, which goes a little further than covering the files, among other things not because of the lack of commitment of the workers of Lanbide, which we know is very large, but because of the lack of means and the problems that Lanbide has had since its transfer. Good. Our group added three elements that we thought enriched the initiative, which I will briefly describe. One is with regard to the needs of the unemployed, whom I believe the Government shares in the rhetoric at least, because it has expressed this once, but which we do not see in practice. It is not just a question of meeting the needs of the market; it is not a question of adapting unemployed women workers to the needs of the market, as if we are only the tools to be adapted to the needs of employers. This is important, we do not deny that we must do so, but we must also adapt to the needs of the workers themselves, who also have specific hopes or hopes for what kind of work to find. And we believe that that must also be taken into account in this matter. A second that had to do – explained Mrs Kortajarena – with the certification of knowledge. One of the characteristics of many of these long-term unemployed women is that they have extensive work experience, who have worked for many years, but are currently in this situation of unemployment. And that work experience they have is not reflected in many cases in certifications, which companies today require instead. To put a concrete example in order to understand, in the trade in which I was working, that of trolleyman, years ago no certification, no title was required; nowadays it is required, and there are people of forty-five or fifty-five years who handle the trolley perfectly, because they have worked with it for twenty or thirty years, but they do not have that certification, and surely they have much more skill and knowledge of the trade than someone who has not yet worked and has taken a course of twenty or one hundred hours. Therefore, we included that there must be elements to adapt this and to allow that knowledge to be also certified. And finally, we have included some elements concerning unemployment benefits, as regards urging the central government, not so much because we hope that Mr Rajoy's Government will listen to these bodies, but because I believe that, if an agreement had been reached in this Parliament on long-term unemployed people, we also find it interesting to include this element as a complaint of what I said in this House two weeks ago, which is a cut in benefits from the sixth month onwards, a cut of 10%, which is a brutal cut in the concrete living conditions of these workers. We therefore agree with the initiative proposed, we have tried to enrich it with some elements that we found interesting, we have reached a compromise with the proposing group, and we very much regret that there has been this vertigo on the part of the groups supporting the Government and that they have not been able to make their position and amendment a little more flexible, which basically means that the Government continues to do what it is doing. And I do not think that this is an initiative to boost the government, and that it would therefore have been of no use. We regret that there has been no such flexibility and that we have not been able to reach an agreement on such an important issue on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u5	The head of the table, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Well, look, I didn't mean to start my speech by making fun of them, but I'm under an obligation to do so. Because here, even at the last stage, in Mr Hernández's intervention, we have been reproached for the lack of..., vertigo..., in short, the unwillingness to agree. And I would ask Mrs Kortajarena and Mr Hernández, at what time did you call me to know if I was willing to reach an agreement with you? Did they call me at any time? Have you been concerned about whether I really had the will to reach an agreement, what did I think, what analysis did I make of the initiative you have put forward? Have you asked? Did they? No, no, Then don't accuse me of not wanting to reach any agreement, because it's a lie. Because it's a lie. And I have to blame him, I'm so sorry. I understand that within your imagination you still have in mind that the government is only these gentlemen, but when you talk about government, get used to talking about these gentlemen and those gentlemen, who are us, and that we also have a very important social component. And I would appreciate it if, when you deal with these issues, please address us too, because we would probably have made an effort to convince everyone to reach an agreement. And they haven't. And I'm very sorry, because I think we've missed a great opportunity on a tremendously sensitive subject like the one we're dealing with. I would therefore tell you, after this little sham, that there is obviously a great deal of concern for the Socialist Group on this issue. We're very concerned, of course we are. And we are not going to escape or elude self-criticism, not even sincerity, nor the analysis of the objectivity of data that says what they say, and that they say that Euskadi is the autonomous community that has the highest rate of long-term unemployed, and that in the last year it is the autonomous community where that number has fallen to a lesser percentage. And we recognize it, and we assume our responsibility as a government, regardless of whether it is not a socialist portfolio. We assume our responsibility as a government, because the government is not a party or is another party, it is a government. Therefore, within our commitment, within our responsibility, I can assure you that I know in ink well that this Government is also committed to tackling this problem, improving the tools and putting on the table all the issues necessary to tackle this problem. Because, as I said, we could be complacent, but, what do you want me to say to you, we as a Socialist Parliamentary Group, and as part of this government too, we are very clear that this is a tremendously sensitive issue, because behind every long-term stand there is a big problem, there is a personal drama. And, look, I'm not gonna bring you here at any time or anything that's come out of the paper or people's testimonies. I can tell you about my specific case, because I have lived it at home and I know the harshness and hardness of having a long-term unemployed at home at a tremendously complicated age. That's a drama for the person and the family. I would therefore like you to know that at least this Member is extremely committed to this issue, because he has suffered it. I am therefore going to the beginning: I am particularly sorry that that has happened today on this particular issue. I think we have a challenge; as long as there is a long-term standstill in Euskadi, a single standstill, I think this government has a challenge, and it will not elude it. I'm convinced. Behind the coldness of these data, as I said, there are real dramas, there is frustration, there is lack of hope, there is an uncertain future, there are doors that close, there are vague excuses, they hit you in the hills for being a certain age, a certain circumstance, and it is tremendously unfair. But at the moment I want to make an argument and the defense of all those people who are well in Lanbide, either in any instrument of the outlaws, in the job launchers, are working and leaving their skin to get alternatives for those people, who are forming them and who on many occasions are doing group therapy that is tremendously valid, and who make them see that they still have a future and that they may get work, and that through training, working their self-esteem, they make them see that it is still possible to have a job at their age and in their circumstances. And it seems tremendously admirable to me. Because those of us who started doing politics from below, and we had to be very in direct contact with the street and with the citizens, and we had to have, face to face and looking into the eyes, citizens who brought us dramas of this style, so we know what that is. And it's very hard for those people to have to face and have to listen to dramas like those that every day put them on the table. Therefore, today I want to highlight the work of those people who are working day by day to find a solution, an alternative, and return self-esteem and hope to those people. I therefore believe that in the opening up of this new horizon there are instruments, there are tools, there is an employment framework programme, there will be annual programmes, there will be employment strategies that this government will implement. That they will obviously have their margin of improvement, of course they will, I will not deny it. Everything has a margin for improvement in this life. Everything. And that's certainly so, too. And as long as we continue to have long-term stops, we will have to continue to improve those tools to tackle that problem. And what do you want me to tell them? Yes, because I can very much agree on many of the issues that you have put on the table today through that motion. I also tell you something else: I do not think that this employment programme, or the employment programmes that this government is already running, are exempt from most of the things that you have put into that motion, eh!, because they are all being done, and I also think that we must be fair. They can have better results or worse results, we'll analyze it. And if we see that the results are not all the best that should improve them, they will be analyzed, that's why we are. Improvement margin. But I believe that all the instruments and all the issues that have been put into that motion are already incorporated, are already under way, are being made. I therefore believe that what is at stake is not to say that we have to do them, but to try to improve them among all so that they are as efficient as possible. Keys? I think there's a lot of them. Individualized attention. But, as I said, as important as individualized care is often group work, it helps a lot, it helps a lot in motivation, in self-esteem. It's a job that I think is also coming to complete that individualized job. The regional development agencies, especially in those regions that have suffered most cruelly or are suffering unemployment. It is said by a parliamentarian who belongs to a region that has suffered especially. And I think the work of the regional development agencies is very important. The employment plans adapted to specific groups, in this case to the long-term unemployed; the public contracts, which I know are already being carried out in many municipalities (not only by the Government, but also by municipal governments, by outlaw governments); the training, fundamental; the recycling of these workers... Anyway, I think that's all there is. It is embodied in programmes, they are being implemented, and obviously there will be room for improvement. It is a question of restoring self-esteem, of restoring dignity, because work dignifies, dignifies much. And I am convinced that if there is will on the part of all... Why do you do that to me, Mr. Bollain? I tell you that work dignifies because I've worked a lot in this life, I can assure you. I don't know if you've done so much or more than I have, but I can tell you that the work dignifies a lot. That's why I was saying it. I don't know why you have to make such eloquent gestures. As I said, it is a question of restoring their dignity, of restoring their horizon and of restoring to them a future that I believe belongs to them, because they have contributed a great deal to this society since their work, and I believe it is also the duty of this Government to correspond to them in the proper manner. I therefore hope and hope that in the future we will be able, among all, with sincerity and without bias, to be able to reach an agreement, because I believe that it will be a very positive agreement for all these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u6	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. We're here to discuss the "EH Collectation" of long-term labouring forces. The appeal to this motive was made on March 17th. So, Madame Kortja's, I must confess, and I told you yesterday that she surprised us after so long as we entered the list of things to-day. "Uno de esos insistos del comer que preocupan a Basque Country Collecta," decíad, señora Kotaija, al epezar su exposicion de hoy." Y sí, stamos de accerdo, y no vamos a poner's theme of doubt as we are, or at least as much as we are. But it's true, and you must admit it's been too long or a lot since the engagement took place. You said it was a lot of trouble, and today you said that we're not even talking about long-term unemployed people there, in the parliament. As you know, the rate of unemployment is 10% of one of the most important goals of President Urkullu's, and the government has been absorbed from the first day, by the whole government. The several groups have been Diagnosis long since made, and I dare say it is shared by those who are in the government and in the opposition we are in; It's a waste of unemployment. To do this we must create a better work and a better quality, which is necessary to fix solid grounds for the reciprocation of the economy. And in the meantime, to prevent the weakest groups from falling behind, we need a powerful system of society. I'm sure we all share this. On the basis of an analysis of the data (monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, annual) of the various years in which the crisis has hit most cruelly, and its comparison and evolution, we have clear all and all the groups that have been hit most by it, so they require specific measures not to be chronicled in this situation. I am sure that we share that, although they are not all, some of these collectives – and some of you have already mentioned them – of unemployed people who deserve special attention, because of their special situation of vulnerability, it is that of women, young people and young women who are unemployed, the elderly, the long-term unemployed..., the latter being the last group we are dealing with in today's debate. And I am also convinced that each of the people in these groups, the people, and also being able to be some of them in more than one (let's put ourselves in a woman, older than forty-five years, who has been subjected to gender-based violence, unemployed for more than two years), each and every one of these people, regardless of the group to which they belong, deserve protection in order to cope with the situation they are living. And that is why the Basque Government is finalizing the framework programme for employment and economic recovery 2017-2020, as has also been said, of which the strategic employment plan will be an important part, which in turn will be the basis for the development of the annual employment plans. In our opinion, it is necessary that the whole employment should be considered as a whole. Hence we find the integral plan suitable to us, in which, as it is logical, the special collective and the weakest will have their proper enterprises and tactics, and the latter has also been mentioned by Mr. Aundeza. We see more logical and effective understanding and addressing the situation in its entirety, as a whole, emphasizing the specific circumstances that each person, each vulnerable group may need in a more concrete way, but always understanding it as part of a whole, and that is why we believe that the global strategy is more appropriate. The Basque Government is working from day one to improve the conditions for economic recovery and job creation, as well as to bring the unemployment rate down by 10% by 2020. And we move along the right path, though slower – we have said it and we will continue to say it, until we finish the situation – than we would all like. But the data published last week, referring to the month of October, also supported it: the figure of 130,056 people stopped is the lowest since August 2010, and the indefinite contracts continue to rise, which shows an advance in the best quality hiring. That is not self-congratulation, but the data must also be taken into account. Not just the bad guys, even when they light a certain light. And Mrs Kortajarena mentioned it in her speech. Regarding the long-term unemployed, the data published last Friday also corroborate a positive trend within the situation that you have well explained, Mrs Kortajarena: during the last month of October, long-term unemployment has fallen more (there are 1,277 people less unemployed, people who were in the long-term collective) than that of short-term unemployment, which has fallen to 713 people. With regard to the annual reference, there is also a greater decrease in the long-term group, with a decrease of 9,17 %, compared to the decrease of 6,37 % among short-term groups (6,37, compared with 9,17 %). These data show that the Basque Government is concerned and occupied, as Mrs Kortajarena said, by this group of long-term unemployed people, and that the measures implemented are bearing fruit. That's why, Mrs. Kotja's, we don't see the need of a specific crash program to respond to this collective program and give proper attention. We are agreed, as a weak collective, that General Empedugu strategy should have precise measures suitable to them expressly. As the department commander told you on the day of the rehearsal, March, when I'm happy, there are measures, initiative, program, and specific sums of money in order to pay proper attention to the people of this collective community. And I'll go over it, but I'll explain it a little. You mentioned personal attention, both Mr. Hernandez and Mrs. Koruntah, and the Aridez. Each person needs the right size to face his personal situation. In order to do this, a custom method of formation and employment is necessary. The job is to give you a better, more and more personal attention. Some measures of improvement in the management of the profession are directed to this, because it seems necessary to us and to the government. We'll have plenty of time to talk about this for a long time, as the chief physician said on Tuesday, he expects the contributions of all the groups to enable the profession to make strong progress. Around the formation, there are many times a long-continued collective population is a poor one. Thus, in the next year, the profession has predicted the 116 million euros match for the formation. It is essential to optimize and increase their skills, manage and facilitate the training resources most adapted to the reality and personal circumstances of each person. For all this it is necessary – we share with you – personalized attention. In addition, there is also a strong stake on the part of the integration companies, as they can form a valuable bridge between the re-training phase and access to regular employment. The maintenance and development of incentives for co-financing also seems important to us, eta aurrekontuen proyektuan gai honetara 240 milioi euro bideratzen dira. And in conclusion, that's why we introduced the basic full-time correction, because it's fun to work in order to give special attention to long-time job labourers. And because the collective is weak, we think it's right to have special treatment, because it's part of the strategic plan, but not of a collision that's left out of it. And finally we also see the importance of having individualized attention plan, and thus we receive it in the correction of the whole of our application to the Social Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. For, indeed, Mrs Kortajarena, today we are dealing with a very important issue, it is true. I believe that all groups have also said it here, that benefits are important for a person who remains unemployed. But, of course, the first problem that concerns the citizens, the Basques and the rest of the Spaniards is employment. This was reflected in Mrs Kortajarena's interventions, of people who have lost their jobs. Because employment, it is true, Mr Andueza, not only dignifies; employment is an element of self-esteem that goes much further. In addition to getting the resources needed to have a dignified life, it goes far beyond that. And I think that that goal is the goal that people have, finding a job, and that is the goal that public administrations should pursue. Because, if unemployment is obviously a matter of concern to any group, in the case of long-term unemployed people it becomes more acute, because it is a vicious circle: the longer it takes them to find employment, the more difficult they are to gain access to the labour market. And the crisis has aggravated the situation of this group, it has created, as has been acknowledged, great risks of chronisation and therefore of social exclusion. Mrs Kortajarena said this with the testimonies she has given and it is true: in addition to being unemployed, I believe that they are people who, because of their characteristics (people over forty or fifty years of age, who have been working their whole lives), in addition to this situation of injustice that supposes them to remain unemployed for years, and of impotence because they cannot re-enter the labour market, in many cases there are also large doses of hopelessness, which I believe is against what we must fight all public institutions. As of October 2017, 130,056 people were unemployed. With regard to data of the same date in 2016, it has fallen, it is true, but less than the national average. And, by territory, the smallest descent has occurred in Álava. And it is true that in October it has fallen (the last month's figure was good for them), the number of long-term unemployed has fallen, but it is also true that, while ten years ago the long-term unemployed accounted for 32% of the number of unemployed, today they account for 62%. Six out of ten unemployed in Euskadi are long-term unemployed, which leads us to conclude that in Euskadi almost 80,000 people are long-term unemployed and have been out of the labour market for more than two years. And, as I said, it is a fact that the longer you are in unemployment, the more difficult it is to join the world of work. It is therefore necessary to act by the public authorities and to carry out public policies in order to find a way out of these nearly 80,000 people. And I think we've all given the same data. Euskadi is at the head of the long-term unemployed. It is true that the unemployed who have been seeking employment for more than a year have dropped a point, but in Spain as a whole they have dropped five points. We do not say this; it is evident from a report that you have all seen, from the professorship of UPV Sara de la Rica, the Euskadi Labour Report. And according to the report, which relates to the third quarter of this year and according to data from the Labour Force Survey, the long-term unemployment rate in Euskadi at the end of September is 62.81, compared to 63.70 of the previous period; however, in Spain as a whole it has fallen from 61.23 to 56.02, thus widening the gap that existed with the Basque Autonomous Community, in particular six points. And the reasons were also given by the professor: Euskadi has an ageing population, with chronically unemployed people and with great difficulty in finding jobs that do not require a high qualification. Because the biggest weight of the industry in Euskadi, and having a more advanced productive fabric, plays against those unemployed. According to the report, the profile of these unemployed is that of elderly people, with low qualifications in many cases, who have been unemployed for three to four years. It therefore recommended that comprehensive measures, including specific training, should be put in place in that report. Then this gives us a clue where I think we should go. If jobs in Euskadi require higher qualifications, it will be necessary to make efforts to qualify these unemployed, and also to give them a qualification in line with the job offers of our community. And also, as was said here, try in some way to certify the experience they have in many cases, so that it is accompanied by the qualification necessary to return to the labour market. Mrs. Artolazabal, in the reply she gave to Mrs. Kortajarena's inquiry, which Mrs. Arregi said seemed late... I think I think it's appropriate. We knew the data, and I think the presentation is timely. And, as I said before, Mrs Artolazabal replied that the fight against unemployment is one of the priorities, and that one of those priorities is to avoid chronification, and that the keys to follow will be included in the Basque employment strategy. And it is true that they were, and they will be, as they have been in previous plans and strategies. But, of course, it seems that what is on the paper is not enough, and that it is necessary to take measures, to take different measures at best, because the situation is still there. We remain, as I say, at the head of long-term unemployment. And this issue is true that we have dealt with it on other occasions in this House. In 2015, for example, there was an inquiry into the then Councillor, Mr Toña, which then led to a motion which is precisely what was referred to in the initiative that we have here today. At that time, he pointed out that the European Commission had issued a recommendation to the Member States to implement measures to bring long-term unemployed people into the world of work, and already at that time highlighted the need to design customized plans, suitable for those people, with a customized itinerary as well. Because, as I pointed out earlier, in all the plans, in all the strategies, as the Counsellor said, the long-term unemployed group has specific attention. It is true, and I have to recognise it here, that specific measures should be put in place to try to lower the figures; measures such as job training routes, retraining, working through insertion companies, incentives for recruitment... Those at least on the paper are on. But the truth is that either they are not taken into practice, or, if they are taken, they are certainly not enough, because, as I say, even if we have the last data for October, the truth is that the average does not go down to the pace of the whole of Spain, nor to the one who has done so since the beginning of the crisis unemployment in general. We were also told by the counsellor about the importance of the agreement with the municipalities, of the local plans. But with regard to local and regional employment programmes, I do want to make a reference here, right? They are important, but this group has often had to ask for them in this House, because they were always behind schedule. They were always late in their resolution, and in the end the next one was also late. That is, that many times what is contained in the documents and plans, when we turn to the facts, does not seem to have so much effect. It is true that the list of strategic plans envisaged by this Government was approved in January, including the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020. This week, on Tuesday, the Counsellor announced that in a month that strategic employment plan 2017-2020 will be approved (2017 can almost take it off, because, come on, I think it will have little effect this year). In this plan, as in the previous ones, this announces to us: that they will have a specific collective treatment such as women, young people and long-term unemployed. But for this I believe that, prior to the elaboration of this plan, what should be done is to evaluate the measures that were in the previous plans, see why they have not fulfilled their objectives. Because they haven't fulfilled them. They haven't done it. And Lanbide at the moment is not a suitable instrument for employability I think of no stop, but of course of the long-term stop. And I do not say this: the Counsellor said the other day that more funds will be provided in this exercise precisely to increase the employability of Lanbide, and she has stressed the need for reform and updating of that institute. Mistakes need to be recognized. I believe that self-congratulation in these matters is not good, and I see the groups that support the government, primarily the Basque Nationalist Party, very much self-congratulation. It has to be recognized that something must not have worked, because the rates we have are the ones we have. Therefore, I think we should ask ourselves whether it is really self-criticism, self-examination, and, if you see that something is not working, if you are going to take steps to make it work. Because, for example, we were talking here about interinstitutional agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u10	Finish up, Mrs. Llanos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u11	Yeah, I'm finishing up. Today we knew that in the employment shuttles in Álava, in particular that of Vitoria, Llodio and Oyón, twelve places have remained free. It seems that these shuttles to employees are not attractive and suitable for finding a job! Well, we'll have to study it, won't we? The other day I told the Counsellor: sometimes it is more important than competition to have competent managers. And I think you should ask yourself whether they really are, because since 2010 we have the competence in active employment policies, and is it really being effective in seeking employment for long-term unemployed people? Well, I don't think so, and in the light of the data, that's clear. We therefore believe that this initiative is timely. We did not amend it because we believed that it was possible to make that shock plan and that it was appropriate. In any case, the transaction more or less contains the same, and we will support it. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u12	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Madame Kortja's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u13	Yes, ma'am, thank you. I'd say to my Lord Adezina, I'll take your advice and call you back to the agreements next time. But even when we quarrel at this size, we must consider the dynamics used when bargainings are obtained among you, and then there will be also a matter of conversation between you. But yet I admit I didn't call you, and in that sense, for the next time, of course, it's covered. And I said from the very first that you had this plan of agreement you mentioned, and I would tell you also that you had the opportunity to call it, and that I would gladly receive that call. I have said, however, from the very first, that this purpose here was not to disturb them in numbers, or to interfere with such sterile comparisons. I said it from the very beginning. And I'm not going to go in with the motion in time or late in the discussion, because I can also have my opinion when the strategy is coming, and whether that process of modernization of the profession comes in time or not, but I'm not going to enter it. And I have also said, from the very beginning, that I will never say that this government does nothing about this subject, and I have also observed, that the chief physician often quotes long-continued labourers among his uneasinesses, and that I believe him. I told him that from the very beginning. And of course, Mr. Andueza, how will I not recognize that you know the situation closely! You live in Renteria and I live in Loiola. You know what I mean by that. We all know this situation very closely. We don't have the flag of those situations. But the point was, as you said, to reach a agreed plan, because the strategy is coming, because the budgets are still open, and that the process of modification in the profession is also open at this particular moment. And that's why we think it's the right time. Whether it has been extended or not, because the time is very convenient, and it allows it, because the majority of this legislature will speak clearly today. Which shows that, somehow, we all see that the strategy of that big sack you chose is not perhaps the best strategy of our point of view, and there's that collision between us or both, isn't it? For here also has been mentioned the effectiveness of the measures which have been set in motion. Look, it's one of the things that CES said in that dictatorship is a lot of activities and initiatives that plan the new strategy, which come from the planet that has already come, are not evaluated. That they are not properly evaluated, and that they cannot be known whether these measures are effective or not. This, then, is to be considered very carefully when the measures are repeated. And we think it's important to compare public policies to this kind of stuff. Good health from public policies, and, as you said, to direct policy, and that's what's the occasion of the day. Today's motion was not to quarrel with the Government, to scold the other teams, was not intended. It was a sighting of a reality. It was an initiative to suggest a new strategy, and that's what we're doing. And the agreement will not be possible, but, as I said before, and taking advantage of the chief physician's presence, I repeat, I think that many of the words here may be made use of, and can be taken, as a priority in the next strategy, in the same manner as the young are. And besides, we can put precise measures and precise enterprises, because we're still on time for the rescue of people. Because, as you said, it's a very crude situation, and for once as a village, we have to get people to rescue before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u15	Eskerrik asko. From here, because I will be brief, because I believe that in my previous speech at least I have tried to be constructive in explaining the arguments, why we considered the initiative timely, and explain what elements we wanted to introduce. I'm sorry that Mr. Andueza is angry this way. I think you need to be aware that the dynamics that your group and the Basque Nationalist group bring to this House when it comes to negotiating and addressing each other, depending on who carries the issue and then acting as a bloc, sometimes complicates our work as well. But, while it is true of what Mr Andueza said at the time of the negotiation, I would like to clarify my group's position a little further, which I believe I explained at the beginning of my previous speech. Our group understood that the initiative was good, that it could have some improvements, and from the very beginning we transferred to the proposing group our willingness to negotiate an agreement and that we would enter into that agreement. Because in the amendment that they sign together, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, although they then ask us to negotiate separately, in that amendment we also had no objection to its content, but we simply felt that we had to add the initiative that came from the proposing group and, if possible, some of the issues that I have explained before. And that's why I explained that I think you've had vertigo. I may be right or I may be wrong, but I think you have had vertigo in trying to reach an agreement. And the truth is that in the explanations given by both groups (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party), it seems that we almost absolutely agree on what to do about the policies with the unemployed. Well, I am glad about this, but some of the issues I have mentioned have explained why I do not think they are being done this way today, and I do not think anything has been said about it. However, I believe that, if we once again have this debate, we will all – and of course my group is committed to this – make greater efforts to reach agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Man, I understand that it can be a mess for you, and that I probably have trouble explaining to myself how I should or to make myself understand, but I don't think it's that difficult. Here there is a government, which occupies the front row, and there are two parliamentary groups that support it, and then I think the first thing that needs to be done is to know how to distinguish between the government and the parliamentary groups that support the government. And our internal work dynamics between these gentlemen and us will be the one, but I, when I'm negotiating something or when I try to reach an agreement, I get in touch with everyone. I'll get in touch with everyone! And they have to understand that these gentlemen and we are two parties of different political traditions, and that there are times when we can have discrepancies, but that within discrepancies we also know how to reach agreements. That's why we're in a government. And probably, if you had the will to reach agreements with us, then we would have talked about it; you would have called me, I would have talked to our partner, and we would have tried to reach an agreement. But there was no such possibility. And you, Mr Hernandez, tell me, "We have difficulties." Well, I'm sorry to tell you, if you have trouble taking off the phone, dialing my number, e-mailing me... the problem is no longer mine, eh! It's yours, I can assure you. It's yours. And I don't think that's the case. I think we are perfectly accessible parliamentarians so that you can call us, contact us, and try to find and reach an agreement, even if we have differences between each other. I was talking about vertigo. Well, anyway, I can assure you that you can't know whether I have vertigo or not, because, since you haven't spoken to me, you don't know. He doesn't know. I can tell you I don't have any vertigo. And yes, I think this initiative is very timely, I think this initiative is very timely, and it will always seem tremendously timely, whenever there is a problem, to put it on the table. It will also be appropriate for this Government to assume its responsibility, as it is doing, and to implement tools, as it is doing. Because I have already told you and I repeat it to you: in the same way that it may seem to me right that you here try to visualize a problem that we recognize exists, also that we visualize and tell you that all those measures that you are putting on the table are already being done, because that is so. That we can gain in effectiveness? Absolutely. That there's room for improvement? I told you in my previous speech. We are therefore going to try to make these measures as effective as possible and to make sure that, with input from each other, the tools we already have are truly the best possible. We have a challenge. Well, let's assume it all, each to the extent proportional and in the role he plays in this House and in the government. I, Mrs Kortajarena, did not want to claim any flag, I can assure you. I have told him that I have lived at home, that I am very conscious and that, therefore, I tell him that it seems very timely to me what he has brought. We live it; you in your region, I in mine, others in the other... Anyway, it's a social problem, it's there and I think we have to solve it among all of us. And I do think we're at a key moment. Of course we're at a key moment! We are at a key moment, because this government has decided that Lanbide must be modernised; that we have already had a previous debate in this House, in which I believe we have all made clear what we have or what objectives we have within what that reform of Lanbide has to be. We will therefore wait for this reform to be debated, put on the table, analyse it in depth, and then implement that with the framework employment programme, which will also be possible on the table, so that the combination of both is a perfectly useful tool for dealing with this situation. And, as I said before, our tools, or the tools this government puts in, are as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u18	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u19	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. I'll try to make up my mind a little, because if I agree that all the groups are weak collective, and have special needs, I think, at least we have a solid foundation to work there and make progress. As I said in the first round, we know that this long collective of duration, that every person in this collective collective, has a certain need for other groups, and that we must give an adequate answer. And I think that's the way it is, and you've confessed, too, that the government works. Maybe not with all the good results we want, but it works that way and takes steps. But we don't see a special bump program or something, from the general strategy, that's supposed to be out of order. We believe that the general strategy is sufficient to give a special attention to it, and that the government works in it, that this collective will be in this collective system, that particular measure, to give the best possible attention to this collective. And I am sure that the contributions here given, which have been very positive, will, I think, be considered and some have already been united in this strategy. But I'm sure that even the government has taken notes and will consider them. On the subject of the real and personalized accompaniment to which you mentioned, especially in the first round, Mr Hernández, we fully agree, and I also said that in accordance with the circumstances of that person and his specific circumstances. Because it is true that not all the long-term unemployed have the same personal circumstances, which can make this attention have to vary. And I think that, although, as always, the issue of Lanbide, etc., that needs to be improved, that there we have it too, and we are going to talk long and stretched out about it, but Lanbide is already working in a personalized way. It is clear that every person and his circumstances must be given as concrete attention as possible, as I say. On the subject of the certificate of professionality, it seems to us very important and appropriate, and the Department of Employment and Social Policy is working in coordination with the Department of Education in this regard, so that they can be approved, because obviously people who have been working for many years will have to prove that they know how to do that job. Another thing is that such training, which we believe to be important, should also be given to the needs, at a specific time, of what is being asked of companies, in order to facilitate their employability, which in the end is what we all want. Steps are being taken that are improving, that we hope, so and so, that we continue to advance and improve the situation of this collective. Man, Mrs. Llanos, it seemed to me at least inappropriate when you said that we did well..., "they did well with that data." We have not presented the initiative, the initiative has been presented by the EH Bildu party, and neither have they been good or bad for us. I believe that the data show that trend, are positive within the situation to which you referred, but I believe that to whom they come right, or less wrong, is to the collective of people. So, at least it seemed inappropriate to me, let's say. And then we've been talking about Sara de la Rica's report, about different data, which is true what you said, but also, if we get into data, the data are looked at as a whole, and in that report by Mrs De la Rica it is also said that in the balance sheet in Euskadi there is a better employment situation, with a higher proportion of the employed and a lower proportion of the unemployed; that in Euskadi the unemployment rate is 11,23, which is among the three lowest in the State... Well, the data... as always, here we can highlight one or the other. The data is that the situation is better than it was, we're moving forward. It is true the issue of saw teeth, this was always said from the very first moment (not in this legislature, but in the previous one), that I wish it were linear and always up, but there are times, well, in which there are those saw teeth, that among all of them, and with the policies that this government is implementing, so let's hope to turn it around and that they are always in ascending line and the situation improves for all of them, because that goes for the benefit of Euskadi society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u21	Thank you again, Madam President. And although I don't think it's exhausting all the time, it's more comfortable for me to talk from here, because that's how I can address everyone. Man, Mrs. Andueza, it's not up to me. Of course, if I take an initiative and I want to reach an agreement, I will talk to you, but I believe – let me say – that you have taken it a little bit with smoking paper, because I understand that it is difficult to explain, because a very, very, very similar initiative, if not virtually the same, was the amendment that the Socialist Party of Euskadi and EH Bildu signed two years ago, and which also counted on our support. Of course, then you were in the opposition, now you are in the government, and what before was that the government did nothing, or that what it was doing was not enough, now it seems that it is. I, however, take note, and as far as I am concerned, and if I have an initiative, be sure that I will call not only you, but any member of the Socialist Group. And, Mrs Arregi, of course, the one who has been best served is those 1,200 people who have managed to stop being unemployed, but recognize me... You are from Bilbao (and look, I want to take advantage, today that you have been declared the best European city 2018, to congratulate Bilbao), but come on, from Bilbao Bilbao, because you always come out here with that "we make phenomenal food", and it is not so. It's not like that. He says, "No, it's just the data is..." Yes, but it is that we were already leaving, Euskadi started at the beginning of the crisis with unemployment data lower than the average in Spain, but it is that the behavior..., when employment has been destroyed, has been destroyed more than in the rest of Spain, and when it has had to be recovered less, and at a slower rate than in the rest of Spain. And specifically in the long-term unemployed, I have told you, six points of difference: we have passed, that before the crisis three out of ten unemployed were long-term unemployed, to be six out of ten. Then it's true, we're from Bilbao, we're very good, but there are some things we shouldn't be doing right. And what this is about is that to improve we have to recognize what is not being done right. And you are the teachers in which, when it is necessary to recognize what is not doing well the Government of Spain, the first in line (man, the first!); now, when it is necessary to recognize what is not being done right here, then that is already more complicated. And I say to him: to improve, first know what is not being done well. And, of course, with the long-term unemployed something is not being done right. And I can't understand why an initiative like this, that of the crash plan, can't be accepted! I think it is a timely initiative, I think it is an appropriate initiative, because obviously the situation is what it is, the long-term unemployment is being overtaken right now in Euskadi, and it already needs a shock plan. Man, I understand you guys need time, time to do things. I told you last week, since 2010 we have had the competences of active employment policies (since 2010). Well, as long-term unemployment we see how it is; since 2010 they have been carrying out a comprehensive employment policy for people with disabilities, and we have been carrying out a draft decree of special employment centres since 2014. I understand that you guys need time, but just, look, you know what's going on? Those who don't have time are the long-term unemployed. That is why I believe that the shock plan proposed here is absolutely appropriate. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the argument is over, we're going to vote, we're meeting EH and we're together with the middle-direction signed by Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u23	So, because it's a trap, we're going to vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opposites, 38; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u24	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and Sociialists at the same time. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Abstations 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u25	So the full correction has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The legal proposition made by the parlament of Podemos, concerning the legal observation of the victims of the dictatorship of Fancism. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without reading it. Here you know there's a side shift and a counter shift. Who's going to participate in the next round? Side shift? Together Podemos... That's all... ? Okay. The rest on the other side... ? Let's start with the side shift. Together, Poedemus, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u26	Good. Egun on again. From my group we had recorded this bill because we thought it was a good time and that the conditions were now being laid down for this Parliament, as a democratic institution which is, to fulfil a moral and historical obligation – in our opinion – with regard to the victims of the injustices of the Franco dictatorship. We thought that the law that could see the light after this procedure fulfilled, as I said, a historical role, and that it was the duty of this Parliament to push it forward; for a number of issues, but among them because, if we and we are here today and can defend our ideas before the other groups in this House, it is largely thanks to the thousands and hundreds of thousands of women and men who suffered that injustice that we try to redress legally. As you know, in 1936 a fascist military coup against the Second Spanish Republic triggered a bloody civil war that lasted until 1939. Subsequently, and after the triumph of the Francoist side over the current legality represented by the 1931 Constitution and the 1936 Statute of Autonomy, a dictatorship was imposed for almost four decades that became massive, systematic and serious human rights violations. These human rights violations, including civil and political rights, were part of a planned and conscious policy of repression in order to put an end to all forms of opposition, resistance, dissent or simply of non-affinity with the imposed regime. Thus, hundreds of thousands of people in the State and in Euskadi were persecuted for their political or trade union affiliation, their ideas, their beliefs, their language or other personal choices such as their sexuality. To a large extent, these human rights violations were carried out through the State institutions themselves (not only but also State institutions), in particular through courts and war councils. In fact, repression took place both during the war, in the occupied areas, and later upon the end of the conflict. Much of this repression was carried out by means of war camps, decrees and laws emanating directly from the new constituted power (illegal power, illegal power), in which the offences established, the procedures followed and the procedural guarantees violated the rights and freedoms enshrined in the most elementary sense of human dignity, natural law, the Geneva Conventions or, subsequently, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In Euskadi the application of this new illegitimate legality fell on the War Audit of the Occupation Army, later called the War Audit of the VI Military Region. Although Law 52/2017 of 26 December of the Historical Memory – the well-known Historical Memory Law – was enacted at the state level, these procedures, sanctions and sentences of Francoism were not declared null, despite being one of the historical claims of victims and of collectives and memorialist associations. Taking into account also the requirements of the public authorities, both of the United Nations Human Rights Committee and of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of the Human Rights Council, which stated that appropriate mechanisms should be identified to give effect to the nullity of sentences adopted in violation of the fundamental principles of law and due process during civil war and franchising, we therefore see the need for decisive progress in this area. In the current democratic context, the restoration of the dignity of victims is a path to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. For this reason, this law, in accordance with the legal order, would declare the illegality of the courts, procedures and war councils instructed in the Basque Country from 18 July 1936 to December 1978 by the War Audit of the Occupation Army, later called the War Audit of the Sixth Military Region. The nullity of origin of the proceedings and of the decisions, sentences, convictions and sanctions that emanate, as de facto and non-jurisdictional proceedings that they were, and legally declaring their illegitimacy, should not entail any problem for the law to ascertain and declare the nullity of those facts, and seek also – which is what this law proposes – to establish an agile administrative mechanism to obtain individualized certification of this circumstance that the law would establish and declare. Since the proceedings and decisions handed down by the military courts were public, in order to give effect to the restorative value, this law would empower Gogora, the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights, to draw up and publish a list of trials and judgements. We believe that the time has come to assume historical responsibility to the victims of those trials, to redress the abuses committed by the Franco regime against judicial and procedural legality, and to make the reparations required by the reprisald persons, Basque society and international bodies. We recorded this motion for a law absolutely convinced, as I said at the beginning, that the conditions were in place for it to move forward and for this House to take the initiative into consideration today. We also did so through this procedure, to allow the law to be improved – if it can be improved – with the contributions and amendments of the different parliamentary groups. And we were convinced of this, because we think that in the ideological plurality that exists in this House there is sufficient majority, and I would even say that there could have been unanimity, to bring forward this proposal of law based on the latest facts that have passed recently and that you know. We think that perhaps there is no substantive discrepancy, and that is why we deeply regret that this bill is not going to meet the first necessary procedure today. We believe, and we say so, that the opinion expressed by the Basque Government is a tremendous error, that what we propose exceeds the competence of the autonomous community. We sincerely believe that they have not dealt with the issue with sufficient rigour and, of course, without any enthusiasm. We believe that there is ample reason to believe that this law does not go beyond the competence of the Autonomous Community, and we also see it in the facts. As you know, a law very similar to this was passed a few months ago in the Catalan Parliament; so similar that when my group registered this proposal, basically what it did was to transfer that law to the Basque Country. And this is not casual; this is because that law was not any law, nor had it arisen in any way. That law was passed in the Catalan Parliament after a process of collective work by all the parliamentary groups in that House; a process where all the groups were pending and concerned that the law could not be resorted to by overcompetence. And that finally motivated that law, a law of legal redress for the victims of the Franco dictatorship, to be passed by all groups of the Catalan House, including the People's Party and Citizens. A law that was passed by all groups, which no political party represented in that House or in the Congress of Deputies has challenged in the Constitutional Court, a law that no prosecutor has challenged before the Constitutional Court. For us these are sufficient guarantees, at least at the very least, to be brave and start the process, because we also bring it by a procedure in which the final law may be different from the initial proposal we bring. And that's why we don't understand the fear, the reservations and the denial that there may be today that we start the proceedings for this law. The Catalan law is now in force. It's in force, and no one appeals it. And that's the best proof you can do. And today I believe that this Parliament, unfortunately, so that I am moved by the parliamentary groups, some of them, will not be brave and will not dare with an issue that is, as I said, a historical and moral duty for us and ourselves. The law that is already passed in Catalonia and that we wanted to see the light here has already begun to give results for the people, for the victims. The first certificates recognizing them as victims and recognizing their legal redress have already been issued. Allow me briefly: the first person to receive this certification was journalist Josep Maria Huertas Clavería, a local and neighboring journalist's reference in Barcelona, submitted to a summarizing war council in July 1975 for having published an article entitled "Subterranean erotic life". Her widow said it was clear that the courts had acted against the law and violated the right to a fair trial. I very much regret that there has been no will, and not only that, that there have been, in my opinion, other issues, even cowardly, when it comes to being brave and initiating the process, which, as I say, the proposed law could have been modified in the procedure. I'm very sorry, because there are thousands of Basques and Basques and people from across the state who have been waiting a long time for initiatives and laws like this. We'd have the list later if the law went ahead, but today we can't have that list of victims. But today I would like to put a very special person, who has no special relevance or greater relevance to other victims of the dictatorship, but today my good friend Miguel Usabiaga is here: this person is his father, who is Marcelo Usabiaga (perhaps one of you knows him). [[Shows a photo]] He will no longer be able to see in life the results of that law, if he had gone forward, because he died unfortunately two years ago, but I am sure that his widow, Bittori, and his son Miguel, and with them hundreds of thousands of people throughout the state and also in Euskadi, would agree that today we should have been brave and dared to overcome possible doubts, because, as I say, there are plenty of arguments to be convinced that no one would resort to this law, as has happened in Catalonia. Marcelo was convicted in April 1939, in addition to certain acts which he did not commit, as the nun who attended him attested, for being wounded in the Red Cross of Irun while the facts of which he was accused developed. Even so, he was sentenced to 30 years in prison. He had a hard life, in which he was in prisons, in concentration camps also in France, escaped from prisons, was again convicted, and in total spent more than twenty-one years in the prisons of Franco. This citizen, hernaniara (forgive, irundarra, as he was considered), is one more. There are thousands waiting for a law like this, and I don't think they're going to understand that we're not brave and that we don't dare face legal doubts that don't stand up. Marcelo was sentenced to a prison life simply for having a notebook like this. It's my Communist Party notebook. It's the only reason a person had to spend twenty-one years of his life in prison. But it could have been this Carnet, or it could have been a Carnet of the CNT, the UGT, the ANV, the Basque Nationalist Party of course, and the Socialist Party. And the truth is, I'm very sorry, because I don't think there are enough arguments for us not to start the proceedings of this bill. I'm really sorry. And we thought for a moment that I could see the light. I think we would have been brave, even if there was an unfavorable approach by the Government, because nothing happens, governments are also wrong. And I think it was up to us today to be brave and to have done what they have already done elsewhere and what cannot be challenged, because it is a moral, historical duty, and there must be agreement between all political parties. If we really want to highlight what we call democracy, we must now resolve these kinds of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I want to express our entire surrender, all the respect and solidarity of the EH Union, to all the victims of the franchised courts. All our protection to prisoners, exiles, convicts of labour, even those who have been stripped of their own property, and those who have been sent to prisons. And how could it not be the eternal light of all those who had been shot by the sensations of these tribunals? It is necessary that these condemnations should be discovered and observed by those who have suffered these waters of human rights, and that they should take another step in that way. I am quite satisfied with the explanation Mr. Hernandez has given me, I shall not repeat it. Yes, we can't go back to the truth, we can't restore, restore the harm these people suffered, they were destroyed, but we must search for all the gaps to see as much as possible, these disasters and sufferings to re-establish them. And for this we must spread the few possibilities given us by the Judician system, by the preservation of the limits, the obstacles, and perhaps of the creativity, or the extension of those spheres. Therefore, because the reading is contrary to this creative or dispersal, I want to show that it is contrary to the discovery of those legal openings, and that it yields in some way, with the position in which my astonishment has been brought to us by the Eucommy. I think it's a pity that I don't understand. I would like to express my perplexity about the Basque Government's unfavorable approach to this bill, which I cannot understand, in the light of four arguments or four circumstances that I wish to put forward. The first, the flagrant contradiction that implies that we have been through the whole of last year, as it could not be otherwise, with initiatives commemorating the 80th anniversary of the fascist rebellion that brought us the war to this country, and at last today a substantial initiative, with certain material content, with a certain summation, which is brought to this Parliament, is being rejected by the Government. Ezin, I'm going to go with you. In the second place, it's because of the arguments that M.M. Because it seems to me an absurd criterion, because it proves that the imaginary litigations of the law have more force than that of legitimate ends or political inspirations. Again, legality and legitimacy collide and, as it seems, Euskion, with this position, turns out again against legality. He who proposes such a criterion is signed by the Lord Errena, by the criterion, and I think that his is his first argument, is the default of all the limits of the legal system, and so appears as limited to political purposes, self-limited. I will not question them, Mr. Erkoa, your legal knowledge of them, I do not deny them, but they affect you self-centred, and I think that you have brought this position with censorship today. And rather than reading what this subject deserves, a technical reading is brought to us, and we think it was the moment of political determination. And we thought that Mr. Erkoárea can't, in any way, conceal his position between the legal frames, because after all he limits political decisions. We had to look for political solutions on this subject, and today we have a lot of fracas in front of it. Thirdly, because the attitude adopted by the Basque Government in its opinion, saying that it is contrary to the law, is that they say that something cannot be done, while the other side, in the same circumstances, is already doing so. They will say that it is an obsession, perhaps also Mr Hernández has commented, but it is that in Catalonia they are doing it. They've made this decision, and they're putting it in motion. And they have the same competence or lack of competence that we and we have. Moreover, as mentioned above, they have done so unanimously. And in addition, the Constitutional Court, always well placed to throw at any decision that does not fit in those narrow margins of the Constitution, has said nothing. You've made no objection. And today I wonder: is the Basque Government going to be stricter when it comes to censoring its own powers than the Constitutional Court? Because today I come to the conclusion that yes, it is being stricter. But it is not only that Catalonia has taken a step-by-step decision to bring the nullity of sentences of Francoist courts, it is not only a matter of taking decisions, but it is also making that decision. And I also want to show you something: "Generality of Catalonia; Department of Justice, declares illegal the courts of the War Hearing of the Occupation Army" (the army of occupation, it is well understood)... "declares the nullity of the right, originating or surviving" (original and arising) "of all the causes, feelings and resolutions, among which is the procedure against Lluís Companies Jover". I consider this text to be a historic document. This resolution, this recognition, I consider it an expression of dignity. Presumably it cannot be done here, and yet the Generalitat is already issuing these kinds of declarations, certifications. Don't you want to do it, gentlemen of the Basque Government? Because I would like you to wish, to deliver a statement in the same terms, in the name of Cándido Saseta, in the name of Aitzol, Alfredo Espinosa, José Placer, of the sixteen of Azazeta, of the fourteen of Santoña, of Txiki, of Otaegui, or, of course, of Marcelo Usabiaga, hemen gure artean dagoela, agur eta ohore. I would like them to be recognized by saying that the death penalty applied to them was not only illegitimate, but also illegal, because it was applied by illegal courts, the result of a coup d'état, and therefore null and void. In Catalonia they will issue 69,000 certificates like this, and here we don't even have a list of who we should recognize and repair in these terms. With the lack of will to be expressed before this law, we are even further away from doing so, which I believe is a real fatality, a penalty. I'd like to give a fourth reason to hate the company's position. As I have said, a proposition of this kind was unanimously maintained in Catalonia, and all of them, even by Citagandos and the populars of the Xabier Albios. I don't know whether they did it with conviction, or whether it was forced by a majority to do it with that law in Katalunia. But here, the position of government makes it easier for the opposites of the Albioms to resist this legal proposition, because they will use the same excuse, i.e. the absence of jurisdiction. It will also be legalists, although in this case they will do it for the profound reasons that must be mallized-that is to say, the representatives of sociological Fricism will not ask for the crime of francism because they do not want it because they are still defending the franchise. But today it's easy for them to get used to it, because the Euskookos has taught them the way to this proposal, because you've done them a favor, Mr. Erkoek, you gave them a grip so they won't be replaced today. I'm done. We must say firmly that the penalties of the fascist tribunals were not only illegal, like the law of memory in 52/2007, but also illegal. We must say that the declarations of war, Tribunal de Butn Público, the verdicts which the military media have solved for four decades, are nululo. We must say that pain, suffering, an unjust attack against physical and moral integration against people, is a nullus. We must and must observe these subversions against the right of life. And institutions, euscal institutions, must also work this work, this course. The Euskal administration is in the hands of this road, but today, unfortunately, we will not take this step, and today the EAJ and the Poptular Party will refuse. Today, on the way to the burning and observation of the victims of franchise, we have a sacasso scandal on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u29	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. On the counter shift. On the contrary... ? Against the Turks... ? Then we're going to the vote. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 27; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u30	So it's not a question of legal proposal. After that, as we're going to the vote, Euscala Popular, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u31	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it's laudable the proponent's will, but it's not a problem of courage. From our point of view, it is a problem of competences and it is a problem of location of legality. Of course, judgments of courts and judicial bodies that have operated in the past can be declared null and void, but this nullity cannot be declared, from our legal analysis and from our point of view, a law of the Basque Parliament in any case. And so it would be a failure to pass a law without legal force, which would be a double frustration. Firstly, because a law would be passed on an issue in which this Parliament has no competence and would be impossible to apply. And, second, because it would cause frustration in people who can really seek the nullity of the judicial sentences of the past, and the instrument used is not useful to their claim. Of course, we do not go into the substance of the matter, but rather into the instrument used for the proponent's claim. Moreover, this is not a proposal of law; it is a proposal of law, and it needs a channel, a path that we do not see in this initiative. A journey that this initiative – we understand from the regulatory, legal, competitive, legal analysis that we make of this initiative – cannot pass through this House. Of course there have been serious injustices. Of course, there must be recognition of illegitimacy and lack of guarantee in many trials of the past, but the injustices that could have been caused by the proper procedure, which will be through the judicial proceedings and the review processes and the corresponding judgments declaring the nullity of previous judgments, must be corrected, even though this also after the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, which establishes the grounds for the annulment of a judgment and the introduction of new cases of review. Or, if not, a general law declaring judicial proceedings void, or a reform of the Historical Memory Act cited above. But not a law of this Parliament. It would have to be a law of the General Courts, a law of the Congress of Deputies. It would also seem from the speeches that have been made that nothing has been done, but the fundamental has already been declared, the fundamental has already been approved. It is clear that they have Law 52/2007, which declares the illegitimacy of proceedings, in three phases and in three very robust statements. Article 3 states that "the illegitimacy of the courts and jurors and any other criminal or administrative bodies established during the Civil War to impose, for political, ideological or religious reasons, personal sentences or sanctions, as well as those of their resolutions". That's what the law has said, that's part of our legal system. It has also been said that "because they are contrary to the law and violate the most basic requirements of the right to a fair trial, the lawfulness of the Court of Repression of Freemasonry and Communism and the Court of Public Order, as well as the courts of political responsibilities and war councils constituted on political, ideological or belief grounds, in accordance with article 2 of the Historical Memory Act", has been declared. And it also says in a third paragraph that "the convictions and sanctions handed down for political and ideological reasons during the dictatorship against those who defended the previous institutional legality are declared illegitimate, for reasons of form and substance." In other words, these three issues have already advanced. I mean, what you're trying to say has already been declared. He's already declared himself! That's right, the problem is that illegitimacy, which is the word used by the law to disrupt all those judgments and all that court work, is a political rather than a legal term, and this can still cause problems of application before the courts, and that must be acknowledged. I have spoken of the need perhaps for some other reforms to be addressed, but this is not the place, Mr Hernández. This is not the place, and that is why we voted against it. You and the parliamentary groups have the opportunity to seek in other chambers other procedures, other majorities and other possibilities of change of legality. Here is what the law says, what the law reminds us of, and if it is now a question of identifying suitable mechanisms to give effect to the nullity of judgments adopted in violation of the fundamental principles of law and due process during the Civil War and Francoism, we must look for appropriate channels. And an autonomous law is not the opportune channel, it is not purposely to make that nullity effective. It can't be, it isn't. The question would be: Would this proposal of law be useful for citizens? The answer is no. It would be perfectly useless, because it would be perfectly inapplicable. That is why we have opposed taking this initiative into consideration. The possibilities are somewhere else. And, yes, some condemn the trial, the judgment of Lluís Companies; however, not a word from Fernando Buesa, Gregorio Ordóñez or Enrique Casas, former companions of this House. Thank you very much. I'm saying it for that one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u32	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u33	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group has voted in line with its will not to impede the processing of this non-law proposal on legal redress for the victims of the Franco dictatorship. The legal services of the Basque Government have issued disconcerting criteria for strictly technical reasons, but which we politically believe we can resolve in the debate before us. And because in addition the path of recognition of these victims we started it precisely from the socialist government, searching in our area of competence from the department that led Idoia Mendia, in the development of a law approved shortly before in Congress, not without little effort and by the hand of another Basque socialist, then Minister Ramón Jáuregui. We understand the cautions of the legal services of the current Basque Government, without prejudice to the demonstrated commitment to the protection and defence of the victims. They are cautions that we interpret in order not to generate frustration for the possible competitive interpretation that could be made, given the lack of will of the Rajoy Government in an extensive reading, as we have just seen with the Law on the Recognition of Police Victims. And, despite those repairs we knew, we were able to improve and agree on that law that is already going to start repairing those victims. Because the socialists have an ambitious and useful conception of self-government. Only by expressing our competences have we achieved things as important to the citizenry as the compensation of pharmaceutical replenishment, the right to housing, turning into subjective right to have a minimum income. That's what explains our position. I insist that we had, if it had not been for the rejection we have just seen, an opportunity to correct the correctability of the paper to be opened. In any case, the socialists do see that there are precedents that should endorse the legal and competitive origin and the broad political endorsement of the content of this bill, because it coincides with the law adopted in Catalonia with the vote of the PP included, without that competence being questioned or appealed. That Parliament has come out of something whose legality is not questioned, and with that degree of support, we already seem to take into account, because what is done is to deduce (do not declare), with the project that it had brought us, the nullity of full right originating or arising from all the judgments and resolutions of the cases investigated and of the war councils dictated by political causes in Catalonia. It is true that reparation for the victims of Francoism is not exhausted for the purpose of this law. I would say more: that even the objectives of this law can be ratified and given greater and better effectiveness when addressing this issue through a bill in the Congress of Deputies, which does so with the leadership of the PSOE, a reason added for not wanting to hinder this proposal. But that there may be greater and better effectiveness does not mean that what is intended in this proposal is not valid, legal or positive, for the purposes of meeting the rights of justice, reparation, truth and guarantee of non-repetition of the victims of the Civil War and Franco dictatorship. Those of us who promoted and made possible the Historical Memory Act have an obligation, together with their claim, to recognize, ten years after their adoption, that the advance that constituted the declaration of the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts, of their convictions and sanctions, has not been enough to close a human and social wound of the victims. And closing that wound of our past is also an obligation for socialists and for all Basques, an obligation for all those who aspire to a more prosperous future in peace, memory, coexistence and truth. I know that the Basque Government shares, starting with the lehendakari, who has stressed it on several occasions with pride, it shares that in this matter there are no ideological or partisan differences, because we all feel represented and committed to the initiatives that have this common goal for a country's interest. We are convinced that among all of us we will overcome the doubts and questions that have led us not to find ourselves in this debate. I have no doubt, because I am convinced that the Basque citizens and the groups that we represent here want to repeat in the next moment a similar expression (dignity, commitment and generosity), such as that of the Parliament of Catalonia in that proposal for an approved law, identical in the content that has not been taken into consideration today. Let us hope that in the near future those who suffered will be able to see their honor restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u34	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. We are essentially agreed on by the Federal solutions, not only allowed, but also the noodles, but the way proposed is not the proper way. We fully agree that the Francoist courts should not simply be declared illegitimate, as in the Memory Act ten years ago, but should also be declared illegal. We also fully agree that the sentences handed down by those courts should not only be illegitimate, as in the Memory Act 2007, but should also be declared null and void. Obviously, if we do not recognize them and label them illegal and illegitimate, all their sentences, of course, cannot be accepted. But here we are facing a problem of form. We are 100 per cent in agreement with the explanatory statement of the proposal, we are 100 per cent in agreement with even the articulated text, but there is a problem so that we vote against this law. We are talking about a very sensitive subject; a subject which, like many, has a background and a form. The bottom line is this is a very visceral matter, and you have to take good care of it. That is why I want to defend and make clear what the vote is in this case of the PNV: it is a vote that simply goes to the way that this bill has been put forward; it does not touch at all on the substance. We have two ways: the Catalan way, and the way of the unfavorable approach of the Basque Government, whose paragraph I shall read, although you will already know it. Speaking of this initiative, he says that "this agreement, despite its undeniable desire for reparation, exceeds the powers conferred on the Basque Autonomous Community to declare unlawful judicial bodies constituted in the past and to deduce whether or not the decisions they adopted are null and void". I used to say it's a very visceral subject. On the one hand we have the memory, the feeling, the ideology, the viscera, and on the other hand we have the purely legal and formal theme. In the first matter we are – I repeat, because I am going to repeat it many times in the time I have left – 100 percent agree, applying our ideology, our feeling, our memory and our passion in everything that is said and in everything that is requested in this law. But then, in the face of the two paths that we have opened up (the Catalan way and the non-favorable declaration of the Basque Government), we have obviously chosen that of the Basque Government. Time will say which of the two has the most route, time will say which of the two has been the most appropriate, but now, of course, we have to affirm and reaffirm ourselves in the unfavourable approach of the Basque Government. And as an example to support this our negative vote today I will put what has also been said before in the rostrum: the activity of Gogora, the activity of the Basque Government. The Basque Government has done dozens of events this year, all called and presided over by the Lehendakari Urkullu and organized by Gogora. We started the year at the Colombario de Elgoibar, opening it; we continued in spring here the Gasteiz Cerquita, in Azazeta, paying tribute to the sixteen shot, including the democratic mayor of Gasteiz; followed Santoña, followed many more. And I will never forget that in Azazeta, along with the lehendakari, a couple of octogenarians, who had a flag that was half Ikurriña and half Republican, also had red and black CNT and FAI stickers... There was, as in all the acts that Lehendakaritza has mounted this year in memory of the victims of Franco, communist flags, anarchists, socialists, ikurriñas, republicans... there was everything. That is to say, I believe that no one can doubt the intention and what the Basque Government has done during this year and during its years of existence to recognize the victims of Francoism. This is a subject I have said before that is very easy to manipulate. Tomorrow there may be a headline saying "The PNV voted against...", and that is why I want to repeat, for the fourth time in five minutes, what I have said machaconically in my speech: in the background, 100 percent completely agree, we have no problem with the statement of reasons, in the background and even in the text; but formally we believe that from the legal, cold and legal point of view, this law has no path, and that is why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Third point in theme list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentary Parlamentarian Group made about the accessability of Osa. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Representative of the American Basque Groups has the word to present and defend the initiative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u36	Well, eskerrik asko, andrea president. The Popular Party brings forward an idea of the accessability of the hospitals of the Osalists to the legislature after the Public Council report. I thought it possible to make an arrangement on this subject, but in the end it is clear that with the government, and especially with the Jestle Party, we have had the chance to make an agreement, but in the end, according to the state of government, the agreement is impossible. I'll talk about this later. We present this initiative on accessibility in hospitals in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which includes not only the centres of Osakidetza, but also the centres of the concerted network, and I must regret that the compromise amendment that has been signed, and in which an agreement has been reached, has not finally been able to join the parties that support the Government, expressly the Basque Nationalist Party, when we had an approach to a virtually closed agreement, and at the last moment the Government, which has seen the text, has said no. The government will have to explain why, when the advisor the other day in the Health Committee itself refers to the fact that this issue is an important issue, that a budget allocation of EUR 1 million will be made available in the budgets to respond to the problem of the accessibility of hospital facilities in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, when today we were working on an agreement, which I also think was very positive, at the last moment the government has disarranged itself from that agreement. Let us hope that Mrs Berasaluze will give us the appropriate explanations, because I do not think she has an explanation that an agreement echoing the proposals on the elaboration of a strategy by the Basque Government on the accessibility of hospital facilities in the Basque Autonomous Community, and also an initiative that she intended (and therefore also the agreement) to draw up accessibility plans in those hospitals that do not have a specific plan today, because we do not understand where the problem lies, when, finally, in the compromise amendment, all the suggestions and proposals made to us by the Basque Nationalist group have been collected. We do not understand the last door of this Government to an agreement on accessibility, and I will then also raise many issues with regard to the negotiations. Because, when a negotiation seems to bear fruit, at the last moment it is given folder, in addition to a collective that has worked on this report in a very... , very elbowed with the Ararteko himself. Yo creo además que hay que... Well, we're grateful for the file introduced by the Old Arts. The report is very large, very well done. I believe that different opinions have been taken in this matter, both in the opinions of professionals and in the opinions of associations which work in this matter. And in the end, I think the report is pretty good, and I think the things he talks about would be convenient for this government to consider. We think we ought to keep this problem in mind, and that that's why an answer was necessary. When we talk about people who have problems with access to the hospitals of the Basque Autonomous Community we are talking about problems in the external sphere, in all the itineraries of access to the hospitals themselves, as reflected in the Ararteko report: parking lots, bus stops, access also through the entrances of the hospitals themselves... And when we are also talking about accessibility and accessibility problems, we are talking not only about groups of people who may have reduced mobility or physical disability, but also about people who have vision problems, or hearing problems, as has been clearly stated in this report. He also said that, apart from referring to the problems of accessibility in the external sphere, in the itineraries of access to the hospital itself, reference should be made to accessibility in the internal sphere, in access to rooms, waiting rooms, diagnostic rooms, testing rooms, boxes themselves, as clearly reflected in the Ararteko report. We all know that, and I want to say that this issue has also been dealt with in many initiatives in this House, in the committees and in the plenary. That is why I am surprised that the Government has not made it possible for us to reach agreement on this issue. We are all aware of the added difficulties faced by groups with reduced mobility or difficulties in mobility, communication and understanding. That is why Ararteko himself, when talking about accessibility problems, spoke about these basic typologies: mobility, communication and understanding of people with disabilities. We see, then, that men who have a perfect inability, have not their powers as a whole. The Ararteko report itself refers to a diagnosis. It is confined to sixteen public network hospitals, twelve concerted hospitals, eight psychiatric hospitals and seven services in Osatek. Reference is made to conclusions and recommendations. We felt that the diagnosis in this report was very important, concluding the shortcomings that exist in the field of accessibility, in the various aspects that I have pointed out: the external aspect and the internal aspect, and also the mobility itself between the buildings of the same hospital complex. In this diagnosis, opinions have also been shared with professionals, with the associations that are behind all these groups, with people with disabilities... And, therefore, I believe that in that sense a thorough work has been done. There is talk of the lack of plans, and in this sense it is pointed out that there is only one hospital that has a specific mobility plan, which is the hospital in Zumárraga. And what we wanted with the initiative we were presenting, the non-law proposal, was to make reference to the need for the Basque Government, the Department of Health, to draw up a diagnosis, based also on this diagnosis already elaborated and carried out by the extraordinary report of Ararteko; that there are also the improvements made... It is true that, for example, in the last hospital that has been opened, the hospital in Urduliz, there have been substantial improvements, but in the older construction hospitals there are significant shortcomings. It is also important to us that in the development of this strategy proposed by Ararteko and which we propose in our initiative, apart from this diagnosis, we make a planning of the actions to be carried out, also with the development of the relevant timetable, as well as the budgetary appropriations for its implementation. And on the other hand, we also thought it important to make that accessibility plan in those centers..., which, as I say, are the majority or the vast majority, given that only the centre of Zumarraga has a specific accessibility plan. In line with what we were working specifically with the group to which the advisor belongs, the Basque Nationalist Party, we had made a lot of approach. The agreement was practically closed that the Basque Government should develop a corporate strategy for comprehensive accessibility (even this term has been introduced at the suggestion of the Basque Nationalist Party); that the elaboration of this strategy should work with local and collective institutions of persons with disabilities; that people with visual and hearing difficulties should also be included; and that the previous diagnosis should be drawn up, which I also understand that there can be little problem in the Government's preparation of a prior diagnosis, when Ararteko has already made a diagnosis. It is a question of taking into account this diagnosis and adding those issues that the department considers to be capable of adding. On the other hand, we asked for a link between the actions to be carried out in that strategy, with a timetable for the development of those actions and, of course, the budgetary appropriations for their implementation. We understand that when we talk about a strategy, or we talk about actions, or we talk about timing, then, what less about all that set of actions to be carried out within the strategy itself, which collect the budget that accompanies the implementation of the various actions! We know very well the commitment at least in relation to the demonstrations that the Health Commission itself pointed out to all of us on the other day. That is why I am surprised, and we have been shocked by this group, which we regret, that in the end the Government has not joined in an initiative that we believe is absolutely sensible, which calls for things that the Government had to be willing to do, and when the Government has also committed itself to allocating a sum of EUR 1 million in the budgets to fill the accessibility gaps in this area. We have even introduced a specific paragraph in relation to the development of accessibility plans in each of the centres, and also that this strategy takes into account the measures resulting from the community health working groups formed by integrated health organizations (OSIs). We also felt that this provision should be taken into account, since the adviser himself referred to this issue in the committee in his own appearance. And finally, something that I believe we all also had to agree on is the compliance by the public administrations with the forecasts or actions or measures provided for in the Act on Accessibility itself of the year 97. This is the agreement that up to the last hour it seemed possible, with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, that we were negotiating with the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party in this matter. At the last moment we were awaiting the signature, and at the last moment the Government has said no to this agreement. I hope, Mrs Berasaluze, that you will explain clearly – as you support the Government and the adviser in this case – that you will explain clearly what the reasons have finally led your group not to support this agreement, which is what we were working on and, as I say, that it was simply about to stamp out the signature of all the groups. At the end of this text, the signature of those groups that I understood had the commitment we had, and two groups are missing, which are the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. Which I have to say that I deeply regret, because it seems to me that it was a matter on which we had a chance to move forward. A committee initiative on accessibility was also adopted in this House last February, and it was unanimously adopted by all groups! Therefore, I understand that it is a sufficiently sensitive matter, for then, when we begin to draft an agreement in which this group has obviously left its hair on the net, and obviously we have not put all our demands, we have made an effort to reach this compromise... And therefore I do not understand that in the end the Basque Nationalist Party did not want to sign this agreement. What cannot be, and I think this is an absolute contradiction, is that we come to the Committee on Budgets two days ago, it is pointed out that it is a matter of concern to the Government in relation to the Ararteko's extraordinary report on accessibility in the hospitals of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and then, when we have the opportunity to translate those commitments into specific issues and a concrete agreement, the Basque Nationalist Party has disengaged itself from this agreement. I believe that, if the numbers do not fail me, there will be a tie, except that in the Basque Nationalist Party and the groups that support the Government (I am referring expressly to the Basque Nationalist Group because it is the party with which the negotiation has taken place, since the adviser belongs to the Basque Nationalist Party) there can be a reflection and at least they can abstain and this agreement can go ahead, which I believe is a good agreement. I believe that this is a significant step forward, and also in line with a report which I believe has led to an important effort, which we have all praised in the committee where Ararteko recently presented this report. We all had the opportunity to raise our thoughts, to clarify or raise our doubts, and the Ararteko to clarify them. Therefore, gentlemen, I hope that you will at least abstain, so that this agreement can go ahead. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours. URIA SERRANO jaunak: Bakartxo Tajeria anderea, parliamentary colleagues, councillor, councillors. A few days ago I was with my friend Karmele, a tetraplegic many years ago, a public administration official, and I said to him, "Hey, you are going to discuss in Parliament these issues of accessibility, of an excellent report that has presented to us by Ararteko, and I would like to know how I can influence the conscience, the awareness of my fellow parliamentarians." And he said to me, "Well, first, let the law be enforced. And second, tell the counselor, you know him well, or the management teams of the hospitals, or those responsible for patient care services, or the quality technicians of the hospitals, who enter a hospital and sit in a wheelchair and say 'Good.' To go to gynaecology consultations?'. And let's see what happens. Or keep your eyes closed: 'Good. To go do an effort test on Cardiology?'. And then they say what they've been feeling. Or close your ears and try to figure out if your family doctor or specialist informs you of the therapeutic guidelines that always exist in every consultation. This is much better than any meeting, any interview with affected groups, any Ararteko report or any non-legislative proposal coming out of the Basque Parliament." That's how I say it. There really isn't much to say. Very briefly, compliance with the law is Law 20/1997, of 4 December, on the subject of accessibility. To comply with the non-legislative proposals, I insist, that this Parliament by broad consensus approves, which was adopted here on the subject on 15 February 1997. And then remember some questions about Ararteko's report that we discussed in the committee last week. I will highlight issues that I have already commented on and which seem particularly relevant to me. The first issue in the area of accessibility to health facilities is that it is of great interest to all and to open permanent channels of communication between management teams, quality technicians and techniques, those responsible for patient care services, health professionals and professionals, and affected individuals and groups. It has to be a real highway the relationship between the different groups that have to do with the elaboration of the accessibility plans of each center. It is important, even if it works, to improve the democratic culture of health organizations in order to know the problems of groups like this. The second issue that caught our attention from Ararteko's report is that, of course, here we are talking about external communication, internal communication, communication within hospitals, Osatek centres and concerted units. In my opinion there is a problem of institutional type, of institutional coordination: even if a modern or new hospital has few internal accessibility problems, and have them more the older structures of our network of hospital and health services as a whole, it is no less true that, if there is not adequate coordination with municipalities and disputations on issues such as accessibility, transport, frequency, communication points, the matter does not work, as has already been pointed out in the results of the Ararteko report. Therefore, in our view, inter-agency coordination needs to be properly combined to improve the communication and internal and external accessibility processes of our health facilities. I would like to highlight here the facilitating attitude of the Osakidetza staff of health centres when there are problems of physical or sensory accessibility. It is normal for auxiliaries, cellists, doctors and nursing professionals to accompany people who do not see, people who do not hear or people with reduced physical mobility, when there are barriers, to the services or to the centers they visit. It is normal, and this has been detected by the report. Also highlight the real difficulty of some diagnostic tests. For example, the last contact I had – I mentioned it the other day in committee – with our outpatient clinics in Osakidetza is that I went to do an audiometry, to listen a little better to the debates in this Parliament, which we do not have to miss the details. In that cabin there was no wheelchair, and I said to the nurse, very attentive and my friend: "And when a person comes with a wheelchair, what do you do?". He said, "No, we can't do an audiometry here." –"Do you do it off?". "It's hard, there's noise pollution, we don't have equipment..." "And in the hospital?". "I'm not sure." I also took a couple of tests, because I'm walking on a knee that... and I got a badge and a resonance in Osatek. In those cabins there were no wheelchairs (where I was, in my outpatient clinic, in which I was touched). Not only some diagnostic tests are objective accessibility problems, but also gynecological consultations. Karmele specifically commented to me, for gynecological reviews of tetraplegic people or people with reduced mobility, it is a very complex matter, it is a conquest of space. Waiting room places, and especially some counters: although reforms have been made and our more modern hospitals endure the evaluation well, there are some counters made to stop the enemy or so, in some public centers and in some hospitals. It is true, even when there are pieces of low counter to care for people with reduced mobility in wheelchairs, sometimes, as the Ararteko report comes up, they put printers, or paper, or things like that, brochures... I believe that this sensitivity to access counters, especially for people with reduced mobility, is essential. Individual and social rights belong to all, or are not, and you have important shortcomings. It is important that deadlines be set, as proposed by the non-law proposal of comrade Laura Garrido, whom we support Elkarrekin Podemos. And then we raise some issues which, in our opinion, are of some importance in the end. We need a more inclusive society, as the Ararteko proposes, and we need to prepare the society of our future, because it is up to us all. One thing is that 38% of the population has problems of temporary or permanent accessibility (i.e. problems of reduced mobility, or other dysfunctions), but the rates of ageing in our villages and neighborhoods and the population dynamics we have in the Basque population pyramid advise to fix these problems as soon as possible, because they will touch us. And only that these more inclusive scenarios, where already the health advisor, here present, has publicly committed to establishing accessibility plans by center... For we only propose that these accessibility plans by centre should listen to the affected groups, to the professionals, to the caregivers, who have enough to say, so that situational diagnoses and accessibility plans also have to do with quantitative and qualitative opinions. Nothing more. Just comment, as parliamentarian Laura has said, man, that it is quite incomprehensible what the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party – if their intention to vote remains – propose. On a simple subject, such as accessibility, whose source of information is the same as the Ararteko report and where we raise nothing other than compliance with the law, it is very difficult to understand that there is no consensus. If there is no consensus in this Parliament on simple issues, on issues of little political dimension, what are we going to do about political problems? Aren't we coming, or what? Accessibility to health facilities. The diagnosis is made, the law is made, the collectives have expressed their opinions. We think all political groups are alike. Why don't we get out of here with the five parliamentary groups agreeing on a matter? I know that the MP of the People's Party has made an effort, such as the MP of Bildu or ourselves. Why don't the PNV and the PSOE sign? Why do you want to do things alone? Hard to explain. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature. Between society, in general, and the principles which govern the system of health and social services, there is a principle of equality and universality. The collected EH supposes this principle to be fundamental, and according to this, we believe that we ought to take the measures of positive action to prevent and transcend the social shores. In this sense, and in our present subject, we have clearly to guarantee the rights of persons who have a functionary difference in all circumstances. Inside it we place access as a whole. And no one is likely to doubt that the necessity of securing the physical and sensibilities of public buildings, much less if the EAE hospitals exist among public buildings. It sounds like a lie, but from a report made today by the interrogator, most of the hospitals in the Osatiments don't complete minimal terms of access. We think there are three basic elements about this reality. The first, which was adopted in 1987, is not the Law of Suspicibility. This law compels public edifices expressly to make adaptations, and it is evident that it is the next step of this article of execution. Unfortunately the second principle of equality and universality, which we have formerly observed, is frequently overlooked. The third is indispensable and irretrievable to produce a change of mentality, and this change must be given in the whole of society, but especially amongst the persons of public concern. For us it serves little to commit certain concrete works in some hospitals and to believe that with that it has already been fulfilled, if we do not change mentality, because to meet minimum conditions of accessibility one must think in a transversal way, and that is what is usually not done. It is customary to fall into the mistake of thinking that we must build public centers, hospitals in this case, and adapt them to that collective that has "difficulties" to access these centers normally. But that's not the way. From the beginning we have to think that we all leave on equal terms, even if each of us operates in a different way, with different abilities, with a wheelchair or without it, with a hearing aid or without it, with a cane or without it. But they're all on the same level. Because, if not, it will fall into a paternalist, welfareist and good policy, which is far removed from what this group wants to put forward in this House today. That's why we were talking about this need for urgent mental change. And it shows this need are some of the issues that appear in the Ararteko report and that we would like to point out. For example, in most hospitals where are the adapted rooms located? On the same floor. Do you really believe that patients with different ages, pathologies, and needs have to be placed on the same floor, just because they need an adapted bathroom or a different bed? Why are they placed on the same floor, taking into account their way of functioning, and are not assigned a plant or zone by specialty, like everyone else? It is clear that we must start thinking differently. Why do bedrooms often lie in traumatology? Well, obviously, because they're intended for patients in traumatology, because they're predictable for watered patients. And that's not the way. Why in the new hospitals or centres, in Urdulic or in Guernica, have several gaps or adaptations been discovered? In Guernica, for instance, there's no associated community. Because they don't think of all the different needs at the moment of building those centers. Eta zeresanik ez irisgarritas a sensorial buruz hitz egiten dugunean. Let's put ourselves on a deaf person's skin, inside a magnetic resonance. Anyone who has made a magnetic resonance knows perfectly well what that device is like. Well, we'd feel completely isolated. In the course of that test, if the staff had to communicate with us, or vice versa, how would we do that? And how would we know that it's up to us to go to a consultation, which is our turn, or to a test, if they happen to call us by a loudspeaker? How can a blind person find out that he has to go to a consultation, when in some waiting rooms he only runs the number with a sound? But blind people, if they don't go with someone else, don't have an elevator, for instance. We could give a lot of examples, because many people don't have the opportunity to run around the hospital to get a proper amount of autonomy and attention. But unfortunately, this change of mentality we require cannot be inserted in a middle-correction or half-correction. This necessity is self-interest, the responsibility of all persons, and it is all in our power to penetrate into this point of view. We've got to be pragmatic and, through medium signed, we've made three important points. We consider it necessary to make a thorough analysis of the situation we are in. To this end, we call for the development of a strategy with a prior diagnosis, for urgent measures to be taken, and for the elimination of all these accessibility problems with which we find ourselves. And counting, of course, on the collectives involved, who have a lot, a lot to say on this subject. Diagnosis, strategy, timetable, budget allocation, because we believe that this is how things should be done. We propose that a specific plan be drawn up in each OSI, taking into account what this shared diagnosis says and taking into account the nuances that Ararteko also proposes. And to comply with the Accessibility Act, of course, which has been failing for twenty years in many respects. This compromise amendment contains key points such as those we have just pointed out, which EH Bildu also proposed in its amendment as a whole. It is certainly not the agreement that we could have signed at first, but, well, it is an agreement designed to be adopted unanimously in this House. It is an agreement that captures accessibility issues far beyond physics; it is an agreement that captures OSI plans by OSI; it is an agreement that takes into account deaf people, blind people, other abilities, which the Ararteko report had also left in some way unattended. And, as I said, it is certainly not the agreement that we would have liked (as Mrs Garrido said, yes, we have left many hairs in the catera), but it seems to us to be a good agreement and an agreement designed to adopt unanimously in this House. This is what the party proposers now, together with Podemos and EH Collect, appear in the medium signed. And we clearly see that this agreement proposes a little progress. We know we're not going to solve everything, but if we get something, go ahead. Just this first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u41	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to you all, counselors, counselor Darpón. Indeed, the issue of accessibility is not a new one, as almost none of those dealing with health issues in this House, and in this Parliament we have dealt with it on several occasions. The last two times, until this very Tuesday, had been the result of that report prepared by Ararteko, and in the past full of control in a question to Councilman Arriola, who, although not in relation to Osakidetza, did raise law enforcement in general terms and in relation to the department that he himself runs. On 4 December, as has already been said here and as has been repeated on countless occasions, it will be twenty years after the adoption of the law, which in its approach sought to go beyond the removal of barriers and architectural barriers for those who suffer physical limitations. The Accessibility Act defends, as Mr Arriola said the other day, the values of freedom and equality of all people. It is true that, although the law is in force and many progress has been made, which I believe we are all able to recognise in this House and in other institutions, where this issue has also been taken, it is still fair to acknowledge that much remains to be done. And that's the case that concerns us today and that brings us Mrs. Garrido with this non-law proposal. On 30 October this report was submitted, which I have been told by those who have spoken before me, a report whose objective was to know and analyse the situation in the field of accessibility of the Euskadi hospitals, in order to enable persons with disabilities and reduced mobility to access and use hospitals on an equal basis. But it referred to those who have problems not only in physical access, but also sensory access, and hence the importance of access for deaf and blind people. It analysed the specific situation faced by these people, and what they are asking the Administration for law enforcement. Two issues were raised in that report, on the basis of which we understand that it aims to: take measures to ensure compliance with the accessibility regulations, and seek, or claim, to raise awareness of the need for the Health Administration to comply with existing accessibility legislation, both within and outside health centres. In addition, it raised the need to carry out an accessibility plan with an adequate chronological fixation in the different hospitals, where existing problems are collected, in order to be able to address them and correct them in the near future. The Basque Socialists, in the voice of my colleague Gloria Sánchez, we said at the time that for us the difficulty was in, once the quadrennial plans were drawn up and the needs prioritized, determining the financial resources to undertake the necessary improvements to remove all the barriers that have been detected in them. Because it is true that the Ararteko report in a detailed way was saying, one by one, possible actions, but it is also true that in addition to making reports, which is fine, we must take into account the economic possibilities available in this case to Mr Darpón's department, but other affected departments. The issue of accessibility – as has also been said here – is a cross-cutting issue within the Government, it does not affect a single department or there is only one responsible, but it concerns all the councils, and it is an issue of concern and concern for each one of them to deal with this issue efficiently. But just forty-eight hours ago, in the appearance of budgets, the health adviser of this government reported the existence of a budget line of EUR 1 million for physical and sensory accessibility. He himself acknowledged that it is not going to be enough to alleviate all the shortcomings today, because we have very good hospitals, very good infrastructure, but indeed some are many years old and it would be complicated for a million euros to give for everything. That is the general approach the Socialist Party wanted to take. Indeed, I wish we had been able to reach an agreement, I hope unanimously, and in which we would all recognize... I believe that we all recognize the need to act on the issue of accessibility; I believe that we all recognize the importance of that law, which is going to be twenty years old, and the importance of its fulfilment, and I hope that we have reached an agreement. The Socialist Group is part of the coalition government, of course, and we are not going to vote for this amendment, which has been signed by three opposition groups, but if I had to keep something, I would have to say that there will be a million euros that were not there before (that is, in Mr Darpón's department), and there is also a budget line raised by Mr Arriola's department, which is also addressed to the issue of accessibility. Therefore, when it is said that the law is not being complied with, much remains to be done, but it is also fair to acknowledge that the report speaks in detail of many acts, and when a project is asked for an economic memory attached in order to be able to comply with what that report says, it is also fair to acknowledge that, all that was raised in that report – which I do not say is not true, which is of course true, because it is done in detail – it is very complicated for the department in this case of Mr Darpón to be able to comply with each of the requests made in it. There is therefore a million euros, it is the beginning of a job, the recognition that there is work to be done, and, as I say, in this case unanimity has not been possible, but we will continue to work for accessibility to deepen the freedom of those who need it most. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u42	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u43	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Chief physician, good noon, even to you. The interrogator has made a diagnosis of access to people who have been disabled in the hospitals of our Erdigo, in a special report, and in the 30th of October, about this report which was reported at the Human Rights Committee, and we all had the opportunity to explain our questions and our opinion. And from the result of this report, he represents this proposition as well as the popular groups dispute. We must regard this law of '97, which has often been spoken before, not yet full of its whole, but is gradually followed. And apart from this, also the 68/2000 Decree, which develops technical conditions which are applicable, and also the Technic Code of the Construction Building. And all this regulation has always been taken into account for the intervention of all the initiatives which Hosar has made in the reachivity. Moreover, in all these undertakings the whole process of access has been taken into account, both external and internal, although within the hospitals it is necessary for all services. Even in the court of government signed by EAJ and PSE, the commitment is to improve the accessability of the health system, not only this traditional access, but also the commitment to promote new access forms of access, because the new technology of information and communication will also have to be added. So I think that we all agree, we must find an integral inability to overcome physical obstacles, and to all those persons who have other kinds of disabilities, in order to provide services in the best way. I think nobody doubts, there's always a chance of improvement, and that's the way it should be. Otherwise, I don't know what we'd be doing in our daily life, but Osarism does a lot of activity to get better and it's gonna make them, and we should be classing them in two groups. On the one hand, which we know as great enterprises or great works, when we make a new infrastructure, or when an existing structure is essentially reorganized. And in all these cases the cerscript of access is deeply involved in the doing of this work. And we may say that between 2013 and 2017 years there has been almost 272 million investments in such works. Moreover, accessability has been confirmed even when technological innovations have been introduced, and such innovations are demanded of a great work. And there, too, the kernel of access has been considered. And then, of course, many small and minute initiatives develop every year and without interruption to improve and to ensure access. The elevators we all see, the toilets, the works that make the access to hospital areas, hospital tickets, hospital receptions, signals, etc., etc., etc., etc. And in all of them, I think, there's been a very important investment in the last four years, because it's supposed to be nearly $5 million investment. The legislation and regulation which regulates Irish are more recent than the centres of health and hospitals. We should say that this legislation is younger than several of our hospitals, and that it brings difficulties in those measures which it requires to accommodate certain hospitals that are built up. And most of all it requires great economic resources. And the end of all enterprises, not just what we all agree here, is to get all the citizens to any service, and even if there is to be great efforts, they are made. Therefore we must speak of the possibility of completeness, because it requires integration, which will give answer to different disabilities, and not only to remove physical laughter, but also to these persons, whose sight or hearing are reduced, we must guarantee their access. All this is the end of us all, even of our health department, of Osarism. And he's going to do a full-class exam, so he explained it on Tuesday when the Chief Darpón came in to present his accounts. And he also expressed his intention to carry out a corporate strategy. To accomplish this corporate strategy by means of a million dollars will be predicted in the budget of 2018, and many smaller enterprises will be completed, and the recommendations received in this report will be considered. Then I believe that all those who have the meaning of this corporate strategy must also be involved in this, and that they begin to be members of this subject, and the associations which represent persons who are incapable of it must also have a meaning. In the report of the interrogation, too, this was the chief recommendation, to start a strategy by a good concert, because at last it is the object of all of us to improve our service. Not only physical disability, but, as I have said before, we have to guarantee access to people who have problems with vision or hearing, and new means of access through new technology. And all tied up with this, the new buildings are there too. As I have said before, they have, in some measure, the theme of access in the quality of the service they offer. So I think that even if we didn't get to a complete agreement today, no one would doubt that the will of Osature, or the will of the group I represent, must always be carried on in the reachability. As Miss Rojo said, we'll continue to work, and see if we can't get another chance today to get that consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Going round the answers, representing Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, Mrs Berasaluze, to doubt this government's commitments to accessibility, when this government today, with a specific theme to improve accessibility in hospitals in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, has been unable to move forward and improve an issue in which there have clearly been shortcomings and shortcomings in a comprehensive report, which I believe we have all praised, the Ararteko extraordinary on this issue. Of course, we believe from the People's Group that today this Government has clearly covered its eyes and ears with a major problem. You, Mrs Berasaluze, as spokesman and representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, will have to explain to me, or you will have to explain to the whole of Basque citizenship, why Mr Urkullu's government, which stands in the people's government, on an absolutely sensitive issue, where there are shortcomings, where there are deficiencies, where above two days ago the Councillor promised to move forward (with a million euros in the budgets, which is insufficient), why you today refuse to sign an agreement and to sign an agreement. I hope that you will abstain from this agreement, because, if not, it is for the whole Basque Nationalist Group when it comes out of this plenary, and the Government, to become more than red, because of course there is no credibility or political coherence in a government that is talking to us every day about people, about its problems, about the fact that this government's axis of action is people, and on an issue where unanimous agreement has been possible in this Parliament, on a specific issue, there is a refusal to sign an agreement. Tell me where the problem is, when you yourself have talked about strategy. We have also added the term "body strategy..., integral corporate" (no, it is not very graceful, Mrs Arregi, the subject, especially the inconsistencies of the Basque Nationalist Party once again on this subject). We're talking about a much longer period than the initiative initially picked up: we're talking about the first session of 2018 (i.e., we're going to June!) for this government to develop a strategy. The other day – and the counselor is here – he was talking about a strategy. Mr. Counsellor, where is the problem for you to draw up that comprehensive corporate strategy, which we give you until June in this House? The initial deadline was at this session; I believe that generosity has been more than obvious. We are talking about the incorporation of the measures resulting from the working groups of the integrated health organizations into this strategy, at the request of what you pointed out to us. We've incorporated him! I don't know where the problem is. Well, it seems that the problem was in the diagnosis, in which the government prepares a diagnosis to carry out a strategy, when it is already starting from a diagnosis that has been made by Ararteko in his extraordinary report. Therefore, we do not understand where the problem is. The problem in the budget allocation, when you have already allocated or budgeted EUR 1 million in this budget and want to move forward on this issue? We simply ask you to plan in that strategy a timetable of actions, with the corresponding budgetary allocation, so that this issue does not stand in flower of a day, and simply to look good, and knowing that there was an Ararteko report on the table and an initiative of the People's Party, you have put us a million euros in the budgets that we will see if you run, and then this does not have a continuity in the rest of the legislature. So, we don't know where the problem is. In short, we regret that you do not sign this agreement. I say that we hope that they will at least abstain, and that they will eventually be adopted, because we also believe that it is an agreement that allows us to move forward on an extremely sensitive matter, where there are shortcomings. And shortcomings and shortcomings not because the People's Party says so. I have not taken the report this time, but the report is a comprehensive report, and it is from an institution that I believe has a recognition on the part of Basque citizens and all the representatives we are in this House today. A report that we have praised, a report that we cannot leave as if it had not been made, as if it were not worth anything. In short, let us hope, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party specifically, that you will withdraw, and that you, if you are the people's government, as Mr Urkullu says, will make it possible for an agreement to make progress in terms of accessibility and in this specific area of accessibility to hospital infrastructures. Of course, if they do not subscribe to it, this Government's commitment to the people will be very much in doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u46	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr. Uria... he must not take the word. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u47	Thanks again. I am curious to know what the Basque Nationalist Party is going to vote on this compromise amendment. I am curious whether you are going to vote against an amendment that you agreed with an hour ago (amendment agreed and ready to register, Mrs Berasaluze). Yesterday and this morning we've had a large, middle-class deal on the table, which we all agreed on, because the subject is worth it. That's how we've been doing, cut this out, put this on, fix this. We agreed, but you went back. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Beragon, but what you did was just to tease him and make me dizzy. I'm sorry, but we think that's the feeling we have. I don't know, something I must have lost, because in the speech you talk about certain issues that then don't translate anywhere. In your speech you talked about a corporate strategy, you talked about participation... but where do you put that? Where? Because if you do not support this compromise amendment, it certainly does not appear in your amendment. It does not appear in your amendment. So they don't pick up any commitments in writing. Here you can say many things, but firm. Firm, or support, right? And in addition, this amendment that you have stayed with is very short. They don't want a prior diagnosis. They do not want to make OSI planning by OSI, knowing that each of them has its own and specific needs. There are hospitals that are relatively new, and there are hospitals that are many years old. Each OSI will have its needs, and that is why this specific planning is so important. They don't want to schedule... They want to specify little. They do not want to earmark budget items on the basis of that schedule... Where is everything you've talked about here, that nowhere appears reflected? They are fleeing from the collaboration of the social actors working in the field of functional diversity, and for us that is irrevocable, Mrs Berasaluze, because we have heard from your mouth that with the presence of a sign language interpreter in a hospital the problems of deaf people end. That is to know very little about the reality, or the needs of them and them. That's knowing very little, you have to listen to them. Allowing concepts such as prostheses or invalid vehicles to appear in budgets year after year – as I know you are going to correct it, counselor – but allowing these concepts to appear year after year also shows that they have much to listen to these collectives. Small details are as important as big ones, and that says a lot about where you are from. The only thing the Basque Nationalist Party wants in this case is to go easy, to a shallow proposal, based on a face wash, to put a million euros in one department and we don't know how much in the other, not to move from there, and do four or five works in some hospital. They have at their disposal a compromise amendment that can be assumed, implemented, urgent and agreed until an hour ago. They have it in their hands. We have the option and the possibility of adopting it unanimously, because, I repeat, we believe that the issue deserves it. They have that option. Or you can vote against something that you had also agreed to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo... he must not speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u49	Well, Mrs. Garrido, approach to an agreement of course we had, but we also had an approach to an agreement you and I, not this morning, last night. Perhaps you have to explain, even in your group, why in the end you have not agreed with me but with other groups. That's for starters. In a negotiation there are always at least two parties, eh! You're the proposer, you're the one who has to look for the deal, not me. And also, why did you present this GNP, if you are absolutely in agreement with everything Mr Darpón came to say in the committee the other day? The strategy you propose is going to be done. The budget allocation you are asking for, too, is there. And now you will have the opportunity, in addition, to present all the proposals and amendments that you consider appropriate, in favour of the accessibility that you are talking about, in the debate on the 2018 budget. Man, I'm not gonna admit anyone to treating me here either... And I also, Mrs Blanco, did not under any circumstances say what you said about interpreters, signs and so on. I didn't say it was enough. I just said that this service exists, and that since the association of the people concerned it was positively valued, which does not mean that it does not have to be improved. But don't put words or things in my mouth that I haven't said. And, well, to be clear, we are not going to abstain and we are not going to support your amendments, because I really believe that another agreement could have been reached. If you want to commit this government and this Department of Health to accessibility, which I believe has a lot of commitment and will continue to acquire, you could have come to an agreement with me and Mrs Red, and you would have managed to get your GNP out of the way, which I believe today you had quite a desire for leadership and little desire to reach an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. We're going to end the discussion and vote for the Basque Populars, the half-correction signed together by the Podemos and the EH Blidus. We can vote... [[Pause]] Yeah? Have you got the card? [[Berber]] You didn't turn the light on, did you? All right, all right. I'll add your vote. I'll vote for you guys. It's stopped. Wait. Now. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u51	[[Berber]] ...for, that's 35 plus two, on the side. No, I said 35, right? There's a trap. We'll vote again. Please, your tickets are fine. You've voted well before. Then we'll try to vote again. We can vote. He's not sick. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u52	So, because it's a trap, we'll leave it for another time. Forth point of theme list: "Provide the other bill as the parliamentary team has made, to ask for a strategic plan in EIB 2017-20. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Urzuno, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The technology transformation has caused reposition of media tasks, and we're in that phase as well as the production of information. The creation of the printing in its own time, like radio or TV, caused by the Internet today. It is a revolution, a profound change that has taken place in a short time, which has entirely changed the communication of the great multitudes. We find ourselves unable to place ourselves in this complex context, because we do not know the final result, and we do not know why all this will end. We're Basque between fog and fog, unable to find our way. EIB is going down, and the complexity of the situation has caused much, but even the lack of management, want of leadership and want of strong bets. Therefore it is necessary to act with all means, and therefore it is necessary to set up a strategic plan, and not to make a strategic plan, in its view, a solution or guarantee of the whole problem. In May 2013, Madame Iturbe, headmaster of EIB, came to explain the whereabouts of the strategic plan for the 2013-2016 period. He put several questions on the table and then remarked that if one of the profitable and well-made strategic plans is needed, it is necessary to put questions which were suitable on the table. He put several questions, I won't repeat them all, but I'd like to make a note of one, which is the most important thing in our opinion. And he said: "What is the duty of EITB's public service? "I don't know. This was where the principal director would place the matter, so that the answers might produce an strategic plan which was properly directed in the right direction. We think it's a right question, and he even answered some questions, and insisted: "The strategic plan must set up a course, there must be some strategic lines. We have to prepare projects to guide the strategic lines, and if there's no project, we'd be out of the way." That's what Mrs. Iturbe said. And what about our question at the moment is that, is there any way? Is there a project? And don't let anyone understand these questions as a question to hurt them. Our question is honest. Our question is honest. It's a matter of size that has to be supported with size size size and we think we all have to do this job. We don't know where we're going. We don't know if we have any plans. We don't have any strategic plans, at least at this moment. Therefore, although we have registered it for about a year now, and may be somewhere outside or in time, we think the demands, the basic demands, and the fundamental demands, have all the vigence, and therefore we have brought this as well as now. And we realize that a strategic plan has nothing to do with it, we realize that it is the size of the complexity of the problem, but at the same time we believe that one of the strategic plans is at least one of the compass of any company for its course. We also find that there is also a good time, because it seems to be a power to reflect on the future example of EIB, that the original difficulties may be put into motion, and that we are in time to answer what the other law requires. Hence we mention also to the excellence of the ETB, at the second point of our middle course, because we believe that what the direction does and what this ponciency does must go in the same direction and in time to the same. Following the scene of the director I have mentioned, we believe that he showed important keys. The Director mentioned two keys to evaluate the public service: he mentioned the audience, and, on the other hand, the estimate or opinion of society about EIB. I shall follow these two main axiss in my discussion of this day. The auditions are objective. There is no occasion for second readings, though we admit that measurements are not made under the most appropriate conditions. But on these conditions, even those who have done the same, our audience exercises a low tendency. If we start on the year 2005, the ETV TV audience was located around 24 percent. 10 years later, at 11.8%. Of course, these ten years have not been of any kind in regard to the development of hearing and technology, and in order to put things in place, we admit that the comparison is not the best possible, because there was a pattern in the visible world in 2005, and now there is another pattern. When we say the complexity of the problem, we are principally referring to it. In those 10 years the transition from analogical patterns has been enormous, because during those years the development of the Internet has been a very terrible one, the multiplication of the digital television and its effects, the increase of competition, the techniques, the tablets, the habits of communications, even of more than the phones, has changed the importance of normal consumption. It must also be mentioned that the circle of political resolutions which are adopted to preponderate Mediaset and Atresmedia, is to regulate the observations which he remains subject to the Spanish government. It is also to be mentioned with the rights of sports, the rights of football, the creation of new platforms, HBO, Netflix... We believe that all this has led us to the complete transformation of the situation or the paradigm. All this and more has happened during those ten years, so we don't want to attribute it to the management of the EIB, which EITB lives at the moment. On the other hand, we believe that those factors I have mentioned are often used to avoid responsibilities when they mention the collapse of EIB. In fact, a few years have passed since the digital dusk and audiences are falling down. In 2010, audiences descend into the centre and have retained this tendency for the last two or three years. As I said, at 11,815%, 2016, we'll see how the year is done. These data belongs to television as a whole. If we were to look through channels, they are even more striking, more impressive, and we believe that they are data that collides with the resurrection of the EuIB principle. I mean, ETB1 data really bothers you. The news has been the ones who have been most opposed to this situation, but recently they have shown disturbing facts. In 2017, this year, television news has lost leadership for the purpose of telecinco. On the other hand, in October, in the preceding month, with the question of Catalonia, or, besides recovering, or recovering the leadership, they have placed themselves openly above the Telecinco, drawing the space from the 70,000 spectators to the Telecinco. With these sums the television news or televisor would arrive at the rate of 2015. But here also, and this also must be remarked, if we examine ETB1 and ETB2, we shall see that this is the chief answer to the prejudice of ETB2 at ETB1. That's about the auditions. It is more difficult to measure the rate or opinion of society with regard to EIB, than to measure the audience because opinions are still more subjective, but it is shown in some way by public opinion. In our humble opinion, EITB is showing difficulty in preserving the affection and attachment that yearly down. The role of EITB has been crucial over the past 30 years for the development of information, Basque culture and the audiovisual sector. With a staff of close to a thousand people, today it does not meet the expectations placed in it, and with normative delay to update its place. There are several fields in which it can be improved from a deepening and updating of its public service missions: the promotion of Basque, with special emphasis on the social place of ETB1 and its presence in ETB2; greater involvement with the audiovisual sector itself, and special attention to its programming and culture. The possibility of working with creative and educational groups to generate new types of content would broaden their diversity. Issues that, in our view, are being kept down lately. EITB is faced with its great opportunity to adapt missions and structure to the digital age, to place digitization more as an opportunity than as a risk, and to set up itself as an integral communication group. We ask for an strategic plan within these shafts, and we believe that its archagraph must have an additional share in the work which is taking them along the parallel path. That's why we think all the teams have been aware of this need. There's a middle-class group here. We believe it's an initiative that can protect everyone. It is, therefore, from this perspective, and we expect from now on to pass through the words ETB to come. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u55	Egun on, legebiltzarburu andrea. Egun where you're going. I will be brief but direct on the proposal before us today and our contribution to it. The first thing to say is that it seems good to us, that it seems necessary to us, and it is an obligation for the EITB management to evaluate its strategic plan 2013-2016. We are surprised that we have to come to this House to ask for it and that it has not already done so. Secondly, I would like to say that we have serious doubts that this strategic plan has served to meet the fundamental objective of EITB, which is nothing other than the fulfilment of the public service function. A public service function set out in the institution's creation law, which we have proposed to amend since we entered this House. It is now waiting for the work of the presentation to continue and for the commitment made here to be fulfilled. On ours, let us have no doubt: we will work to the end so that this goes forward. We have already said this on other occasions and with regard to other initiatives; today we continue to say that, in our view, EITB is not adequately fulfilling its public service mission, and therefore does not comply with what is provided for by the law establishing the entity or the contract-programme. I am not going to go into the details, which we have done many times in this House, and I do not want to bore you. Some are very happy with the current model. Despite what I'm telling you, we don't. Returning to the strategic plan before us, it must be said that, as we understand in Elkarrekin Podemos, it only confirms the failure of the management of the current management, headed by its director general. We also told her when she was kind enough to appear on the EITB Control Commission. A failure that, it is logical to suppose, for some and some does not cease to be a business success. I will say a little more in this regard. All of us here know what we're talking about. In the GNP that we are going to adopt today, in addition to the evaluation of the last strategic plan, which would be very good if it were carried out with a gender perspective, we ask the management to draw up a new plan for the period 2019-2030. We hope that this, once and for all, will work, for example, on the cross-cutting objective of having an inclusive public television, working to eradicate male over-representation in all spaces, and this is also an example of participatory, inclusive, equal and equal public television. We are once again surprised at the fact that a new plan needs to be drawn up and that it is not one of the management's obligations to submit it. Probably because we do not share the governance model, in which we propose for EITB that the management have a project that is continuously evaluated, based on objective indicators and defined objectives. That is why we have wanted to add that this strategic plan that is now being requested includes the approach of the comprehensive reform of the entity that we have been addressing since the presentation. We therefore welcome the fact that there is a strategic plan as soon as possible, as we have already mentioned, that is in relation to the work and guidelines of the presentation. We would not understand that EITB's management continues to work in a framework outside of the entity's reform, nor that it is to be said that until such a reform does not come about it will make any change. It is obvious that, although we do not like it, it is this direction that has to lay the foundations for the change of the EITB model, and that it has to do so from now on, because it is very late, because it is getting worse, and we do not know very well whether they are even able to carry it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u56	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is true that the initiative was old, it is true that after this initiative the creation of the paper for this comprehensive reform of EITB has been agreed in this House, because, as the proponent has said, the technological revolution and the new television models require a revision of the model of ETB. We probably don't share the vision, but I think we do share the goal that ETB has to be a public television, the television of all Basques and all Basques. And there are issues that need to be addressed in that strategic plan that cannot wait until the end of that presentation. And there are issues – and I want to make it clear here – that should be of concern not only to the groups present in this House: they should be of great concern to the Basque Government. Because we do not share, and we do not understand above all the position of the Basque Government, and in particular the language policy adviser, who expressed yesterday in the budget debate, when, on a proposal from some groups, he said that he did not have to say anything about how EITB worked. But I have said this here: the Basque Government of course has a lot to say about EITB, because it brings a lot of money to EITB through the contract-programme! In fact, out of the EITB budget of a total of EUR 136,812,502 million for this 2018, EUR 123,493,852 (i.e. 90.2% of the budget) is provided by the Basque Government. And it provides them because it has a program-contract signed with EITB, which obliges EITB to fulfil a number of obligations that we do not see EITB fulfilling. It does not meet, in our opinion, and it has been said here too, the basic principles, the principles that inspired EITB at the time: the promotion of our language (for this reason it should be given greater importance and much concern to the hearings that ETB1 has). We have talked here about the model, but I think that above the model is the philosophy that must inspire that model. And that philosophy must be based on the fact that we are talking not about a private television, but about a public television, a television paid for with the money of all Basques and Basques, and that it should respect the plurality of a society like ours. But that is not the case at all; there is no respect for the plurality and diversity of thought that coexists in our society and that is represented in this very Parliament. ETB is currently the reflection of a very determined political strategy, that of nationalism, but in no way is it the reflection of the plurality of our society, when that should be its main obligation. It should be our TV, the TV here, the one that broadcasts the information here, the one that reflects the culture here, the sport here. It should differ from the rest of the television channels because it is the closest to Basques and Basques. I have said this on many occasions: it should be a thematic television, understanding by theme and by its theme what matters in Euskadi. It should compete, in any case, not with mainstream television, with private mainstream television, which is what it is doing at the moment, but with local television, understanding the whole of Euskadi locally. But he doesn't. As I say, it competes with the privates, and that's why we have the hearings we have. With socialist governments EITB was around (ETB2) 13%, and there were media that appeared criticizing these hearings tomorrow, evening and evening. Today ETB is around 9%, although there have been moments of 7% (for example, on Wednesday 1 November its audience was 7.2%). And in ETB1 – as Mr Urruzuno said – it goes from 1% to barely, when it should be the jewel of EITB, and at the moment it is the ugly duck of EITB. For example, Tuesday was 1.3, and at the moment it is true that there are larger audiences. The other day, reading in twitter for example Vertele's tweet, he wondered if the Catalan process was the best reality on television today. And another twitter account, La Mamba Negra, said that of course for EITB yes, because it did not get audiences like those of the Catalan process since "The Conqueror of the End of the World". And we have often been told from the public body that hearings are not the most important, that there are programs that have to be broadcast because of the public service character of the entity. And we can agree not to focus all the importance on the hearings, but that is why it is paradoxical that precisely the ratings were one of the arguments made on the board of directors by the director, when on the part of this group we ask him about the treatment that the Catalan process has had quantitatively and qualitatively. Quantitatively it has been a misconception, there have been nine- and ten-hour days of information on the same subject, and qualitatively it has also left much to be desired. A romantic image has been given, an idyllic image; it has been indoctrined by selling the goodness of the Catalan process; the images of those who were in favour of the independence process have been profusely shown, and the images of those who want Catalonia to remain Spain and Europe have been obscured, as I said here. But it doesn't just happen on this subject. ETB does not report in an objective and professional way, it does not have current contents that allow the citizen to create his own opinion. Each information, each current program, makes it clear that ETB uses information to indoctrinate, to direct the opinion of Basques and Basques towards nationalist positions. And this manipulation is perfectly evident in the very choice of news and its treatment. The political content weighs above all others, and it is clear that it can be seen in the four hours per day devoted to politics, in the face, for example, of the thirty [[sic]] who do sports. There is no room for either culture or sport or entertainment. It is the political content that allows directly and effectively to carry out its political objectives, and therefore it is the ones that are at the head of the ETB officials when it comes to programming. This is why it is political programming, with clear and well-defined objectives: to serve nationalism and to damage the position of non-nationalists. And I was saying that the Basque Government has a lot to say. I wonder whether the Basque Government will consider whether or not ETB fulfils the obligation of this programme contract. And perhaps the answer is given by the fact that I believe that the Basque Government believes that it does. He understands that he fulfils his obligation to be in the service of the Government. Because ETB is also a political instrument at the service of the government today. Its main objective is to make the political strategy of governing nationalism a speaker, and to reinforce the messages that go in that direction only and exclusively. And the political filter works perfectly: what rules in favor of nationalism goes up to the category of news; what does not, always stays in the back room, and thus offer a biased and interested current. This practice of controlling and manipulating information is more than settled on Basque public television. Everyone sees the interests they serve, and that's why they take more and more off our television. It always launches the political message, which is appropriate and of interest to nationalism. It is something, as I say, notorious and evident in programming, and something that citizens see. Many citizens already see clearly that ETB is the television of the Basque Nationalist Party. That is why we believe – and we will support, although we have not signed it, this initiative – that a change in ETB is necessary. A strategic plan is needed to know which way to go, to know which project to adopt; but above all, a change that professionalizes ETB is also needed. There is a need for a change that involves support for the professionals, and not, as was said here, support for the producers, always the same and always of the same court. A change that involves a professionalization of public television, which should be directed towards different objectives and with a different mentality. A change that rewards professional training and not political friendship. A change that gives entry to professional criteria on the board of directors, that gives entry to the Official College of Journalists, to audiovisual clusters. A public television capable of presenting a program that reflects the sociological variety of Basques, the variety of the tastes of Basques and the theme that the Basques care about, and that is able to offer answers beyond nationalism. A public television, in short, on which all the Basques and all the Basques can be represented. At the moment ETB does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u58	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We will start by highlighting these great professionals, and I want to start by remembering Ana Irazabal, who has been awarded with one of the awards of Basque journalism 2017, in addition to her great work in conflict zones, which is one of the best presentation teachings, and should be here in Euskadi and out of here. Besides, she's a woman, Mrs. Arana. That is, good and quality professionals exist in EITB. It is one of the objectives of the reform paper, that career that must give its place to the people working in that entity. And he's done well, too. That's why, along with the other winners (but she's from EITB), I wanted to congratulate her. We are discussing many issues outside the strategic plan, because we all know that the strategic plan is a project for the management of the entity and it sets out a number of objectives, and on those objectives and the evaluation of the previous strategic plan, as there may indeed be their assessments. But we start from the fact that there are other issues, other objectives that need to be assessed, which is what we think is relevant before the changes are put forward. And that is what was in the amendment that we tabled (it has been quite a while since it was tabled) and that we have now agreed on all the groups. That, although it seems that we have not reached an agreement unanimously, we have reached an agreement unanimously on those objectives, and above all on the need – and I would like to stress this – to make an assessment of the actual achievement of those objectives in the strategic plan. That being said, the Socialist Group believes that, assuming the need for comprehensive reform, in which we are already working, we are in an interim period of leadership. We believe that it is the current leadership, as is the current board of directors, because, as we have already said, one of the things we want to change is the way to choose one another. Then, in that sense, I emphasize it. This does not mean, much less, that the control function of this Parliament is annulled, nor does it mean that the current leadership is not obliged to be accountable to the Council and to this House for the achievement of its objectives, or to explain or not explain how it achieves it, and that the groups or advisors question it. That is why we Socialists and Socialists, who are committed to the constant evaluation of public policies, would like to see the director present to explain the development and implementation of this strategic plan, of course. And that in this extension period until the model changed, he made the adjustments he had to make to the plan, and also proposed or intervened on the work of the presentation. Because it is very interesting for the EITB director to know that this work is being carried out, the framework and methodology in which it is being carried out, and the changes that may come from that work being done. A measure of accountability, I insist, and I repeat it again, in a period of provisionality. That my group is worried about EITB should not surprise anyone. I think we are one of those who presented two years ago a model, wrong or not, with the variations or contributions that you want to make from other groups, but we have our model, which we are going to try to propose, to contrast with experts and the rest of the groups, and, finally, to draw up some question also after the work of the presentation. But we are the only group that in the general policy debate, through the secretary general of my party, Idoia Mendia, proposed and put on the table, as one of the main objectives for us in this legislature, the comprehensive reform of EITB. We don't... There are people who said, "Do you like it? Don't you like it?". No, I don't feel comfortable, because I have an alternative proposal, with a model for our television. I insist that it cannot be that of the Socialist Party, because it must be agreed with all of us. That is why I say to you, Mrs Arana, that we too are very attentive to the presentation. We are a little concerned, because we slowed down at the beginning, but we are committed, and you know that we are committed to ensuring that this reform tries to meet the deadlines and that we have agreed among all. I think we are making good progress, because important steps have been taken, including in the methodology, so I hope that the debate on the measures to reform the applicable legislation will be interesting, but I see it getting closer and closer. Now it's about whether we're able to deal with it. Therefore, it is a commitment that we have with the voters who voted for us, because we have always stressed that it was one of our objectives; it is an express commitment included in the government agreement also, the comprehensive reform of EITB, and we have put ourselves to the task, gathering the opinions of various experts, listening to the other groups, even in the bodies of Parliament and outside them, to know how to deal with it and do it with the maximum consensus. Because, I insist, the objective of Basque public radio and television must be that of everyone, the dignity and recognition of all Basques, as a public service. That is the objective of this Parliament and the people to whom the groups have entrusted us with the work to do so. And in that we will surely have to leave many hairs in the catera, which is said, in the agreements, but that is what it is about. It is not a question of imposing, but of listening, more when it is an issue of interest to all Basque citizens, and it is not a question of either party or ideological. So important is that this public service serves those who are sitting and sitting here as well as the citizenry who listens to us. The greater recognition, at least greater prestige for that citizenship, that I believe we all want it better informed and better trained. The Socialist Party, I insist, for two years now is ready to work, and in the strategic plan it seems to us that we have reached a good agreement, we can evaluate and also we can gather from the leadership even, through this proposal, the information regarding the presentation, but that we do not forget the trees and the forest: the comprehensive reform of EITB will change many of the things of the strategic plans, and many of us know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u61	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature, all good days. We've got an strategic plan here today, and we'll take it unanimously. So he's happy and I'm glad, because when we put something concrete on the table, we can do things together. But there seems to be another discussion here. I'll go back as soon as we discussed the situation, then I started talking. And I believe that some things have been done well at that time, and that some groups have spoken of it here, and that is one of the 1982 law. I think we should put the 1982 law into value, because the law of 1982 has brought us here, and I think we all acknowledge that this path has not been easy, but it has been productive, on the other hand. So we have to put that in value. And on the other hand, it is important to proclaim the example of public service. I think that we are in the presence of a public service, where we have a public service, and therefore must be founded on it, and that we must all defend ourselves above our disputes. We have a design to make, because we all have here decided that we would form a power of all of us, and that this power would be set to work. And I think that we have tools and that architecture which I say we have. We have a law, we may have to change it, or we don't have to change it, or we have to adapt it, we'll see, but we have a basis for the moment. We have a committee in this parliament. In this parliament there is a matter of controlling a board of TVs or rehearsals, as we have the Administration Council and this legislature has something to do with the Administration Council. And we've made it, we've completed a form. So I think we want tools, and I'd see the discussion we've got here today, if we were to do it at the same time, or at least at the EIB Control Committee. But how many things have been said, I'd like to bring here the committee on the 15th of May, that the Director had come to the control committee, Love Iturbe himself, and he continued the contracting program and made a rating of 2016 and drew some consequences. The accounts in 2016 were evaluated in 2017, as it is in the contract itself, and it produced a series of consequences. EITV has fulfilled the commitment to extend the public corps of communications directed to the majority of audiences. For he offers for all the inhabitants multimedia content, both in eucalyptus and youth. In EIB's offer four TV channels, there are five radio channels and anitb.eus website. There's also Canal Vasco, directed to the international public. Two, one effect: EIB prepares every offering, with all kinds of genera or contents, to satisfy the needs of information, education, and entertainment. Another conclusion: EIB's offer of information on TV, on the radio, and on the Internet. And thanks to the performances and opinions which make up this offer, EIB keeps the leadership and remains a reference to the community of euscal. He also mentioned that the budget had been adjusted, and that was the most important cause of EIB in the visible department of Esscal. And then all this was based on some numbers and they said 95% of the contractor. Well, we can discuss whether those trackers are okay or not, but the tools we have right on the table say that. perception, perception, we all have our perception, we all have our ideas how we should be and how we would like them to be things, but I think that we have the power to do so, and we have to work and do a lot of work, and that's why I invite all our teammates to move on. Hori program-kontatuari dagokionez, batha baita plan strategikoa ere. Zeren gaur hemen daukaguna of the plan strategikoa eta plan strategikoan bear wrong jarri gara teens, eskerrak, eta pozten naiz, bear wrong jarri gara teens. Adostasunera heldu gara, éta bagita plane strategikoa ére ekarriko nuke nik hona, aurrekoa, bukatuta daukagun plane strategikoa. The strategic plan, which is completed and which we will unanimously call for today to be evaluated, before the end of the year in addition. It's November, today, nine, in a month and a half, we're asking you to bring us in. I am sure that the management of the entity has followed up on that strategic plan from 2013 to 2016, so I hope that it will meet that requirement that we make from here, to present the assessment. But, going to the introduction of that strategic plan, which we will see in less than a month and a half, said the same strategic plan that was approved in the board of directors, in which it also has a lot to do with this House, said that it sets out the road map for the period 2013-2016, which is an open plan, which has participated in the strategic reflection of more than two hundred professionals, between ETB professionals and external professionals, who represent the stakeholders of Basque society, and who also want to rethink the future and want to build it, and the management team and the team of EITB professionals need to be agents of that change, need to be within the necessary changes. Because it is obvious and I believe that we all recognize that we have to work to position our public body and our public audiovisual service in the face of the challenges of the future; that they are difficult not only for EITB, but for all the media, the public media, as we have seen in the presentation, in the appearances we have had. But they also state in the strategic plan itself that EITB has been a key reference in the Euskal Herria package, and that it has important social support. I share with Mr Urruzuno that it is not easy to measure social support; that is why we were also defending that we had to use the means we have at our disposal, as the Sociometer can be, to measure it, because in order to change things we have to measure them, to evaluate them. And for that we have made the presentation, and I hope that we will take firm steps towards that new ETB that we all want. The points on which we are involved in the presentation for the comprehensive reform of ETB are..., the challenges are impressive: We need to talk about values, public service, governance, democratic culture, media literacy, innovation, cultural content..., in short, I think we have a lot of work to do. I also know we're getting started on that paper... The president is working (thanks for the work) on the preparation of the previous documents that had been requested since the presentation itself, in order to have that space open to work, but we cannot expect results from one day to another either, it is true; we have to go along. And I think we have to respect both plans. We have two plans: one is that of the comprehensive reform of the entity, of the public radio-television, of our public service, and the other is the work of EITB every day. EITB lifts the blind every day, it has to put in the air I don't know how many hours, I don't know how many minutes of broadcast. I think we have to recognize the effort made by all the professionals and professionals of the entity, and that day-to-day work must also be accompanied... Our jobs must be accompanied, and they must let the professionals and professionals they are doing work. Long-term strategic work, challenges are important, medium- and long-term challenges are important; but day-to-day work must also be covered and those who carry it out must be left to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Passing to response shift... Isn't he supposed to talk? Anyone else? The plums, too. Romero? Word... ? No? Yes, Llanos? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u63	Very briefly. We must let work, of course, and it is true that we have that paper in which all the groups..., in which I hope that this group will be heard more than what the counselor has heard from me in this session today, but one thing does not take away the other. Obviously, the strategic plan is also needed, and it is necessary to make a number of assessments that I believe are urgent. You said, Mrs Oregi, that it was a reference. I believe that the EITB management should analyse very much whether ETB1, which, as I said earlier, should be the jewel of our television, if it has maximum recognition, having a 1% audience, in a society that lives more and more in Basque. I think it is really to put it to you and not to wait for the outcome of the presentation, but to take action on that strategic plan from now on. Nothing more. And reiterate that we will support the compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u65	It's all right, yeah. Thank you. Yes, Mrs Llanos, I do not deny that we have to work day by day, that is why I said it and that is why I made it clear, but also, in the very memory of the strategic plan (for going to the topic we had today, which is the strategic plan), the strategic plan talked about that the strategic plan and the contract-programme must be accompanied. Both the public service principles and the sustainability indicators that are set must be quantified and supported financially and accompanied. To this I would add that he must also accompany himself with the presentation. That's what I meant. In any case, that is why we have requested the evaluation of the strategic plan, and we will see it before the end of the year. We also ask for strategic lines, at the second point of the transaction we have asked for strategic lines for the coming years and for the next strategic plan, which has to face very important challenges and which already has to incorporate what is coming, and what is coming from the presentation too (I think we have to work together), and that necessary collaboration. I would therefore like to thank all the speakers once again for having reached this agreement, and to encourage all of us to work very hard on the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Now that we've finished arguing, we're going to vote EH, Euskal Socialists, together with the middle-point that Podemos and Eubertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-09.u67	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
