ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Sit down in your seats, please. Before we begin, I must state that the third point is left for another. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Konörr Euspilla Group to plan for the prevention of the child's society. Discipline and final resolution. The number on which the proposal has been made: Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, congressmen. Today we've brought a subject of importance to this entire meeting. And it is to be mentioned on the Medical Plan that the importance of prevention and health promotion becomes clear, and so it is expressed in the Medical Plan. The Health Plan, which has been in force for 2013-2020, highlights the importance of health prevention and promotion, and in this regard notes that healthy lifestyles and habits are encouraged in relation to food, physical exercise, tobacco and alcohol. In the compact of the government, it appears that we plan to prevent the health of nutritious nourishment and child-bevial disobedience. It was clear from the fact that, according to the interpenetration of the government and the chairman of the department, it was the intention of this government to make the strategy of the nourishment and then to plan to prevent health. Now, what we want with this motion is dated. And it looks like we've got a date and a date set. Yes, on the one hand, we've also given a date to the plan of strategy strategy strategy and obese prevention on this strategy. The chief physician mentioned that it was his goal first to lead the strategy, and then, when the strategy was made, because he understood this, to encourage the plan and also to make the plan. The development of a healthy eating strategy and the development of a plan for the prevention of childhood obesity are two of the intentions of this Government, as reflected in the government plan, and, on the other hand, the Health Adviser expressed this in the question he made the other day in his response to the question made by this group. However, we understood that it was necessary to set a date for those intentions, for those commitments, because those forecasts were already included in the Health Plan approved in 2013. It is true that it is seven years old, but we considered it opportune, especially with data on the table that obviously point out that in this community the data is better than elsewhere, but the figures for nothing call for optimism, and it is necessary to undertake and promote action from different areas. As I said, the Health Plan itself talks about the design and implementation of a healthy eating strategy that takes into account gender inequalities, and that this healthy eating strategy must be developed in a coordinated manner with other institutions. Obesity age gehiegizko pesua arazo larriak dira gure osasun publikoan. Esan dezakegu orange sanitary bath gehiago, soziala orange of her, and ikuspegi integral battik aztertu behar of her. Therefore, as is clear from the Health Plan and the numerous studies that have been carried out on this issue, both obesity and overweight are a public health problem, it is more than a health problem, and therefore needs to be addressed from different areas. It is related to the cultural level, economic resources, living conditions, family environment and place in which one lives. As I say, it needs to be addressed from a cross-sectional perspective, and the most visible causes of obesity are poor eating, sedentaryness... that are, as I said, reflected in obesity. On the other hand, obesity is linked to the emergence of multiple diseases, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases, and some types of cancer. Esan dezakegu alde horretatik obesityk gaixotasun asko dakartzala. And that is why we should mention the importance of prevention. Por eso hay que detacar la importancia de la prevención, y la necesidad de Destectar este probleme and passos precoces con la adquisción de wells hábitos de vida. It is therefore advisable to detect them in the children, and to repair them quickly by encouraging good habits of life, by exercise, and by encouraging wholesome nourishment. The counselor himself told us yesterday, in the presentation of the evaluation for this year, that we are also in the equator of the Health Plan, that in the year 2025 a fifth of the population will be obese. If we see also the data that are indicated, which are reflected in the Aladino study, in which children from different autonomous communities participate and the Basque Country participates, in this study, if we analyze the age range of six to nine years, it is also clear how this problem reaches important figures. And it is true that we are better than other autonomous communities (we are also in the best places, but we are better than some other autonomous communities), but it is said that 34% of children are obese or overweight, and above all there is a significant leap in children aged eight to nine years. In children aged between eight and nine years, it has increased from 28.7% to 25 and in girls from 22.9% to 28.3%. We therefore believe that this is an issue that needs to be addressed, and that is what this motion was about: to set a date and to put specific duties on the Government in relation to the development of the healthy eating strategy and, on the other hand, the childhood obesity plan. I would like to thank you for the availability, first of all, of the group supporting the Government, which has obviously also understood that it was appropriate to set these dates, although, as the Councillor pointed out, it was intended to undertake and implement these plans throughout this parliamentary term. But we also know, taking advantage of Mr Lehendakari's presence here, how also some important laws or bills that this government wanted to push through the past legislature were left unapproved, and how also some plans... This is true that it had a longer validity (the Health Plan) in time, but it seems to us opportune, since it will almost coincide the validity of the legislature with the validity also of the Health Plan, that these plans can be implemented, to the extent possible, as soon as possible also. We have therefore urged the Government to agree unanimously, and I also appreciate the willingness of the rest of the groups, who have understood that this problem should be addressed with concrete measures and concrete lines of action, and we urge the Basque Government to develop a healthy food strategy with different lines of action and concrete measures. And once... Because it seems that this was the intention of the counselor, first to elaborate the strategy of healthy food and then, once this strategy of healthy food is elaborated, throughout 2018 to elaborate the plan of childhood obesity, with measures based on information, health education, physical activity, healthy food..., especially with the intention to raise awareness of society and establish guidelines of action for its prevention. We have also incorporated another point in the amendment by EH Bildu, which was also interesting, which was to deal with this issue in an integral way, and for this it was important to work in the various areas that I also pointed out in my speech, such as health, education, the food industry and so on. Therefore, we welcome and hope that this time the Government will be diligent – which we hope will be so, lehendakari – and therefore meet the deadlines for both the development of this strategy and the plan to prevent childhood obesity. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u2	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u3	The head of the table, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today, the motion we shall treat of child-beviour is derived from an interaction made by Mrs Garrido on the 2nd of June, Councillor Darpón. I'd like to put some data on your desk. The Medical Plan of 2013-20 published the following Eukadin data: Overweight and ovity, between 4 and 18 years, as health indicator, gives the following results: Too much weight is bigger in girls, 16,6%, and in boys 15,3%. With Obsity, 12,7% of the girls and 11% of the boys. These data sources include information source from 2005's health tests. Unfortunately, those percentages from 2005 are getting up here and that means we're in front of a serious public health problem. The results of the ultimate epidemic investigation show that we have to provide a suitable solution to this subject. As we know, there are multiple risk factors for a child or adolescent to develop overweight or obesity. The first risk factor is behavior. Thus, behavioral influences often persist between generations, since children inherit both socio-economic level and behaviors, cultural norms, eating family habits and physical activity practice. We can also talk about the built environment, what the World Health Organization calls the obese environment. In other words, the willingness to buy unhealthy foods, high in saturated fats, sugars or salt, and the lack of infrastructure and opportunities to practice physical activity in the place of residence, together with the greatest tendency to sedentary lifestyle from an early age. As the world's health organization advises, governments should consider all these dangers, providing proper orientations, giving order in public health, and establishing regulations against environmental and development risks. The families, the guards, and the educators have to play an important part to promote healthy attitudes. Considering these preliminarys, all the parliamentary groups are necessary to provide a suitable solution for this matter, and to agree with each of them all. Therefore we speak of it at the first point of the half-rational correction you have before you for all this: "The U.S.P.A. wants to do it before this year's over, show him the strategy of healthy food, with a lot of work and a lot of measurements." He must, indeed, not only identify healthy foods and drinks, but also the profiles of injurious nutrients, in order to know where the matter is, and then give proper prevention. Thus, when these consumers are to choose nutrients, though they come opposite messages from different sources of information, so as not to doubt that we choose healthy foods. 'Eunk' should be very clear about the healthy products that can be encouraged without a cut.' It is plain that foods that are not healthy, and drink with sugar, are closely connected with child-names. In the fields where children and teenagers meet, there should be no advertisements about the food and sugary drinks they see in the schools as well as in the slowly, or in the programmes they see, against health. The prevention of childhood will have important economic benefits from generation to generation, though it can't yet be taken in a definite manner. Too much weight and child obese...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u5	...prevention and treatment must be taken from a multidis disciplined point of view. There, the Board of Education must offer the educational actions connected with nourishment and health, making it a healthy school environment. Trade, consumers, and Turism Department are to be co-ordinated by the Farm Department. We need to have places available to do physical activity and focus on wider cooperation. In fact, it's more and more common to exercise than to do. Sedentarism is becoming a rule of society: The games of children have completely changed with new technology. As they move less and less, fatness rises. We know that a physical exercise can reduce the risk of diabetes, Cardiobcular diseases, and cancer. Besides, he can improve the ability to learn children, including their self-satisfaction and their well-being. If you have any idea that sedimentism is an important risk factor in the origin of ovation, we should consider how to spread the exercise in our children and young. Berriro was aipatuk diskizuet datu batzuk. In the Health Plan 2013-2020 young people between fifteen and twenty-four sedentary years in free time give us these figures: boys are sedentary in free time by 25.1 %, while girls, unfortunately, by 44.1 %. The objective of this Basque government by 2020 is to limit this sedentary lifestyle to 20%. The second point of our midway correction is connected with prevention. What we're asking is that in 2018 the plan of the Eulegics to perform and represent the child's ovation, so that in information, in physical health training, with measures based on physical activity and healthy nourishment, we can always have the instructions of consciousness and premeditation. The food and drink which are sold in the schools, or in the machinery of the schools, according to the lines of healthy food, must be established by regulations. It is a paradox that children are trained up and willing to convey healthy attitudes, and that at the same time they allow the sale of inadequate drinks and foods in their school environment. What we have to do with our children is to extend and penetrate more healthy manners. It's essential that they don't have improper food and sugared drinks in their hands, and that they don't even give them in their meals. That's why we should be expelled from regional hospitals by large calories and low-valued foods, even sugared drinks. It has been fairly clear that the problem of childhood is not only a question of the health attorney, and therefore, in order to obtain efficient preventive measures, the co-operation, commerce, Commstunism, Turism, and the health department is indispensable for successful policies which are necessary. Therefore we speak of this at the third point of our intermediate correction: "That this plan for the prevention of children is necessary to reach the subject from an integral point of view, and this is indispensable to the combination of different areas, especially of health, education, first sector and food industry." Dena den, esan behar dizuet gure hasierako erdibideko proposeamenak harago joan nahi zuelela eta sentitzen dut urrutiago ez Heltzea. Berez, gure proposemenean genuine zen eskatzen, on the one hand, promote interinstitutional agreements and in collaboration with the food industry for the reduction of sugars, saturated fats and salt in prepared foods. In the third indicator of the Health Plan 2013-2020 we find the indicator "Salt content in school menus". Today it is 9.8 grams per day, and the Department of Health, as a target for 2020, wants to reduce the salt content in the menus to five grams per day. It doesn't tell us how, but let's hope that we all take the necessary steps to achieve it. In our compromise amendment we also added regular, in the area of their competence, the advertising of food, so as not to generate contradictory messages of nutritional education in children and adolescents, as well as to study the exclusion of any kind of advertising on processed and fresh foods during children's hours on television and public radios. And as a last point, our amendment added the express ban on advertising soft drinks, sugary drinks and industrial pastries in sporting, playful or festive events for children and young people. But, to finish, I must tell you, I am glad that in this legislature I have come to an agreement with all parties, and that we place our deadlines on the deadlines, because it's very important for us to put our deadlines on. But I want to point out that what we didn't approve of is in the report of the committee that the World's Medical Organization advises him to complete his child obese. Berez, honako puntuak aipatzen ditu Munduko Osasun Erakundeak: Develop rules on the promotion of complementary beverages and foods to limit the consumption by infants and young children...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u6	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u7	... of foods and beverages (bai) with high fat, sugar and salt content. It also indicates that the supply or sale of unhealthy foods, such as sugar drinks and high-calorie and low-nutrient foods, should be eliminated in school environments. I won't be long. Let's summarize it. I admit we've taken a few steps, but I've got a very salty feeling. We have not been brave, for we have lost a fine opportunity to be a pioneer, for instance, at the time of regulating the grocers' stalls, or setting boundaries for publicity. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Gather the Representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ottagon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u9	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We've got the result of the interpelation of the Euscal popular team in the prevention of the child business to discuss today. But the motion is not limited only to the fatty of the children, though at first it was so focused. The importance of carrying a healthy nutrient in our society is, because the benefits which it may have in our health are very important. In fact, the two measures proposed do not add anything new in the same way, as the chief physician in the interpelation answered, for the measures taken in the 2013-20 Medical Plan, and in the Government Union are contained. The innovations that it receives are based on the term of time. At first, before the year's over, you're asked to make a healthy food strategy that'll pick up different numbers of activity and exact sizes. The chief physician explained that in a few weeks' time this strategy is intended to be introduced, and yesterday, in the introduction of the report of the 2016 results of the Medical Plan, he repeated himself, that we shall soon be able to communicate to him in a more detailed manner. So nothing new in this. Just make sure we wait. One of the goals of the 201320 Medical Plan, which is received at 5.2, is in text: "It's the strategy of healthy evolution to design and establish for the Basque population, based on the social differences of consumption and the difference of the genus." It's time! It's been four years since we accepted the Medical Plan and, well, as you've often stated in the Medical Plan, and in many others, if we accept the extraordinary importance of our nourishment in our health, I don't know where we've been or have been, really. We'll read it carefully when you describe it. In the second place, it's fun to do it before June 2018, and present it as a plan of prevention in information, in sanitary education, in physical activity, and in healthy food, and that's what it's going to come to for. This is not a new proposition, for in the Medical Plan it comes in text: "The reduction of the ovals of children, physical exercise, and a prevention plan based on healthy nourishment." He's also involved in the government program, and, as has been said before, in the interpelation itself and in the occurrence we had yesterday, the government declared that he's planning to commit the prevention of the child's obsence and based on the strategy of healthy nourishment. Therefore, in content, there is no innovation in this proposition, but in this demand there is a specification, which, as before, is to fix a limit: June 2018, exactly a year. And we believe that it is necessary to put a deadline in the rhythm of the establishment of 2013, in the actual execution of the targets on the Plan of Health. With the corrections we introduced, we tried to add to our initial proposal: that this plan for the prevention of children is necessary to reach the subject from an integral point of view, which seems to us indispensable to the combination of different areas, especially health, education, first sector, and food industry. We think this is a very important point. The first aim in the health plan, the very essence, is that of health in all the politics, and that is the reason why it is often repeated that in the present day, with regard to the co-workership of the several different different departments of the Government, the co-workership between the different EAE institutions of the country, have the local members of the townships. But this is not enough. Of course it's necessary, but it's not enough. It is extraordinary to place them in relation to the agency of the first sector, and to contrast, and to manufacture food as well as industry. In the health world, when we talk of sensitisation and education, we have to work with a mutual effort, not only to talk about health, but to seek indirect engagements between different areas and areas. In order to obtain the indirectness of health, it is absolutely necessary that a sensitisation should be produced between different areas, and that it is as important as sensibilization to offer the means of falling into practice. In the production of quality, patience, and as much as possible, health must go by hand; in education health must be by hand; and in what manner health must proceed from the cultivation of place and country. On your hand, making strong bets. The food support backend must be the first sector to ensure healthy and digested foods. It would be the most important guarantee to optimize resources and keep the field alive. And here we see great weaknesses. We have need of the effective measures of feeding from education, especially in order to form healthy and balanced persons. We could talk about public dining-rooms: About school food, hospital kitchens. There are several examples. The government has important challenges in health matters and can't stay in speech. A small example, very illustration: In the health plan the next is received as 4,3 ends: "The reduction of the ovals of children, physical exercise, and a prevention plan based on healthy nourishment." One of the actions to which this end is directed is the following: To encourage healthy educations and habits of life in the family, in school and in the community. If this is received in this manner, why in the schools do not physical education give importance? Why have they lowered the hours given to physical education in the second cycle of education? Why isn't the Decret Institute Decret and it's going to collapse? And this is just a little example. I don't have time to refer to all the examples that occurred to me when I prepared this. I assure you, I am very glad to have reached this middle-road, and above all, in so easy a manner, that the period which we received in our first motion is somewhat flexible, and adding our correction to it. That's nice of you. This shows that we share, in some measure, diagnostics and ends, in the dun where we do not see the ways of doing so. There are options on the table that can change the system and change the way you've moved it so far. The system of these days leads us to prevent consequences, rather than to encourage prevent prevention. We therefore extend our hands in this field to make the course together. Let's row in the same direction, because we'll get there faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u10	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u11	Thank you, President. From the seat, if I may. Indeed, this is an issue on which there is unanimity, and therefore I will not go down to the rostrum to repeat the arguments that those who have preceded me in the use of the word have expressed. It is a matter of concern to the Government and of concern to it. Even in the last parliamentary term, to a question raised by Mr Maneiro, Mr Darpón replied that he was already working on that strategy, which today reflects the amendment that we have managed to achieve. We believe that this is a cross-cutting issue: it affects not only health, but also education. Even today in a media outlet, there was talk of a Unicef report that said that social exclusion, child poverty, also had one of the concerns that all Governments needed to address on the issue of obesity. It is true that Euskadi has some data, in terms of childhood obesity, better than the rest of Spain, but it is also true that it is a topic that is growing as the years progress. Therefore, we believe that the government has it within the strategic lines that Mr Darpón already raised in his first appearance, and it is one of the points that reflects the government agreement signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. That is why we see it as a priority that was already marked at the beginning of the legislature. We have no doubt that the points we have signed today in the amendment will be complied with. And, well, we want to congratulate ourselves on the agreement, and we hope that Mr Darpón and the Government will soon be able to come to Parliament to explain to us the achievements of the initiative. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u12	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. We're glad to have this deal, too, with a large consent. And we further believe that it is reflection, that we are all conscious of the problem, and that this vast agreement reflects that we must all take measures within our limits, in the presence of this evil, which may in the future or the long period become a serious problem. We think if that's what we're talking about, it's just that it's like that, that it's just a matter of precise proportions to deal with this problem. He proposed that by a strategy, in general, they should take measures to promote wholesome nourishment. And he was engaged, too, that once he had done that, a plan which he had made to prevent his child's obsequies would be necessary. I think, therefore, that in this sense all the members of the legislature have agreed on this diagnosis, and that it is a pleasure to have obtained a great deal of harmony with such a subject. So I won't be much longer. I believe, and as the Representative of the Podemos has stated, that the international institutions have proposed several considerations and several measures, and that they must also be considered, either by the experts, or by those who will participate in this plan in their work. And we have nothing against it. And further, the chief physician himself, in the reply of the interrogation, mentioned in general what the product, which has too much industry and sugar to be made, has produced in the health of a few physical exercises. In that sense we have nothing to add. Thank you all, and we're glad we agreed unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Anyone who wants to be on the answering shift? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Esquila populars, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH Collectors and the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u15	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium is accepted. Second point on the subject list: "To take up the controversy and the final resolution of considering these legal propositions at once: "The patrioticist and Basque Socialists, the bill of law made by the parlamentary groups, the founder of the Esquiria Autonomia Fertilian profession. "Punishment of the Law made by the Parliamental Group, concerning the Educational Office." So we're going to argue without reading what you've got in your papers. Side shift: Social Partyists, Eubertarian patriots and EH Collectors. So, Mr. Pastor, Congressman representing the Socialist Party, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u16	Vocational training in our society, as well as in our country, is still under-prestigated socially, less connected with the business world than it should, and still far from converging with the best education and training systems in Europe. And it is in line with this vision that we have proposed to adapt the vocational training regulations, in accordance with the law on vocational training in the Basque Country, so that our vocational training system is already open to social change and is an integral part of the education and employment system. We are convinced that progress in the process of building quality vocational training in Europe is the best response we can give to the economic crisis and, above all, to job creation. For the Basque Socialists, the development of vocational training is a strategic bet. The constant improvement of our VET system must be a priority, because vocational training is a key factor of employability, while at the same time an engine of economic development. We know that in Euskadi, as in Europe as a whole, a greater number of people with medium or high qualifications will be required in the near future, while jobs for people with low qualifications will be reduced. For us, vocational training and working in it have always been very important. For many years we have worked, and I think that rightly, in the law of vocational training, with the Department of Education being already advisor Isabel Celaá, and continued by the next Government. I believe that no year of parliamentary office has been left without this issue being dealt with in the Basque Parliament. In vocational training we have been doing well, building one after another and composing the puzzle. It is a law that has required a lot of work, a law that has been developed with the collaboration of all educational agents, with emphasis on the characteristics that we were most concerned about, such as contributing to the improvement of vocational training, preparing students in a comprehensive way and allowing them to successfully access the labour market or connect with the rest of educational levels; increasing places and profiles, so that people who wish to do so can access vocational training and certificates of professionality and improve current graduation rates; integrating training for employment and training within the educational system; recognizing skills acquired through work experience. We were in the previous legislature committed to vocational training, and we have made it, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, a central theme of our governance agreement for this legislature. In the government agreement we stipulated the adoption of this law, and we committed ourselves to do so in the first six months of government. A law which, I must say, has a large part of the content of the education programme of the Socialist Party. A law that will regulate vocational training in Euskadi in order to adapt it to the new needs demanded both by companies and by Basque society. A demand that combines the approximation of supply to the productive world. To do this, we must offer those securities that are necessary for the industry. The knowledge society requires vocational training which is configured as a genuine lifelong learning process. It has ceased to be a pre-employment stage, to become the necessary accompaniment to cope with technological changes and productivity development. I would therefore like to congratulate ourselves, because I believe that a great deal of work has been done over the years on vocational training, and when things are done well, as is the case, we must also say so. I do not want to end without saying that I also thank Euskal Herria Bildu for his proposal to amend the law, but I honestly do not understand very well what it comes to, because I understand that it is a poorly articulated, too generic law, and above all, Mrs Ubera, a lack of consensus with educational agents, as the Confederation of Ikastolas has rightly stressed. We do not understand how, having an articulated text, worked and, of course, no little consensus with educational agents, a proposal to transform the normative framework with solvency, with sufficient scope and legal rigour, present another alternative that, in our view, is meaningless. I therefore thank you for your will, your effort and your interest, and I invite you to vote on our law and make any contributions you may deem appropriate to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u18	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. To build an economy based on knowledge is to build Europe, and consequently the greatest challenge of Euskakia in sociomy. This new economic model was determined by the European Union in 2010 for a sensible, supportive, Integrator European strategy 2020. Hence the societies of European countries, including the Basque societies, have a great challenge. For, according to the predictions of 2020, it will be very large to demand and to make a very low estimate of the higher professions. In this context, for short or short period, to enhance the effectiveness of people, it will be indispensable to use a new strategy and mechanism. On the one hand, the hours provided by competition are increased, for this is the only way to achieve the high level of specialisation required by more and more complex areas. In other words, the demand for workers with preparations and competition now adapted to the state of competitive competition helps to break up the schema until now. That is to say, to leave the training model taken to work and take a new pattern that was directed to the professional area. This change of paradigm is a person who encourages and promotes to acquire and fix technical, personal, and social capacities, for these qualities will support the necessary valuation and functionality. All this makes it more and more important to be connected with the policies of education and profession and employment policies and even economic development policies. In order to answer this challenge, the occupational education required from Euskka must be flexible and have a proper connection with the peculiar characteristics of the local economy. The means to force the cooperation and private cooperation of the institutions are the means to increase. Some traditional cooperation forms must be restored and adapted to a better solution of their ends and more efficiently use their resources. Hence the constant preparation which is directed to employment exercises in certain regulations of this legal proposition. By this preparation, men will continually be able to get knowledge and preparation in order to adapt themselves to the changes of their professions, by degrees, in a continuous manner. Again, as to the field of profession, there is a particular chapter in our legal proposition: II. Chapter. Sets the built-in eupscal system of business tests. Moreover, in several chapters there are important regulations concerning the integrated orientation system of the whole life and the social community. These are the reasons for the need to develop a specific law in this field that complements the existing own legislation in the Basque Autonomous Community. It is a question of Euskadi being able to have a vocational training system that responds in an appropriate way to the current and future challenges to which he will have to face, with the aim of achieving a model that will improve the employability of people and the competitiveness of companies in highly complex environments. A law that equips Euskadi with the tools to enable it to solve the challenges posed by our productive fabric and the trends within it that point to new types of employment, which require greater preparation and specialization. To this end, Euskadi needs a flexible vocational training system, capable of adapting and fulfilling its aims in a society and an economy that is constantly changing. This proposal seeks to regulate the framework within which vocational training policies should be developed in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, because of their special significance in the economic system, in order to try to ensure that Euskadi is able to be placed in the right conditions in the new economic model which Europe aims to achieve. So it is only from the point of view of content that it is a law of scope, and, therefore, if it is determined what purposes and ends will correct the policy of the profession and what tools are to be used in the management of it, it will be possible to take measures which are right every moment, within the sphere established in the law. The present proposal for a law introduces in a new way a combined model of vocational training, in which not only the field of integrated vocational training defined in Law 1/2013 of 10 October on Long Life Learning is integrated, but also the apprenticeships in applied innovation and active entrepreneurship. Bi eremu horiek, kualitatiboki, wasaldatu behar dituzte lanbide-heziketak arlo ekonomikoan eta, batik, arlo produktiboan izango dituen ondoroak. The development of dual vocational training under alternance arrangements is a fundamental strategic objective, on the other hand. The purpose of this proposal is to establish the elements that will make possible the development and implementation of a strong and comprehensive system of dual vocational training under alternation, which includes both initial vocational training and training for employment as well as the necessary specializations demanded by the productive fabric in general and the priority sectors of knowledge in particular. If we are to create a coherent system, this first demands, first, the co-ordination of the jurisdictions, that is, the jurisdiction of the Euscal Autonomy Administration in the one area and the other in the other. And for this purpose an organ will be formed, in order to ensure the co-ordination of the functions of the education system, and of the functions of employment. With this, the management of the education of the profession, the organization, the planning, and the administrative organ has been produced, and therefore the jurisdiction of this organ will be to carry forward the direction, order, and administration of the profession, which will also be the responsibility: the design, development, organization, and general planning, of all the public policies of business, of the sciences and of the country, as well as of the training of education. The legal proposition also regulates the sphere of professional selection and of euscipation, in order to answer our commercial system by means of the general profession system. In this scope, the certificates and certificates of the programmes in the EEscan Autonomia Erescientisation will be introduced. By this proposition of the law, it is intended to constitute what was then regulated, and is expressly cited a particular activity which is intended to promote: professional specialization programs. These activities are indispensable to the confession and check, in order to acknowledge the value they have in the sphere of the established regulations. The internationalization of the Basque system of vocational training is another of the axes on which this proposal for a law is intended in a more transcendental way. This process of internationalization is based on three different types of intervention. On the one hand, exchange programmes for teachers and students. Secondly, the provision of training activities of the Basque vocational training system in other countries, of particular importance in the case of Basque companies with work centres abroad. Thirdly, what could be called the export of experience from the Basque vocational training system to other countries, through the design and implementation of their vocational training systems, bringing knowledge and experience to Euskadi. In the Esucaian Autonomia Erelica, the question of languages is a double challenge. On the one hand, the official language of Euskal Autonomy Erria will have to adapt the presence of the official professions to the system of professions, and we must solve the problems which have been observed during all these years. It must be asserted that the presence of the Basque in the professional science is normalized. Hence general regulations in the language will be applied, and it will be maintained that two official languages are well governed by those who practice their training, especially in the primitive professions. Secondly, the education of trade must oppose the challenge of extending the knowledge of foreign languages into the working world. From this Illus it is necessary that the knowledge of the Englishman should be extended in general. But in certain areas, or in certain cases, it is indispensable to learn other languages, especially in the breed of perpetual profession. The development of Professional systems must be supported in an efficient manner through a process of constant improvement. There is, in fine, two matters which are of importance to this end, that our proposition of law may produce. In the first place, this legal proposition is that it is necessary to encourage both the investigation and the investigation of the profession and the process of reforming and improving the various professional functions. On the other hand, the function of our legal proposition, which will regularly evaluate the system of vocational exercises, and is expressly referred to the activities which constitute the combined model of the professions, and also the programmes of the educational regime. Ladies and gentlemen, by this law, we seek to regulate and regulate the several eupscal systems of the profession, which ought to be answered well enough when we develop a economy based on knowledge, both on the necessities of euscal society and economy, both in that society and in that society. It's not a good challenge. Let's get to business and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u20	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, members of the legislature, all good days. You too, Mrs. Uriart, good morning. I'm sharing my interference into two parts. One, in the defense of our legal proposition, Mr. Pastor, because ours is a legal proposition and not a correction. And the second, the differences between the law of EAJ and ours. I say, "EAJ's bill of law," for it is the same law of legislation as before, that you were in opposition to the same law, and were hindered by the same law, which is now in the name of both of us, but which is clear and clear of EAJ's. To begin with the defence of our law, we have tried to build up the property and columns of the farm in the Basque Office. We've tried to determine the characteristics of the personality that will determine the pattern of that house clearly. In the first place, we have made the law-proposital in order to obtain the Basque law, with the purpose of setting up the tools of the euphora of the profession, and of setting up the front page. Not only in language, but also in character. As for the rest, if we wish to sustain the sphere of labour, because it is necessary to resist the education of the profession, because it is our purpose to produce eucalyptic students, to educate them. Unfortunately, I say it very sadly, Mrs. Uriart, from what has begun, this government is not an example. So youth, translation, you have, by way of making love to them, I want to thank them for the effort and effort they have made to the translation, to cover all the privations of this house and of the government. On the other hand, we wish to serve the public and permanent development of the business, beyond the productive system, and beyond the control of the markets. We're clear that the education of the profession must be a productive network in its object, but the work world is not only a productive network, it's also a reproductive. And we imagine the sphere of work as a form of many vertices, and wish to continue to build it: A worthy condition of labor, which, with all due respect to the conditions of labour, and will serve for the welfare of society. And that's what we define in our legal proposition. Society needs the centre, not under Confebask, because we're getting more and more seeing than you're doing here is in Confebask instead of having fun. We could put it just the same, if you're out of the Eukong, and if Confebas ever got in your house, they're in charge. We are seeing in all the politics, in the state of politics, even in education, and at the present moment they are setting their orders in the different professions, and this example is also being extended to the other schools of education. And with this view of law, we have tried to escape from that path, and have tried to establish other grounds. So we target the people and the neighbourhood, and we place the school in the centre. And back to that, we've tried to structure the entire network and organize the services and determine them in this legal proposition. To give light to the darkness of the Government's planning at the present day. Why the neighborhood work? Well, the neighbourhood, because we are intended to promote local development, and for this purpose we seek unions and unions, both in the organization and organization of the region and in the social life. So we place the educational police strategy of a whole society of professions. And for this strategy, we produce two members of the community and form them. One, the highest organ, which would be the chief organ between network and network, taking resolutions more horizontally, and in order to make decisions, and in order to define politics, in order to receive them among us all. The other, the euscal council, like the organ of counsel, the schools with the vote. Government doesn't vote for schools, we vote for them. And whenever it's necessary, the sector operators open up for the moment as well. So we vote and vote for the sector agencies in front of the government's Personality. The foundations of the law are posterior: people (success, teachers and workers). When students are concerned, we insert an active doctrine of methodology beyond the usual modules. When the professors and workers are concerned, not only in strengthening the formation, but in securing the conditions of work, we insert mechanism into the legal proposition, searching for stability, and turning back to the present state. A new base. The bearable local development which will be grafted in the national view and which will appreciate the wants of the nation. The innovation and inquiry applied, not only the inquiry applied, but the inquiry applied. And how not, creator and activity. When the law is made, and we with this law are at last only the means, we seek the following ends; to improve the quality of the education of the profession, the training of personal development and work-related preparation, and to encourage people's functions in life to increase their chances of stability and quality, to form a flexible system based on the views of challenge and projecting, and to promote positive values, social skill, communication, empathy, and so on. Besides, we enter into it also, and develop it in the midst of a whole chapter: third chapter. With the inclusive treatment of plurality, we see at the moment how difficult there are in managing multiplicity, when practice is to direct you... And we guarantee that the dukals will follow the rules of work. And if we have to make exceptions, we form contrivances for these exceptions: we must justify ourselves in the highest organ, we must demand permission, and we must ensure the criteria established by the council. We create eupcharation, which will tend to the normalization of the eucalyptics, and we apply to it the work of the house. We also complete it, and train it, apply investigation, and the service for innovation. We also receive specialization programs, and a duty to developed regulations derived from this legislative frame, in this proposition of legislation, in the government; Create the orientation service for the schools; a decree to determine the completion and procedure of the original organ; to define the system of evaluation in the year; to make the rule of the council of euscal, and specify the regulations of the dilacade. It is true that with these two legal proposals something strange has happened. The government had foreseen to bring it into its law calendar in 2018, and in the end both of them, our legal proposition, and, what the Government does not generally do, have embraced in time by its parliamentary groups. It's funny, but it's an excellent opportunity to open the doors to the consensus, if both of them were allowed. In fact, the challenge we have in our hands is not of any importance, for we have no frame of law in the professions, and has hitherto been developed by decree or by the frame of Madrid. So he's made a career, and, of course, at the time of this frame, we've tried to figure out that route together with the sectors' operators and all the operatings in the sector. And it was curious what you're talking about in dictation. We understand that the legislative frame ought not to be sought only to conform to what is now established, but above all it must look forward and then develop a purely negative frame. And it seems as if it was only to regulate what is intended by the law of the Government. And I'd like to say, in conclusion, the differences between the law of EAJ and the law of ours. It is true, there are common points, and it seems to me that if work is conducted in a serious manner and towards the future, we might be able to find harmony. But I'd like to mention some differences. Ours belong to the educational education of professions, though it gives him essential paper, logical, professional science. Where the government sets it, it's not clear. We, to define the politicalities of our professions, receive coloured frames, and we define them, including schools and giving them more bonded and more active nature. The government puts focus on departmental committees and enterprises. Ours, apart from the produce of the network, is counting on the reproductive. Considers public system services and consider them as references. Not the government. Ours is talking about a applied investigation, of the government, no. Ours is extirpated in the philosophy of local development, not of government. Our business imposes duties to guarantee the rights of workers and students, and it gives order to establish and create contrivances, either in the case or in the pursuit, not in the government. Ours, in order to penetrate into the townships, defines the means of the separation between the countries, not of the government. Ours is made of eruption, not of the government. Ours determine the duties of an euscalizing the work-world, and we create a service, not the government. I can go on for a long time. Perhaps ours will have no legal security or a legal void, but you know that these gaps in transmitation can be solved. We do not, therefore, understand what it is to give way to both laws, to give rise to the law, and to begin the business between them. So it seems to us that among all of us, we should have a chance of obtaining the best law by considering multiplicity and various views. What's to be done? Well, it'll be totally the opposite. Is that your hand to look for consent? Or is that which is at bottom the question of patterns, the difference between patterns? What's in the bottom is the Confebask order?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u22	Today we began to do something that I, the truth, as a new arrival at this institution, missed. What are we here for? Well, of course, we are to control the government, to propose, to censor, to suggest... For that kind of thing. But basically we are for one thing, which is to make laws. Legebiltzarra gara. To make laws. We're the Legislature. And for the first time in this session we have a law to discuss, that is to say, it seems to our group today to be a very important day, because for the first time in this cycle, in this session, we are going to deal with what is most relevant in our role, which is to legislate. So, we have met not only with one bill, but with two. And they're going to allow me to say why we're going to vote for one and why we're not going to vote for admission to the second one (for the second one I mean the one presented by Euskal Herria Bildu). The problem we see with Euskal Herria Bildu's project is the following. Let's see, there's already been talk here about legal uncertainty. Any law when it begins to explain itself declares its legal site, where it incardinates and from what gets its legitimacy. This is not the case in the EH Bildu project. And why? Because I believe that, although in many of the things they say they can be right, and we hope that they can be incorporated into the process of law, what they make clear, on the one hand, is something we all know, that the system has problems and that we have to fix them, but I understand that the proposal that EH Bildu usually makes is "Let's break the system and build it again". Of course, breaking a system is a very risky move. Very risky. And all the system ruptures that have occurred in history have produced a great deal of suffering, a great deal of it. Then, our group prefers to amend, correct, improve what is presented to us, rather than break it and start again to see what happens. And legal uncertainty for us comes from there. We are not explained where the legal roots of the project are. It is also true that, of course, the legal roots of the project are mainly in the laws that govern at the national level, and I understand that that can give some hives. But I do want to say one thing: knowledge and action from scratch is much poorer and much more expensive. Both in knowledge and in action, it is like climbing a mountain, and it is very different to start at sea level than to start already at three hundred, four hundred or five hundred meters of altitude, which, logically, we will get further. So, I understand you have hives, but I don't think it's justified. Then in their project the EH Bildu group, in our opinion, following a tic that they have in almost everything, less as far as education is concerned, disregard 43% of the network, which is the part that goes to concerted centres. It's just that you can't... Yeah, they talk all the time, they present the network as a subsidiary thing, a thing that's there... No, 43% no longer say of families, but of young people going to Vocational Training, they go to a concerted centre. They can't have mania. And, indeed, that tic – in my opinion – of cornering, of cornering, Mrs Ubera, I have seen in your speech. "Hau euskaldun legea" eta "guk hemen idazten dugu euskaraz" eta ez daki zer, eta "Gobernuak ez du egin; Gobernuak egin du gaztelez...". Look, Mrs Ubera, the reality is that a very high percentage of the population, even having basic knowledge of Basque, prefers to speak Spanish. So, if you do things just for the Basques, you're not looking after the whole population. Eta guk badakigu denok pixka badakitela euskaraz, nik bezala, ez osso ondo, bathe nik nahiago dut gastelaniaz egin, zeren eta nire burua askoz aisago azierazten doubalako; orduan, badago nor bezalako jende pia bata éta... If there is a legal text in Basque, it is that I do not understand it, especially because my Basque is from the street; then, all those new words of many syllables, of what, then, I do not understand them. And then you tell us that nothing, that this is for euskaldun, et cetera, et cetera. We consider that your text is full of ideology, and, of course, ideology has to be present (we are not equal, we are different, we each have our ideological principles), but I do not believe that a law is the place to ideologically justify positions. Its text is very justifiable, it is rather literature, and a legal text should not be that. What do you mean, I'm a gehiago? Then, we don't like how you approach the basic FP. The basic FP is, for the first time, when we put in the FP system all those who previously finished the ESO without having acquired enough level and took care of them the municipalities, but were not in the system. At the moment we put them in the system, which fortunately means that school failure figures are falling a lot. But it is a phenomenon that has to be treated much better than you say, because the formula that you say, that the centers also have to deal with the basic FP, moreover within a very short time, is going to leave some 300 teachers who have so far dealt with other institutions of these people, and who have also been, for me, professors who deserve recognition. Why? Because they've probably taken care of the toughest, most complicated students. And you with a couple of caps put them in integrated vocational training and destroy everything we already have, while in the bill presented to us by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group we have deadlines, etc., to integrate these people. Then it is very important something that has always seemed to us fundamental and that we are very happy that it has been collected here, which is the presence and strength of English. Look, there may be philosophers... well, philosophers usually know German, but there may be, for example, doctors who throughout their lives work well in the Basque Country or in the rest of Spain and do not need to know English. If it is important for someone to know English precisely, it is for those who do Vocational Training in a medium in which we want export to be one of the main objectives. Because these are the people who are going to go – I remember the other day I expressed myself like this –..., they are going to go to Poland (Poland or Hungary, or Czechoslovakia) to set up a machine, and they are going to have to go back when the machine doesn't work, and explain why it doesn't work, and do repairs, and give a workshop to the operators there on how it works. If someone really needs a preparation in English he is the person who leaves FP. And now I will explain why we are going to vote for admission to the Nationalist and Socialist Group bills. First, they attach great importance to the dual FP, which, as you know, is the product of LOMCE. There were other attempts here before, but in the current format it is a product of LOMCE. It is of great importance, which we welcome for a number of reasons, but one of them is that almost 90% of people in Vocational Training get to work, and usually in that company where they have been combining their studies. And it is important, first, for employability, but it is important for another reason, which is demography: that you stay in Euskadi, that you do not leave, that you work here, that we hope you can do your family project here, and that we hope you will provide us with another generation that will pay you pensions. I'm already going to be paid, but all of you, who are young, like we don't have people here who stay in Euskadi, who take care of the next generation, you who are here about forty years old, will have it very difficult. In other words, dual vocational training is important for employability and demography. It gives great importance to English, very much, and that satisfies us, for what I have said before. Sets up evaluations. There is no process that, if you do not have a regular evaluation, can improve! It is a kind of complacency to design a process that is not evaluated. He's got evaluations, and we appreciate it. It is capable of incardinating itself in the competitive framework we have. What does that mean? That starts the race at 500 meters altitude, not at sea level, where above there will be a lot of legal problems. It begins on the shoulders of other legislations, and it has the possibility, starting from that height, to improve that legislation until then in force. Well, then he's got specialized network nodes... For all that, because of the general nature, because it does not start from scratch, but rather reform, improves, that is why we are going to vote in favour of the admission to the draft law presented to us by the Nationalist and Socialist groups. We will make amendments, we believe that it can also be improved; we will make amendments, we will negotiate, and we will try to contribute our..., not our grain of sand, a little more: our perspective. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u23	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Since there are no reverse shifts, we'll go straight to the vote. [[Pause]] As I have said, the dispute is over and the Euko Abertist will vote and the legal proposition made by the Basque Socialists together is considered in detail or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters of 55; contraries, 18; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u24	So, it's agreed that the bill's been approved. Next up is a vote description. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u25	gentlemen: Good morning. Thank you. From our parliamentary group we want to comment that we would have liked to have facilitated the processing of the two bills, because we also had proposals for both proposals, and also for respect for the work and the proposal that the EH Bildu group had brought, a project with which we also felt closer. I am not going to repeat the fundamental thing that is also for our group the development of this law of vocational training as a whole...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u26	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u27	Thank you. ... for the whole of Basque society, for the future of the economy, for the future of employment, for the future of the employability of Basque youth, but we would like to point out in these minutes some of the shortcomings that we see in the proposed law that is being processed, and some of the proposals that we will also be making from our parliamentary group. We think and agree that leadership must be on the part of the Department of Education, coordinated with other departments, parliaments and local development agencies. And it seems to us, and not just in its case, to us that it is essential that it be always with the participation of the social partners. We think and defend a vocational training that must have as its axis the public network, as a guarantee of equal opportunities for all citizens. We therefore find it essential to expand the coverage of the public network and not to lose further ground in this regard. We believe that vocational training is essential for the interests of Basque society as a whole, and that is why we are concerned about some of the concepts, which we already know about, such as public-private collaboration. That we are not against working with companies, but we do have to do with a lot more demands and a lot more guarantees. Because from the government we have to lead the change of that productive model, we have to lead the change of this model of vocational training, the change towards an economy even more based on innovation, but with a fundamental role that companies also have to play, but with greater demand on the part of the public authorities towards them and greater control over what they do. A very linked FP – and that is one of the elements in which we were very much in agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal – to our villages, our neighborhoods and our development of the regions, to local development. We believe that the proposal that they bring us from the Government can be improved in this regard, in the parliamentary process. We miss it, and I think it is worth an effort to be able to work and reach consensus on it. He also said that with the fundamental participation of the social partners in the collegiate bodies. It is curious that the bill speaks and puts in commas, in terms of the participation of trade unions, when it puts "and, in their case". It seems to us essential that the participation of trade unions in the development of vocational training should be an absolute priority of this new law. As far as dual vocational training is concerned, there are great headlines about this new form of training, but what we have and what we want to make clear in the amendments we will be doing is that dual vocational training will never be able to replace a company worker. Because that is what we fear is happening in many cases, and there are also union complaints about that. They must be exclusive training contracts with rights, and there must be clear control by the Government, and also by the Labour Inspectorate, why not, of this type. Because this modality, which can be very positive for both students and society as a whole, cannot cover up labour exploitation practices and practices where labour rights are being violated. Both proposals – although only one of them is now going to be dealt with, but I think we can work through the amendments – talk, I think, in a small way, but it can be improved, about the subject of teachers. We believe that this is one of the major outstanding subjects in terms of vocational training. We believe that they should be given more training within working hours, and more recognition. Finally, because I am running out of time, we also think that transparency clauses should be included in this law, especially if we are to continue to work on subsidies in some of the areas. Because we know that within the training schools that are used for lifelong learning courses, etc., situations of violation of teachers' rights, of labour rights, are taking place. Therefore, we again show our affirmative vote on the handling of the bill (we would have liked it to be both), and we will work to try to reach a law of vocational training suitable for Basque society, and suitable also for employability and for the improvement of the living conditions of the working class in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u28	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law of Parliament, the Commission of Job and Justice, concerning the transfer of the prison policy, concerning the production of a policy for the present situation, and the production of proposals. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal, the representative of the EH Collector, the High Court, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u29	Good morning, everyone. Thank you for giving me your word. And, to begin with, I think we should explain why we were planning on doing this, and why we're planning that power inside the Justice Committee. And to understand it well, and to place it properly, I think it is important to remark three or four things, before we say other things. On the one hand, what we've seen was that P.N.V., according to the agreement signed by PSE, was planning to transfer the prison police. That's one thing that's important to us right now. Even when the chief physician of justice presented his plans in the legislature, he insisted that in several ways he stakes on this transfer, and also that there is this task among his priorities. In connection with this subject, the Basque People are proposed several questions in writing, in different occurrences, and the answer we received when we had these questions to our surprise was not very correct. We haven't heard or explained what sort of things they were about to say and how they're going to do that. We thought maybe they didn't know, that they weren't very clear how to focus and how to complete this transfer. When we asked other things in writing, the chief physician knew how many persons in Spain are in full of his sentence during the prisons of Spain, though condemned in the province or in some other part of the legislature, the answer was that they did not know and should ask, and after they had received the answer, he would tell us how many there are. When we asked for other things, the answer was the same: "I don't know. I have to ask... "I don't know. Then our question is: How are you going to make a policy when the transfers arrive, if you don't know who, or how many people, or what conditions are there, and how do you plan? We also see that there is a great social consensus on this subject. And it has been very clear, in the last few days, that social society is concerned with several groups of people who work on this subject, because they see the need of this transfer, and they also demand the transfer of this transfer by transfer. And they underlined that. Adibide bat isateagatik, ESEN, which is a citizen's network working inside prisons and of which there are nineteen entities (including entities carrying out very important work in prisons, such as the Red Cross), have held a press conference this week, and in this press conference they have stressed the need for this transfer to be carried out as soon as possible, because they understand that when this transfer is carried out, social employment policies, services which are already the responsibility of the Basque Government and which can help to provide comprehensive and unified assistance and care to persons in prison will have to be added to the subject. The unions, too, have contributed to this, and, no doubt, our team, the Basque Country, has made a bet on this transfer. and when it has been proposed, it has been one of these to work in different measures. Then why do we plan this? Well, we plan to create power, and to work there amongst our wants, among our labours, and we believe that the work of the institution and the necessity of the people is an important thing. And if we associate the defence of the rights of men with the persons who are in it, we believe that it must be a priority, and that we must look at them in order to correct them. Guk esaldi batan nahi dugu hori dena kokatu: Prison can never be a border for institutions, political parties and social actors to abandon their functions. And that also seems important to us. For all these reasons, and also because we believe that from the point of view of the construction of a state to which Euskal Herria Bildu wants to reach is also important the transfer of prisons... Eskuduntza horiek behar ditugu eta statu-trenak behar ditugu. Egunen batu statu izazko hau ere gai inportantee dellako, posetzen dugu eztabaida Egyptian Parliament Honen barruan. We must open a debate on the situation and prison reality, we must do so in this Parliament, and we must do so as soon as possible, so that when the transfer is a reality we are prepared to respond to the situation. Our team is testing and being done is planning the transfer before it gets there. And for this purpose we must open the gates of Parliament, and need open the gates of Parliament to hear, to act, to examine, to conclude, to make propositions, and when propositions are said, and received to pass over to the Government, and to say how it must be written. Eta hau ikusi dugu, these Honetan egon gare Katalunian eta ikusi dugu Parlamentuaren lanak zer-nolako garrantzia izan two gauza horiek beast modu batan egiteko. Orin de la gutxi, Parlamentu horretan, Kataluniako Parlamentuan komisioa bat fateu, and in this commission have had a very important impact all people outside the institutions who have participated and have had a parliamentary debate with social entities on issues as important and as relevant as prison isolation, such as dealing with that isolation, what alternative measures can be asked, how can be done. In other words, society has helped Parliament and helped the government put other measures on the table. We don't understand how it is that we are capable of social intercourse, of contacting society, of doing things to society, and then of shutting up the doors to society, and saying that it is not necessary to come together, or to have their designs transferred to it here. We don't understand, we think it's a very contradictory thing, and that's why we plan to do this. We want to analyse the current situation, we want to see what kind of prison policy we want to develop, what instruments we need to do so. We want to design and have a prison policy of our own, from our needs and for the needs of the people who are part of our community. Euskal Herria Bildu does not like it, does not agree with the current model of prison policy in the Spanish State, with how the issues are carried out, and we do not want to move that model as it is to what we are going to do in the Basque Country. We believe that we should have different elements. And we also think that the transfer cannot be just a transfer of infrastructure, and then have no choice of doing anything different to improve the conditions of people in prison. And then we ask ourselves: what then is the problem that there can be to discuss all this in Parliament? Because, if what we think is that a paper does not serve to make this kind of analysis and to make this discussion, then we also have to consider removing the papers from the Rules of Procedure! But we think that the place where this debate has to be held, the place where things have to be done, because the Legislature also has things to say within its capabilities, is Parliament. Eta horregatik posetzen dugu hori. We also have another reason, which is important to us, and it is that freedom itself renders the neglect of men more serious, independent of their surroundings and of their social relations. We are aware that people serving sentences are mostly from areas of social exclusion, and present specific needs that require specialized models, specialized means, specialized care, to meet all the needs they have in all areas that affect them. And that's also our responsibility. And we also need to talk about that, and we need to see what we want to do. There's another thing that's very important to us, and it's that we have to look into other formulas to deal with the crime. We need it for different formulas, not just prison. And with this subject, we must listen to different points of view, from the judge to the social ascetic, to the inside, to hear, to examine, to examine, and make propositions. And, of course, when we plan one thing, we have to look at it, it's the way infrasctures are. We'll have a chance to arrange the inside of the prison, and with it, what we'll be able to discuss is the inner stuff and how to carry things forward. Check the tools inside the prison, do things and work. Eta honekin will beat, guretzako garrantzi handiko gaia, éta tugu aztertu beharrean gaudela era: emakumeak eta kartzela. We have prisons in the Basque Country that are designed for men, where there are no specific modules for women, where the care and assistance given to them are not, from our point of view, adequate and does not respond to their needs. We'll have to see if we want that or we want something else, or how we have to deal with that need. We'll have to think and design and see what policy we're going to have in relation to mothers with children, nursing mothers... I mean, we have a lot, a lot, a lot of issues on the table, and a lot of issues that we have to deal with. That is why we would not understand and do not understand that there is no favourable position of all the groups in this House to hold a debate on these conditions. And we don't understand it, we wouldn't understand it, and I don't think the social partners will understand it either. In fact, some of the parliamentarians who are here today in this plenary were last Friday in a few days that ESEN did, and this issue came out, and this issue came out, and the question of the presentation was put on the table, and ESEN, the members of this network raised the need for this presentation to be made, and they told us that it seemed interesting to them and that they were willing to participate. For surely all these, all these groups, would not understand that this Parliament, when it wants to participate, when it wants to contribute, when it wants to make a different prison policy for all people in prison, closes the doors for them and does not allow them to enter into this analysis. Ye el teametiento más adecuado para nosotras es este: and I believe that we shall have a chance to come to an agreement. That's why we plan this, that's why we want to vote for it. And we're waiting, because there's no correction, because there's nothing to listen to what everyone thinks, to see what his attitude is. If you say no, what true reasons are, if there have been. I think it's very difficult, but we're waiting for an answer. Our proposal is there, and we hope it will go well and forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u30	Thank you, signor. The next round of teams that have no corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Our group is not usually a group that refuses to make presentations in this Parliament, but, of course, when one proposes to make a presentation or proposes to set up a presentation in this Basque Parliament, one must first see what the purpose of that presentation is, and secondly, whether there is a need for such a presentation to be made. At first, when the reasons for the creation of the paper were explained, it was said that the aim was to analyse the current situation and the proposals concerning the transfer of prison institutions. The truth is that if we stick to this specific point, to the literal tenor, creating a paper for this is excessive, because the transfer of prison competition will be something to decide... It is true that it is in the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, but in any case it will be something to decide between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. It will be through an agreement between them when this transfer is decided. So, there's the formula, they say they've used it... If they answer more or less clearly then it will be a question of resubmitting it, if the explanations are not the right ones, but, as I say, the formula would be to ask or ask both the Government of Spain, in the Congress of Deputies, and the Basque Government here, when they will agree between them the opportunity, the time and the formula for making the transfer. And if what is intended, as has been said here, is to talk about new prison legislation and a new prison policy, it should be pointed out that many aspects of which were highlighted in the justification and which have also been reiterated here today are not available to the Basque Government, when in their case we have the transfer of prison institutions. There is a clear distinction between executive competence in prison matters and prison legislation. Because, in accordance with the provisions of our Constitution in article 149.1.6, it is the exclusive competence of the State both prison law and criminal law. It is true that according to our Statute of Autonomy, in its article 10.14, Euskadi can exercise competence in the organization, regime and functioning of institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisoners and social reintegration, in accordance with civil, criminal and penitentiary legislation, which, as I say, is the competence of the State. In accordance with 12.1 of the Statute, it already clearly states that the implementation of the State's prison legislation is the responsibility of our autonomous community. Therefore, aspects mentioned in the initiative, such as changes in the legal system, or those relating to prison surveillance courts, are neither competent nor will they be, despite the transfer, Euskadi. They do not come into those matters that can be transferred, nor do they – which you have said here, Mrs Goirizelaia – analyse formulas to give different answers to the crime. This constitutes criminal legislation, as set out in the Criminal Code, which, I repeat, is the exclusive competence of the State. So, we can create a paper and we can bring in different experts here to tell us what other possible solutions would be, other possible best responses for criminal acts, but we would not have the competence, if any, to modify those different responses to the crime. Because, as I say, that in the Congress of Deputies. What would be the subject of the transfer would be prison institutions, compliance, indeed, or treatment formulas, but in no case – again – prison legislation. In Catalonia, it is true that its Statute provided for such a transfer. It was made in 83, and then expanded in 86. And the current Statute of Catalonia, which gives rise to the drafting of 2006, in its article 186, adopts a broader treatment of the subject, although it does not alter the fundamentals that I am presenting to you here, limiting the power of the Generalitat to executive competence and aspects relating to planning, management, administration and organization. Although I must also say that having competence does not always mean doing it better, because there are quite a few criticisms of the form or execution of this competition in Catalonia. With regard to Euskadi, in 2011 the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions signed an institutional collaboration agreement with the Department of Justice and Interior of the Basque Government through which, as a management order, the services of penalties and alternative measures were passed to that department, in order to carry out the processing, monitoring and execution of the same measures that were dictated by the criminal courts of the Basque Country, or dictated by other courts if the convicted persons were resident in any of our three historical territories. In particular, and in accordance with article 21 of Decree 188/2013, establishing the organizational and functional structure of the Department of Public Administration and Justice, the Department of Justice is competent to implement criminal and prison legislation within its sphere of competence, in coordination with other actions of the Government in these areas. The Directorate of Justice, in exercising these powers and within existing limits, follows the recommendations made by the European Parliament in its resolution of 17 December 1998 on the prison conditions of the European Union, reorganization and substitution penalties, which urges Member States to implement all the provisions of the Council of Europe's prison regulations. That is, part of that management has already been taken over by the Basque Government, part of that management of health and educational services. And, also in accordance with our current regulations, the Basque Government, deputies and municipalities, as well as the entities to which you have referred, can meet the needs of persons deprived of their liberty. These institutions must therefore be held accountable and we must coordinate these competences that we already have in the areas of health, education, employment, social policies and so on. Because those associations to which you have referred say this. That is, what they say is that there is a lot to say about the current competencies; that before that transfer we also have a lot to do and a lot to say. On the other hand, there is the Basque Penitentiary Management Service, which is a public service of the Basque Government responsible for ensuring in our community the effective enforcement of working sentences for the benefit of the community and the suspension of the execution of custodial sentences, as well as the security measures imposed by all the Euskadi courts and tribunals. Why do I make reference to all this? Because it seems that when the transfer of prison institutions to Euskadi takes place there is nothing, this is a plot where nothing has been done and has to start from scratch. And that's not the case. That's not the case. It is true that in her appearance the councilwoman pointed out that the development of a prison policy was being proposed in which re-education and social reintegration were constituted as an essential horizon and that it was a real rehabilitation policy, and our group could no longer agree with that. But that is what is laid down in our own Constitution, the aim of the sentence is precisely that, and it is through that prison treatment that it is possible to do so. This system of degrees in the Spanish prison system is in line with the requirements of the 1984 United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners and Council of Europe Recommendation 87/3 on European Prison Standards. And both recommendations or rules are clearly respected, and it is more, even interpreted more progressively if one looks at comparative law, in our prison legislation. We therefore believe that we have sufficient data to ensure that when, by agreement between the two Governments, this transfer from the penal institutions takes place, the enforcement of sentences can be carried out here and that the constitutional mandate set out in article 25 can be fulfilled. We believe that it is not necessary to create a paper, nor to see when and how the transfer takes place, nor to see what needs to be done, because there is information. What is quite different is what you said, that we are closing Parliament's doors to possible experiences or possible contributions from associations. No! No! Because these associations, which you have already mentioned, have been in this Parliament, all the groups have been able to hear them, and the doors of any committee are open to anyone who wants to make a contribution. But that does not mean that a specific presentation should be made either to see when the transfer takes place or how the transfer takes place, or, where appropriate, to discuss issues that are not available to this Government because they are not the responsibility of the Basque Government, but are the exclusive competence of the State. That is why our group is going to vote against the creation of this paper. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u32	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u33	Good morning, everyone. Well, the Socialist Group is going to reject EH Bildu's proposal because it starts, from our point of view and from our premise, with a mistake. And we do know what to do with prison skills; we do know how the quality of life of the prison population is improved, how they are guaranteed all the rights of those who have not been deprived of their sentences. Socialists do know how we want to deal with reintegration policies, which is what is already provided for in our Constitution, and Socialists do know how to offer formulas that, without replacing criminal justice, promote restorative justice. We know that it is possible to collaborate with the Government of Spain, which will continue to be competent in prison matters, in order to achieve what is provided for in article 25 of the Constitution, which is nothing but re-education and social reintegration. Moreover, as far as we know, we have this idea so clearly, that it was the secretary general of my party, Idoia Mendia, who proposed to the lehendakari to have a specific department for this and another subject, that of work, where we have the most important challenge in terms of outstanding transfers, and we want those competences, when the agreement with the Government of Spain is reached, to be managed here in the most complete way possible and to do it well. And I tell him we know how to do it. As far as we are concerned, we have no other prison policy than a social and rehabilitation policy. And in what is not our responsibility we will be active agents in seeking complicity and agreements with the Government of Spain to achieve an effective prison policy for that purpose, which must be re-education and re-socialization. The proposing group cites a number of social issues affecting the prison population, of which we also had the opportunity to discuss at the round table that we had on Friday with the network of entities working in the prison area of Euskadi and Nafarroa. And I'm going to thank you for that being the focus of your concerns, because I can assure you that that is the focus of the concern and the model that the Department of Justice wants to establish when the transfer is agreed. That one, not another one. And I thank the proposer for this issue because so far in the public debate the focus of this matter has always, or often, only been placed in a particular group, in a part of the prison population. That I am not questioning a general concern; I say that the focus of public opinion has been placed on this part, and at times that has seen the needs of the prison population in general bewildered. So I take this opportunity to make it clear that the idea we are thinking about is not to meet the needs of one side, but of all those people who, to a different degree of gravity, have assaulted other citizens, and therefore the goal of prison policy, both from the legislation and from the management of detention centres, is shared, and it is that, whatever the reason that leads someone to prison, when he carries out his sentence and re-steps the street, he does so recognizing his error and with the firm will not to offend again. That's fundamental to us. From there, what will allow us to transfer is above all the ability to make a policy of comprehensive intervention in prisons. Because the Autonomous Administration, even though it does not have the competence transferred – and they have already been reminded here – intervenes in the field of health, education and social affairs. Two legislatures ago – the spokesman for the People's Party also said – with Idoia Mendia in the Department of Justice, it is true that the government did not reach the transfer agreement. I will not remember at this time, because it is not a question of excuses, the reticences that existed when there was still a terrorist gang that continued to kill and coerce, but that was an objective fact. Despite not getting the transfer, the Socialists do not give up this matter, because in addition to updating the provision of health and educational services, two particularly relevant conventions were signed to which Mrs Llanos has already referred in her speech, which de facto made us responsible for the care of the prison population and also made us responsible for their reintegration, which was the agreement to carry out routes of inclusion, and another that was to manage the penalties that are met outside the prison area with jobs for the benefit of the community. Then someone could ask us – and this question was also answered on Friday at the round table – what is the value of the transfer, if we already provide the services. The first is because it is so recognized in the Statute and it is a transfer that has to reach our community, but above all because we want to make an integral bet, and that, in addition to the provision of social services, work is done on an absolute reintegration of the prison population. To this end, it is also announced that a decree on restorative justice will be drawn up, which will be the responsibility of the Department of Justice and in which the Secretariat for Co-existence and Human Rights has to cooperate in its area. Because it will actually affect, or we intend to do so, the reintegration of those who have been part of terrorist gangs. On the socialist side, therefore, Mrs Goirizelaia, a determined will to carry out comprehensive prison policies in all that is our competence, and full collaboration to seek agreements and accompany those who continue to have jurisdiction over prison decisions, which in this case will be the Government of Spain. I believe, we believe the Socialists, that another prison policy is possible. We are and we are in favour of the approach of prisoners, we are defenders of the search for agreements between governments, we continue to think that it is worth exploring the way to comply with the law to find that those who have delinquent and attacked society want to meet again with this society assuming that they have made a mistake, assuming the damage caused, and we continue to think that for the whole of the prison population that is under the responsibility of the Autonomous Administration there is still a way to go. Although there are past experiences that have been shown to be an effective formula for achieving what our legal system says, it is that penalties must be geared towards such re-education and reintegration. We, Mrs Goirizelaia, have made it clear: we do not think we need that presentation. What we need is for us all to be in the same direction, towards the same commitment. We do not believe in the format of the paper; we believe in the debate to be held, but at the moment there is already a working group for the analysis and definition of the strategic lines of a prison model in Euskadi, with the formation also of open days in which there will be possibility of participation of all agents, including parliamentary groups. Once this analysis has been carried out, logically, by the Government, the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to know it, to discuss it and to make contributions to achieve that goal that we all say we have, which is the resocialization and re-education of the prison population in general. A mattization did want to perform it. At the table where we were from ESEN, from the network of entities working in the prison field, only one person from the Signum Foundation made the mention and asked us about the presentation, and she did so because she believed in a joint work of the third sector with the executive body, in the visibility of the work they do and their existence, in the debate and need for a collection of proposals from the experience they accumulate, and in the interrelationship between those who can manage and those who are in direct contact. And that's what we moved to them is that for us the important thing was the debate, but not the format; that possibly the format of the presentation we don't share that was the best, or the necessary one even for them, in which they only participate in a first intervention. We felt that a working table with a permanent link with the Executive and from different areas was much more timely, and that is why the third sector organizations are incorporated into that working group. In that area, I think we have to develop that specialized work, those collectives that you have commented on and for which you also – and they told us, because they work with them – already have some kind of program, both for the mentally ill and for people with addictions, as well as for the issue of women. But it is true that there are issues – and I told you this during my intervention – that will logically have to be improved in order for us to have an integral possibility that the enforcement of sentences is for the purpose set out in the Constitution, which is nothing other than the reintegration and re-education of prisoners.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u35	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari, Sailburuok, parliamentary colleagues, parliamentary companions. What's the starting situation? Well, it seems that the transfer of prison management will arrive in Euskadi sooner than later; the socialist councilwoman, Mary Jesus Saint Joseph, will be responsible for such management. The normal thing is to share the debate and achieve maximum political and social consensus to successfully address this complex management. That is why we found the proposal by Mrs Jone Goirizelaia to be a suggestion, and we will support it. But the PNV doesn't agree. We didn't know that the PSOE and the PP disagreed, but I'm going to devote more time to the PNV. You don't mind, do you? The PNV does not agree to share the debate in a specific presentation within the framework of the Committee on Labour and Justice. I was preparing the amendment and I was told: "Iturrate said no; the PNV does not sign." The truth is that I was surprised, because Mr Iturrate, apart from being a friendly man and a good parliamentarian, is a neighbour of the Old Bilbao Helmet, which gives positive added value to his profile and personality. Is it that the PNV wants to negotiate only with the PP the transfer and does not need mosquitoes? Man, I do not think so, above all thinking that the responsibility for its management lies with the Socialist Councilwoman. What happens, that the issues are simple to address, or does not need social and political consensus to touch on these issues in our country? Let us see, the very conditions of the transfer, the possibility to intervene in the management, among other things, of the classifications, destinations and internal regime of the prisons, and to integrate the management processes with those already transferred (penitentiary health and itineraries of socio-laboral insertion), do not seem simple. Does the PNV not want to negotiate, debate, contrast a prison model of its own in Basque, a system of criminal execution that does not increase marginalization or chronicle the factors that lead to crime for the most part, that populate our prisons and re-enter? I don't believe it. We therefore need to agree on how to organize our social reintegration models for prisoners and prisoners. Has the PNV clear what to do with the planned new prison in Zubieta, in Donostia? We, for example, believe that with a prison for serving sentences is enough in Euskadi. We already have the new Zaballa prison in Araba, 708 modern cells. We consider that with organizing in the urban spaces of Donostia and Bilbao new centers of social insertion, to care for people deprived of their liberty who are making progress in their itineraries of socio-laboral reintegration, it is enough. For interns and interns residing in Araba there would be sufficient reception apartments located in Gasteiz. No, it doesn't seem simple! There may be real uprisings. It would seem that a certain social consensus with the entities of social initiative and with the political parties in the municipalities, in the municipalities and in this very Parliament would be interesting. To organize and regulate legislative processes for the application of restorative justice and reintegration. Parliamentarian Alexia Castelo has already commented: in fact, there is a proposal for a decree to standardize mediation processes in the resolution of conflicts and in the recognition of victims. This proposal does not seem simple. It seems desirable that this debate be accompanied by a deep process of social awareness, so that not only what is transferred, but also how it is transferred, and above all for what it is transferred. We understand that competition must be an opportunity to make Basque society responsible for the use that is made in its name of criminal intervention, and to know its consequences. Do you want to do the PNV alone? He's a brown man! I wish you luck. The social initiative entities with which we were pleased to be Alexia, Jone, Joseba and Carmelo Barrio on Friday, in a very interesting debate (more than twenty entities from the Basque Country and Navarre), continue to be a fundamental factor, in our opinion, because on it rests the chances that the person in prison will receive effective support in their socio-laboral reintegration process. The knowledge of their work by the Basque public authorities, as well as the consolidation of the prison reality as part of the agents of social policies, is essential. Integrate care and access to social services, both inside and outside prisons and prisons, is essential, especially the defence of the individual rights of prisoners and prisoners and especially of the most vulnerable groups: women (most under thirty years of age, most illiterate, most with children, a significant percentage of drug addicts), immigrants (most drug addicts, at least in the surveys we know of Nanclares and other prisons in the Basque Country), people of Gypsy ethnicity (cultural problems, communication problems, problems of cultural competence in forms of social intervention). And on the other hand the Basque prisoners and prisoners, almost three hundred, that it is necessary to organize another model of management of allocation of degrees and permanence. There is a need for a change in the criminal treatment of terrorist crimes (the Ararteko report says, it has not even occurred to me), its approach to the Basque prisons, in order to promote their social reintegration, to avoid the social uprooting of the prisoners, favoring their social ties. Twenty-four years in prison, twenty-six years in prison, twenty-seven years in prison... they come out of dust, be they from Nanclares, be they from EPPK, be they common... It's the same, they're broken and broken. As much social mattress as they have or don't have, as much sectarianism as they find, it's the same. Twenty years, nineteen, sixteen, twenty-five... Where are you going? With what social reintegration capacities, with what proposals for social reintegration? Okay! Its integration and the normal regime of internment, the review of sentences assigned judicially, the departure of prisoners and prisoners sick, with serious incurable problems, etc., etc. It is a good opportunity, from the Council of Labour and Justice, to address these issues with political consensus, with social consensus. Eliminate special provisions relating to terrorist groups and offences, which prevent the granting of the third-degree regime and access to conditional release. Effectively integrate health care in a planned and comprehensive way (I insist on the concept) of prison offices into the Osakidetza network of services, without unnecessary expectations, with adequate security measures. No more or less. Special attention to mental health, AIDS and drug addictions, with programs with internal and internal and with continuity in the care of exit in any of its forms. This is called attention programming, and institutional and extra-institutional continuity. I have a few issues left, which are more complicated and difficult to address and always in need of political consensus and social consensus processes. It seems to us that we need a discussion and analysis paper to discuss these and other issues specifically. The PNV disagrees. I am convinced that the PNV has well-thought-out and debated positions on all these issues, but why don't you tell us? I say to the others, to learn, to take note, so that in our areas of political management and influence we can contrast our opinions. Why don't we...? What's the problem? I believe that the PNV should be reminded that it does not have an absolute majority in this Parliament. We know your pragmatism to reach bilateral agreements with the PP, with the PSOE, with Bildu if that were the case, or with us, because this is still very long. I only ask God not to be indifferent to the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u37	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good noon to all. To create a power in the legislature, we propose to discuss today with the EH Collectors. Exactly, the proposal to create a policy of prison policy in the case of work and the Justice Committee. The equipment is not new. On the 28th of February 2014 this Chamber debated the institution, the Security and the Justice Committee, proposed by the same party, and the committee rejected it. Gai berri buruzko ekimen beriria da. Zer aldatu da ordutik hona? What changes have occurred since then, since February 2014? We could mention the disarmament of ETA on 8 April, after more than five years from its ceasefire. The threat of the return of ETA terrorism has disappeared, and pending its dissolution, there is no longer an excuse (unjustifiable, by the way, from our point of view) to complete the transfer or to recompose the state of penal and prison normality. Another important novelty, perhaps the main novelty, is that it seems that the abertzale left has resolutely joined the historic nationalist claim of the transfer of competition, which, all in all, seems very positive and important to us. And what follows is that neither ETA nor the abertzale left have made a critical reading of the human rights violations of the terrorist gang, recognition of the damage caused and that it was unfair, and that the transfer has not been completed, and that the positions of the two sides of the bilateral relationship remain in the same terms. The PNV, this Parliament and the Basque Government continue to demand the transfer, i.e. compliance with the Statute of Gernika (Article 10(14) and Article 12(1)), almost thirty-eight years after its adoption. As Mrs Goirizelaia said, the government agreement between the PNV and the Socialist Party for the current 2016-2020 parliamentary term, in the section entitled "More and better self-government", following the list of outstanding transfers (up to thirty-four) establishes the commitment of the signatories to work so that in the agenda of bilateral relations to be established with the central government a priority is reserved to the claim and negotiation of transfers relating to prisons. And the position of the Spanish Government remains the same, that of denying this transfer, although now, without an absolute majority, dialogue is possible, which before was not. We were told by the PP, spokespersons from the PP have said that it will come when a situation of normality occurs. We understand that, and we do, compliance with the Statute is required outside any political situation. There can be no conscious and deliberate breach of the existing legal order and then demand that others comply with it in a timely manner. So, in that context, we believe it's important to re-equivocate the state of Gunika and demand transfer of prison organizations. If we add more and more to that front, then better. Having made this introduction that we thought was necessary, our group is going to vote against its proposal to create a new paper. First, Decree 84/2017 of 11 April, establishing the organizational and functional structure of the Department of Labour and Justice, in its article 11 (f), provides that the Deputy Councillor of Justice is responsible for planning the exercise of autonomous powers in the field of institutions and prisons. The Government is therefore responsible for such planning, and will manage it as an understanding that is most timely. It's your responsibility. As Mrs Castelo said, a working group is already under way. This is not about, as I have heard you say, putting on medals. When it's up to you to do what you normally have to do, you don't get medals. They usually wear medals when someone does something that they don't have to do. The outstanding transfers are issues that must be addressed by the central Government, which is at all times, and the Basque Government, on a bilateral basis in the Joint Transfer Commission. Therefore, we do not believe that the creation of the proposed paper can help bring the transfer closer together. And Parliament must not supplant the government. He'll say, "No, if we don't raise that, I'll supplant the government." In your speech, you said that the report that you prepared would be proposals to tell the Government how it should do so. And Parliament has other ways or mechanisms in its role of impulse and control of the Government, such as asking for appearances, questions, appeals, motions, etc., and that is what it is doing and should do. We share with you that the transfer to Euskadi will improve the system. Don't have any doubts. Without the transfer, the Basque Government has been working for years to improve the conditions of prisoners, with the clear objective of Article 25.2 of the Constitution, of re-education and social reintegration. He was talking about other different formulas that they want to implant. In Euskadi, without the transfer, different formulas have already been put in place: restorative justice in juvenile justice programmes, which, as Mr Uria said the other day, make us head in the State in terms of the reintegration of juvenile offenders; pilot experiences of intra-judicial mediation in the social and criminal field; work for the benefit of the community, which Mrs Castelo spoke, with agreements between the Basque Government and Eudel; also restorative workshops and meetings between victims and authors; socio-laboral itineraries for prisoners; the Hitzeman and Zuzen Bidean programmes for the resocialization of prisoners... So, as you see, imagination and ideas are held. He also said that institutions must work for the rights of individuals, including prisoners. I don't think I tell the PNV, because the PNV, in its one hundred and twenty-two years of history, has always defended the maximum of all human rights for all people. As I say, he defends him now and defends him forty years ago as well, and during that time. She was also talking about last Friday's day with social entities in the prison field, organized by the ESEN platform, and here she wanted to express – Mrs Castelo told me, I will be more clear – that what was said there is not distorted. There was a question there, of the more than twenty that were realized to those we participated, which (and it is recorded, with which it can be verified)... The specific question was curious, because no one there had said that there was this proposal. He said: "What assessment do the rest of the parliamentary groups make of EH Bildu's proposal to create a paper?". That was the question, I think an interesting and objective question. And the conclusions that were given to us at the end of that day – they are here, you may have read them – in no case make mention of the need to create the paper to which you have referred. It is true that those associations or social actors who work day by day with people who are in prison, and do an unpayable job, do want them to be heard and to be interlocutors. And, as we said, we recognize that they are valid, necessary and indispensable interlocutors. Finally, we believe that there is no need for a presentation for each of the outstanding transfers (we spoke before thirty-four) mentioned in the government agreement. Whenever presentations have been made in this Parliament, it has been agreed by all groups, and, as you see, this is not the case. He was talking about Catalonia, which they have taken as a model for many things, and he was talking about a committee being set up there or a committee being set up to see how this matter was discussed. As you are well aware, two new speeches have been made or have been taken up in this Parliament. One that is the presentation for the update of the self-government of Euskadi. You said that Bildu's aspiration is to a state, a Basque state, and that within that Basque state prison policies are important... Well, that's where you have a forum to discuss prison policies, if that's your priority. And there is also the presentation of Memory and Coexistence, where one of the aspects to work, together with the victims, memory and coexistence and human rights, will be the prison policy. Therefore, EH Bildu said it is necessary to open a debate on the prison reality. One? Two? Three? How many debates on the prison reality have to be opened in this Parliament? We therefore believe that there are already areas in this Parliament where each group and the actors involved can have a voice and put forward their proposals in this area. Mr Uria, I am not from the Old Helmet, I am from the oldest village in Bizkaia, but I can tell you that the Basque Nationalist Party does not refuse to discuss this or any other matter. Do the forums that are open to talk about prison reality seem to you to be few debates? And mostly because it doesn't depend on anyone when it comes to making decisions. In conclusion, the Journal Party remains at work to obtain the transfer of the prisons, and to find a solution to the state of prisoners with severe diseases. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to the turn of the answers, from EH Collect, the High Court, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u39	Thank you. Mrs Llanos, when we are having a debate in which the Government of the Spanish State has to lose something of its sovereignty, something of its power, in order to give it up somehow, the People's Party always puts a lot of problems on the table. And it did not seem strange to me, before listening to your speech, the position that I have then heard you will maintain in relation to the presentation's approach. But I do want to tell you two things. One, that we are aware, very aware, that the transfer does not involve legislative powers; there is no direct relationship between one thing and another. But we are also very conscious and know that the law is interpreted, and interpreted every day. And look at whether prison legislation is interpreted, that prison legislation contains resolutions to release Galindo and not to release Ibon Iparragire; it contains resolutions to make what we were told yesterday to happen, in the Human Rights Commission, the mother of Sara Majarenas, the mother of Izar. But we also know that we can make circulars, internal regulations, because that capacity does exist, and that allows things to change. I mean, you can do things, and you can do many and very different things. And when you were talking to me about alternative penalties, I'm going to remind you of everything you've said and a United Nations standard, 110, that calls on states to commit to that. The Spanish State has signed this agreement. So let him do it, because other European states are already doing it. I would say to the Socialist Party that I do not understand why they want to steal the debate from Parliament. I do not understand why they want to take the debate out of Parliament and take it to a committee outside Parliament, the government, in which it is not well known how we are going to be or how we are going to be discussing it, or how we are going to do it, or how or anything. I understand that the debate must be done here, that it must be done in Parliament, and that it must be done in the way we have pointed out. Because it's not the same thing as a paper group, and it's not the same thing doing the joint work here than going to a place where someone's going to do something else and they're going to introduce it to us. And you say to me, "It's that we have all the data, we know perfectly well how to do things, we've managed." Man, the Socialist Party has often managed prison policy in general, and in particular in the Spanish State, and the Socialist Party's prison policy in the Spanish State has been negative, has been harmful, has not been good. And even if you have all the data, you'll agree with me that that's been the case. And, look, you'll have all the data, but the counselor, when I ask you things, tells me, "I don't know, I don't know..., I'll ask, I'll tell you..., I'll tell you, I'll tell you, I'll tell you...", with which – here are your answers – I don't know what data you're talking about. These answers are given by the Counsellor, with an extension of the deadline for replying. He doesn't know. But when I ask him in committee, he doesn't know either. So, your management has been as it has been, you have no data now, and we want to get the debate out of Parliament. Well, I think it's very complicated to give this explanation. I don't agree. And to the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr. Zorrilla, look, it's not the same government policy as country policy. It's not the same. It's not the same, and we want to do country politics. And, look, you're telling me that everything is a matter of government and that you're going to do things quickly. For I asked who has to do this, I asked Mr Erkoreka, and he answered me on 13 June saying that there has been no meeting on the transfer of prisons. That is, it must not be a government policy, because they have not met! Forty years have passed since the Statute was made, more than a hundred days since we started the legislature, it is a priority, and there has not been a single meeting to talk about this issue which is government policy, and I suppose it is also bilateral. And you now refer me to the self-government paper and the peace and coexistence paper. But, let's see, do you want to explain to me what the goal of the self-government presentation for the PNV is? It is not to go to another status, it is not to move forward to do something else so that then the State tells us not what things in favor or against when presented to it. But we are talking about a transfer that has been in place for forty years, that exists, and that has to be done and managed, and that is not for a new status, that is for the status of now. We're talking about different things! And the presentation of peace and coexistence, therefore, is that it is for something else. I understand it's for something else. Because the approach of our presentation is global, it affects all people deprived of their liberty, everyone, and in the presentation of peace and coexistence we will deal with the issue from a different conception and with a different approach. And it is obviously on the table, because for Euskal Herria Bildu it is a priority that respects the rights...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u40	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u41	... of all Basque political prisoners and prisoners. It is a priority, it is a necessity, and that is something that is on the agenda not only of Euskal Herria Bildu, but of many other parties and also of society, but they are different things. Of course, let's see again the tripartite theoretician roller: all agree on no. We are concerned that this is a reality. In any case, it seems that we are not going to make the presentation, but we are not going to steal the debate from this Parliament. Euskal Herria Bildu will bring proposals and initiatives to the Committee on Justice so that this can be done. And let's see what the answer is for the rest of the groups...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u42	Please be done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u43	Yeah, I'm done right now. We are going to do this, we are going to put forward in the next few days a series of appearances from different groups so that we can bring this debate to Parliament, even if you do not want it, and that we can carry out initiatives on such an important issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u44	Thank you, signor. Euscala Popular representative, Mrs. Llanos. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u45	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. Mrs Goirizelaia, it is not a question of us refusing to make this presentation because we are refusing to transfer or because it is a matter of transferring prisons. No, no, It is that we refuse the constitution of the paper, or do not consider it appropriate, for the two issues I have told you before. One, because the object of the presentation, according to you, was, first of all, to establish the conditions, the way, the form, the time and the opportunity to carry out that transfer, and that is not the subject of a presentation, but that must be the result of the agreement and negotiations between the two governments involved in the matter. And secondly, because you're talking to me about interpretations. Don't trap me in solitary, Mrs Goirizelaia: you don't want to make interpretations; you want or pretend or believe that you can raise questions in that presentation about changing prison legislation. Prison legislation which, as I have told you, is not a competence, nor will it be a competence, after the transfer, of the Basque Government. Then excessive interpretations of the law by which you intend to establish a new prison framework is something that goes beyond that presentation, and that cannot be the subject of that presentation, because we are not going to debate or make a presentation on issues on which we are neither competent at this time nor are we going to be competent afterwards. That we are open to debate? Of course, I've told you before! It is no hindrance that the paper does not exist so that, as it has existed in past legislatures, those appearances that we consider to be coming to improve the own competences that we already have and the future ones that we can acquire, and that can help us precisely to exercise those competences, can come. Proposals? The ones you want. That there is a need for a paper on this issue? From our group we consider that it is not, and that is why we are voting against it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u46	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Castelo, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u47	I had thanked you, Mrs Goirizelaia, in my first speech, for referring to a global group of prisoners. In his second speech, he went directly to what really underlies his interest in the transfer of penitentiary institutions, in the debate on prison policy. I'm not going in. It is true that I was also prepared for some possible reply in this area, but I am not going to enter it. Look, I'm not going to go in because on Friday we had the opportunity to participate for many hours some, others a little less, and we were able to take note of those that we stayed there, regarding what are the proposals and needs that all the entities that are made up of the ESEN network, which are those who work in the prison environment, both inside and outside the penitentiary, told us. And I think it can be timely because they told us, and they gave us a document that we all have, which has been told by Mr Zorrilla, that in a very short part says that people who serve a prison sentence come in most of the areas of social exclusion, that they have a cluster of deficits and educational, social, educational, health, economic, administrative, emotional needs... and that attention to all these needs of the prison population is what they believe that such a transfer would bring. It would add that in addition to working as we are working, in health, education, prevention, we can also make a personalized and comprehensive attention to this prison population. The entire prison population. The policy we want, the management we want to implement, is a non-specific management for a specific group that interests you most. No, we're talking about something else, and I told you in my first speech. And I don't think you understand what I'm telling you. Not at all the Socialist Party (and I believe that neither the Nationalist Party nor the People's Party) is saying right now that we are going to steal the debate. What we're telling you, but you don't want to listen, is that the analysis, that analysis that you want to do in the presentation, is going to be done by the government, the department to which the planning belongs. And you're going to do it precisely with those you think you have to listen to and that you say in your justification. Because you tell me "You have to listen to all the points of view: law, the judiciary, sociology, psychology, criminology, social action, ethics...". Well, this is what you're going to do at that work table, that's what you're going to do. And when that working table has its analysis, you have no doubt that you will be able to access it and we will be able to discuss it here with an analysis carried out by the parties concerned on this subject. What happens is that you are giving more importance to format than to content itself. Then – you have said it, and you are right – the possibility of coming here to listen to people, if you think it necessary, we have it, and what we are trying to do is to organize a subject of analysis, of knowledge of the situation. I don't know if it's that important or not... Well, from his point of view, from his point of view, it is essential for analysis to know how many... I think you have asked a number of prisoners who are outside the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We are concerned about how many are within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in what circumstances they are, what specific groups... Because you told me about women; there we were told about mentally ill, we were told about ethnic minorities, we were also told about drug addictions, we were told about social exclusion, family isolation... We were told about many issues that seem to be not what you were interested in in this second round. Therefore, we are open, and we have always been open, to debate, to proposition and to accompany on the way... I believe that I have closed my speech by saying that the important thing is that we all share the philosophy and the objective of what needs to be done with this transfer of prison policy management, and that what we have to do is advocate good management. I don't share, and you know, specific things. Arguments we all have about why some things were done and what results they had, what were the attitudes of some and what were the attitudes of others. But, as I am not going to go into the past and I prefer to look into the present, as you said on Friday to the associations there (which was not what had happened so far, but we will see how we are able to face the future), I place you in your next interventions in this field to continue to do so. Look forward, not backwards.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u49	Dear Mrs. Tejeria. When I was hearing parliamentary colleagues explain things difficult to explain (Jone Goirizelaia's presentation is a logical proposal, it's normal; there's a complex problem that we have before us, such as the transfer of prisons and their management, and we have to agree), then, I remembered Michel Foucault's book, very nice, which I recommend, "Words and things." And Michel Foucault says that words, which are an element of abstraction of how to name things, sometimes have a lot of distance. I do not think it is necessary to invent words, let alone make artificial arguments to deny a matter that is logical, that there are going to be difficult problems, problems in society, problems in our political bases, problems in social entities. But what will happen when we put social inclusion centers in the middle of Donostia? What's the matter, that all kinds of political opportunisms are going to camp out wide? Or in Getxo, a center of social reintegration, of prisoners and prisoners who have left, because they are entitled to the third degree, what is going to happen?, that our middle classes are going to ask the heads of politicians? Because not only do they put Parliament; I'm going to..., I'm starting to notice these kinds of issues. Or do we not need to explain that we need another model that does not marginalise or chronize the problems of social exclusion? I think it's a complicated problem. In Elkarrekin We may be discussing this matter, we don't have the ideas finished. We are discussing this matter, reading Ararteko, reading the works of the School of Social Work, the Institute of Criminology... There are very suggestive proposals! If the PP and the PNV want to negotiate between them and avoid discomfort and compete with Bildu and such, to negotiate the transfer of prisons, do what you think is convenient! We think that's not the problem. The problem is that we are going to negotiate, manage, plan, organize the civil rights of more than 1,500 prisoners and prisoners in Euskadi and another 300 Basques who are outside. That's the problem! With another model of social reintegration, with another model that they do not repeat, that they recognize the victims, that there are mediation processes. With another model, say what Mrs Llanos says. We know that the laws are interpreted, how the Prison Law is interpreted, how prison health has already been transferred, how the same governing chamber of the High Court of Justice requested a prison surveillance court for Gasteiz... Is it your competence, or is it not your competence? I do not know if it is your competence, but it has already been requested by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, a new prison supervisory court for Gasteiz. I humbly believe – and in our organization we are very attentive to the proposals for example by Bildu, for example by the groups of prisoners, by the entities of social initiative, and of course by the PSOE and the PNV, we are very attentive – I think it is very proud to have very finished opinions on these issues. We will face political and social problems with prison management. I don't think people can imagine, even though they visit Catalan colleagues. In Basque society, we will have problems with putting in place our own management model, organizing civil rights and organizing socio-laboral processes and itineraries for the reintegration of prisoners and prisoners. Not only do we need to review all the punishments and punishments imposed on the Basque prisoners who are still around without tone or are, with overkill punishments that don't make any sense at the moment. Of course we're gonna have to check it out! Victims' associations, some of them are going to be against it. We know. The victims must always be heard, but they do not decide the policies. We decided the policies... Sorry, the government decides the policies. In my humble opinion, I think it is a mistake that the PNV does not participate, does not support the contrast of ideas, the discussions that we all have to have on this issue, and I would suggest that the PP is not so rigid. We know that when there are transfer processes, management processes are interpreted. Osakidetza is an example: compare yourself to Madrid or Andalusia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u51	Bai, eskerrik asko. Soon. Mrs Goirizelaia said that it is a different policy of government and country policy. Well, obviously there are two important issues in this area. The legitimation. The time has passed when some people said they represented the voice of Basque society. So, I think legitimation... The government agreement to which he referred, with regard to this differentiation, has sufficient legitimacy to carry out this work. And as for the goals, I don't know, you may think they're government; I think they're country. The government agreement says "Pilars to build a Euskadi with more and better employment, more social balance, more coexistence and more and better self-government." If you think this is government policy, then there you are. We believe that this is a clear declaration of national policy intentions. He commented that it has not been claimed; that he has asked questions and that the answer is that in this legislature it has not yet been claimed. I'd tell him he's been claimed on multiple occasions. I am not going to enumerate here now, but in the joint committee since 2001, 2004, 2006 and 2007... I'd ask you where you were when the PNV claimed it. Thirdly, the papers, which are for other things. Well, in a presentation for the Euskadi self-government update, as I have told you, what this is about is first and foremost the defense and claim of the recognized self-government for the update of the Basque statutory pact. If it is a priority for you, I think you have a proper forum to put it. As in the presentation of memory and coexistence. However, what they want to do is to flood this Parliament with debates on prison policy, divided and divided into different areas. And I will finish my speech by asking you two questions that I already know you cannot answer, which are rhetorical, but well, as they are rhetorical and as we will probably have occasion in another debate to do them again, you will answer them at that time. They speak of Catalonia, which since 1984 has had this competition transferred. I would tell you if you have wondered on the left why we still do not have it in Euskadi, thirty-eight years after the adoption of the Statute of Gernika. And secondly, he was talking about urgency, that things have to be done quickly. Well, I don't know. Now, as always, they arrive thirty-eight years late, and on top with hurry and urgency. The question is: How many parliamentary initiatives has the Abertzale Left presented in this Parliament, which is where the sovereignty of Basque society is reflected, or in the Congress of Deputies requesting the transfer to Euskadi? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 46; white, 0; Absencesion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u53	Original text is not allowed. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as it were made by parliamentary groups, concerning the census and rights of the people in the state of life. Discipline and final resolution. Miss Guanche, together Podemos, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u54	Hello. Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Gaur bizitegi-bazterketa eta errorldari buruz hitz egiteko gaude hemen. Baina ez error bera hellburua balitz bezala, baizik eta eskubideak lortzeko traina bezala. And I think it makes sense to start by defining what we mean when we talk about these two things. Residential exclusion is a manifestation of social exclusion related to access to the basic good of housing. It has multiple definitions and spaces from where to approach it. We can understand that we are referring, in speaking of residential exclusion, to that which covers any individual or family situation in which the accommodation needs are not met. This definition covers an extent that involves people engaged in a situation of dependence or in sub-holiday conditions, and it is said that it may have a structural or cyclical character. There are other definitions or theoretical approaches that say that residential exclusion from social exclusion cannot be isolated, and therefore are phenomena that go hand in hand. In Euskadi the most consensual definition, which is used both by the third sector, an unmatched driver of work both theoretical and practical with homeless people, and used in Basque institutions, which have been taking reference to advances in this regard, is the one proposed by Feantsa and known as the definition Ethos; a definition that seeks to establish a common language in order to be able to undertake consensual processes of work. This definition refers to four types: homeless people, homeless people, people with insecure housing, and, finally, inadequate housing. It is important to note that different situations are envisaged within the different definitions. For example, insecure housing includes living without a legal title, without a lease, or with family or friends unintentionally. On the other hand, when we talk about registration, we talk about the registration of all neighbors who live or currently reside in a municipality. According to the Local Regime Bases Act, which regulates this registration, every person living in the State has an obligation to register in the municipality in which he or she resides. And, having said that, I go to the motive of the initiative. We argued in his justification that in Euskadi there are 2,300 people in a situation of residential exclusion, focusing on exposure in those who are in the most vulnerable part of the categories, which are homeless people. In this sense, today we have an opportunity to highlight that, far from the collective imagination that associates residential exclusion with men in a street situation, for example, the latest report on residential exclusion highlights the gender perspective, as it reveals, for example, among others, the profile of covert sinogarism in women. This is one of the issues we can find: women in domestic work, women who share flats with third parties to build mutual support networks, women who deploy strategies to avoid the street, or use residential resources. This is one of the situations, but there are others. We know that the Basque administrations have taken important steps in this area. We know that progress has been made towards strategic work to address the problem of the homeless, and we also know that a Basque strategy for the homeless will soon be launched. And we applaud it, and, in fact, we are ready, as always, to contribute in what we can and can. We also know that since July 2016 there has been a protocol of institutional collaboration that contributes – textual leo – "to organize and formalize research, monitoring and analysis of situations of serious residential exclusion in the autonomous community". And we also applaud, and we are also ready, as always, to contribute in what we can and can. And we also know that within the multiple factors that affect residential exclusion there is a key element, which is registration. Because registration is a key to access to rights: the right to education, the right to health, the right to housing, the right to guarantee income, the right to social services, except in some cases where registration is not requested. And that is why we come here today to present a proposal based on three ideas. On the one hand, the need to address residential exclusion beyond sinogarism, with all the institutional elements involved and driven by the Government as an agent we understand essential in leading these issues, and taking as a reference that is from the Government from where the strategy of homeless people starts. We understand that this homelessness strategy is a fundamental leg for this work. We understand that it is also fair to take reference to existing spaces, which I did not know at the time of presenting the motion. The need to make a diagnosis is another of the ideas on which we put this proposal, with a broad view always on residential exclusion, understanding that access to registration makes it possible or hinders the exercise of citizens' rights and that it is a fundamental element to take into account in addressing this scope. And finally, to incorporate this diagnosis into the Basque strategy of homeless people, as it cannot be otherwise, because we understand that it is the fundamental work tool. And that this strategy also includes a technical look at registration and access issues. Because not having a home is a drama, a violation of rights is a drama for many people; not having a registration is sometimes much more important than not having a home, or at least so important, because it is a barrier to the exercise of citizenship rights. We understand that from there it is important to take a step further than has been done so far in addressing problems related to social inclusion. It is important to know what difficulties citizens encounter in accessing this key. According to Law 7/1985, Regulator of the Local Regime, all persons (I insist, all) must be registered in the municipality of habitual residence. We know that it is not for this Parliament to determine what the municipalities are doing or not doing, but the municipalities are included in this strategy, and the government is leading. We also know that a decision of the Directorate-General for the Coordination of Competences with the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities states that registration must be independent of legal-private disputes over the ownership of housing, physical or other circumstances affecting the home, even considering the total absence of a roof as one of the situations that can be, but not the only one. We also know that there are municipalities that have taken initiatives to implement the fictitious, social standard. We know that this is a solution, but we also know that this is not the case in all the territories of Euskadi. Furthermore, we understand that this work that we propose and agree today can help, on the one hand, to know how many people live here but do not count for anyone. The inter-institutional protocol states that there is a lack of statistics and specific studies that collect data on the incidence and sociodemographic characteristics of the homeless group. Since 2010, efforts are being made in this regard, biannual night censuses are being made. The existing difficulties in this area are being diagnosed, but they are not being addressed, or are not being addressed in the magnitude that we believe would be necessary, the problems of access to registration, which we believe would also help to remedy those deficits that we are named in the protocol. In addition, we believe that it is important, and that this can help to record the consequences for many people of this impediment to access to the pattern. And we also understand that the people who make up the committee have more than enough criteria to be able to propose solutions to these problems. And we also understand, and finally, that today we are taking a small step in the future improvement of these difficulties of access to rights, and from there it is up to me to thank, as it cannot be otherwise, the generosity of those who today have made an effort to find agreements. I think this is a good deal. I have already said in one of my first speeches in this forum that it is up to us in the area of social policies to seek agreements, not to draw revenues. We understand that it is up to us to improve what exists with a long look, with a short step, with a desire and with creative solutions, participated, in which all people have room and in which, of course, the horizon is to improve the conditions of people who, whether they consist in the records or not, are also our neighbours. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u56	Yes, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning. The subject we are speaking of today is by no means new, one of those questions which are always laid upon the table when we speak of the suburbs of life. First of all, we must remember that the census shuts and opens our doors, defines the boundary of not being, between being right and not being. It is a necessary condition for the execution of social rights which we have accepted: the health card, the social station, or the preparation of the apartment, as well as the rest. It depends on the census whether they are citizens or not. We mean, therefore, a tramiss which may be of the greatest importance in the lives of men, especially in the lives of those who have the greatest degree of need and avarice. Curiosity, as it does not often happen, is sufficiently clear in this matter. The Spanish Statist issued a resolution to manage the local census and to announce the technical instructions, the first in 97 and the second in 2015, and the solution is that the census is a legal duty. Besides, he mentions special cases of censusing in the third article of that resolution, and in article 3.3 gives technical instructions for censusing people without homes. He says, on the one hand, that those who are known as "infavienda" ought to be accepted as addresses, and on the other hand, he gives permission to be registered in a fictitious address, when the person has no home, and is known as social services. And even for that, it marks certain conditions. In this case, too, there seems to be a leap from what the law says to reality. Thus the institutions and interrogations of this matter have been communicated to the people who are in this state several times over and over again in a general recommendation made to the councils in 2011, six years ago. The interrogative clearly explained in this general recommendation that the legislation of the census was sometimes very different from the practice of municipals or municipals upon this subject. For the same legislation to be applied, they ought not to give prominent differences between the townships, but reality is quite different. According to the townships, different procedures and criteria are used to manage the census. Even if the demands which are made in some councils are easily sought for by the tramites, it may be said that in other townships the reverse is sought for, that is, it seeks to make the case difficult. And this state produces a course of security, and at least it is contrary to the principle of equality. Thus a tramite, which is very easy for many citizens, is much more consistent with those who suffer the most severe settlements of society. They have difficulty in obtaining this census, which is so important, that people who are most likely to be found in society. And though it be not pleasing to mention, the phenomenon of the extreme coast of life runs up in this part of the Religion: There can be about 2,000 people who are men and women in this situation. Last October, as we were informed by our account of the twenty-four townships of Erlaborium, there are 285 people living in our streets, and more than 1,500 in the centers. The people who are invisible, the persons who are uncomfortable, no doubt the citizens of the secondary rank, and not many of them, because they have no chance of censusing them. And what can be done in front of that? Well, no doubt the struggle against the phenomenon of a serious retreat is essential to the answers of public institutions and to bring about the reactional capacity of society. It is essential, in this sense, that the strategy and action of public institutions should be directed by a clear superior leader. In 2014, this legislature made a monographic dispute about homeless people, and after discussion the parliament demanded an integrated strategy to change the state of people without homes. In 2016 he had to remember the order made by the Congressional General, because they had not taken a step in the execution of that strategy, but now it seems that they are beginning to take steps, they may be small, but they are beginning to pass. Most of the Basque organizations have desired to penetrate into the discussions and reflection about the shores of life, and to face the problem in the Renaissance, to obtain successful cooperations between the organizations. This is the characteristic of these accounts which have been made in the various townships in the last few years, and of the conduct of the matter. And surely that protocol Mrs. Guanche mentioned, isn't it? In the community, it is the principal end of establishing a whole strategy of development, protocol, and the rest of the community, directed to the attention of men who have no housing. We hope the protocol won't be left alone in this, not only in this study and this photograph, and that we can go on a little further. The 2017-20's strategy has not yet arrived, but it has been announced among the strategics to come, and we hope now that this intelligent strategy, which will explain a clear commitment to these persons, will soon be present in our hands. Probably because these intentions and the first steps are firm, it's quite easy to get the middle cut of the day, I think. This strategy ought to put people and their rights in the centre, and to be able to talk about rights and as a whole, it is essential that they should examine and repair those questions about the census. The strategy is likely to fail if the primary citizen is not guaranteed. From the experiences which have been made in the several municipal councils of the Renaissance, it is therefore the time to suggest the contrivances and protocols of the inhabitants in the business of the population to be named in the census of the inhabitants of a people and a town. In this intention of co-operative organizations, a technical group of organizations has begun to work in the strategy of the homeless members of the Renaissance, and we believe that this group is probably the most likely to examine all the questions that happen around the census, and so we have received them in the middle. And, of course, it is essential that the consequences taken in this inquiry should be introduced into that homeless strategy which follows these propositions or methods of proceeding. Being on the strategy base. The steps, the efforts, the plans, the old ones have gone too slow, as far as they've been occupied without home, we haven't guessed. Maybe we haven't tried enough, and I mean the plural. The subject demands firm and bold steps, and I dare say that today's middle course may suppose a significant advance in this strategy of people without homes. From this examination and inquiry about the phenomenon, it supposes to pass to action, which is doubtless a pleasure. When the road was opened and these basic themes were directed, it would only be possible to bring in the strategy of 2017-20 people without homes, discuss and set them up as quickly as possible. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u58	Thank you very much, President. Today we are talking, at this point, about residential exclusion. The strong contraction of the real estate market as a result of the crisis in the construction sector, the adjustments in the financial sector, the mortgage over-indebtedness of the past, the level of unemployment and the increase in job insecurity are key factors that have increased the risk of serious residential exclusion for citizens in Euskadi. The socialists, aware of this deterioration, began to tackle this root issue, and we did so from the Basque Government by promoting mediation measures that would prevent evictions and that have been an example for other cities and municipalities and communities. But also, starting from the government led by Patxi López and culminating in the last legislature, we were able to agree on a housing law that guaranteed subjective law, which only last year, the first of its application, allowed six hundred families to have a roof that they lacked and that this year will see its definition through the corresponding decree. However, even though the right to housing has been addressed at the root as an essential right on which to build the rest of the rights, there are various reasons why there is a serious risk of residential exclusion in too many people. According to data available from July 2016, the number of people with severe residential exclusion in our Basque Autonomous Community amounts to more than two thousand, of whom a significant number sleeps on time or permanently in the streets of the Basque municipalities. The public authorities must be able to react with different levels of social, economic and assistance measures to deal with these situations of social emergency caused by human dramas arising from multiple causes and which are affecting a part of our society, giving rise to sinogarism and residential exclusion because they cannot access a permanent place suitable for living. It is essential to preserve and strengthen the current Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion, in the dual direction not only of guaranteeing the minimum income for all citizens, but also the implementation of effective inclusion policies. It is important to ensure effective universal and equal access to public services, especially for the most vulnerable, without any discrimination in access and on full equality of opportunity. Within the agreement of the government signed by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, it is pointed out that one of the objectives of this legislature is to consolidate the Basque system of social services. We attach importance to that. Our system guarantees the care of the needs of the most vulnerable people, and for this we count on the development of portfolios of services services; the Strategic Plan of Social Services 2016-2019; the Plan of Social Inclusion; the protocol of inter-institutional collaboration for the research, monitoring and analysis of situations of serious residential exclusion in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, signed in July 2016, and we are about to count on the Basque Strategy of Persons without Home 2017-2020, which we want to count on as quickly as possible. And within this strategy there is a commitment to the participation of the third social sector. I think we have many tools at the moment, so the Basque Socialists believe that it was not necessary to create a new inter-institutional committee between municipalities, parliaments, the Basque Government and Ararteko, as was proposed in the original initiative of the Elkarrekin Podemos group. The existing protocol is already interinstitutional cooperation for the research, monitoring and analysis of situations of serious residential exclusion in our Basque Autonomous Community. Nothing more is needed at this time, as since 2012 there has been coordinated work on research and analysis between the Department of Employment and Social Policy, the three parliaments of the three historical territories, the municipalities of Bilbao, Donostia-San Sebastián and Vitoria-Gasteiz, and the associations of Basque municipalities and provinces and Eudel, which can be subscribed by all the municipalities that want to participate. As a result of this collaboration, two joint reports have already been prepared on the situation of residential exclusion in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country: one in 2013, and one in 2015. The signing of this protocol, in which, I insist, such inter-institutional collaboration already exists, is aimed at providing a stable framework for this type of initiative, and is interlinked with the development of an inter-institutional strategy for the care of the homeless in Euskadi. It has been done in recent years, as has also been pointed out by the representatives of other parties who have spoken before me at the moment, which in recent years have been carrying out censuses of people in a situation of serious residential exclusion, taking as a reference the European methodology or typology Ethos, a European-level tool for the definition, systematization and classification of residential exclusion. The latter was carried out in 2016, and the counts are carried out, as this protocol marks, every two years. In addition, in the following year, the report on the results of the report is drawn up and, therefore, this report must also be carried out every two years, corresponding to this year, 2017, the preparation by the Basque Government. This protocol also establishes an interinstitutional technical commission for follow-up. That is why I think the compromise amendment is more consistent than the original initiative. And in that amendment we have made, as Mrs Guanche has pointed out, an important effort by all the different groups, both the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialists, and Elkarrekin Podemos and the EH Bildu Group, to reach the agreement that we are going to adopt today, where the interinstitutional technical committee is already working on the strategy of caring for the homeless in the Basque Autonomous Community to analyse in depth the needs of people in residential exclusion in relation to their access to registration, and once it has done so, to make the recommendations it deems appropriate. And also take into account these recommendations to incorporate them into the Basque Strategy for Homeless People 2017-2020. And it also highlights the importance and value of the protocol that is currently working. Of course, registration is the main gateway to the social protection system, but it is not the only one. Because, as Mrs Guanche has rightly pointed out, there is already an instruction in March 2015 from the Ministry of the Presidency of the Government of Spain, where she gives a series of technical instructions to the municipalities and where she points out – which Mrs Guanche did not say – the reference to homeless people, in the special cases of registration for cases of under-holidays or cases of homeless people. It also refers to what is considered a fictitious domicile for homeless persons who habitually reside in the municipality and who are known to the social services, and refers to the need for the preparation of a report by these social services, and may mark as registration the domicile that these social services may consider appropriate. However, the inclusion of registration within those recommendations, within the Basque strategy of homeless people 2017-2020, seems good to us, and that is why my group is going to vote, of course, in favour of the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt today, because it takes into account the work that is already being done in this area, avoids duplication, and incorporates the registration reference study to be taken into account. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u59	Thank you. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u60	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. We propose to discuss the census of men in a state of livelihood, and the rights of rights as well as the manner of being within reach. The problems of not being registered are published. It cannot be denied that it is necessary to be registered by some rights, as other spokesmen say, but it is true that it is recorded by 85% of people without a house. I repeat: 85% are registered according to the latest data. And another important data: it is not necessary, in all cases, to have the administration of the scabbard. No registration is required for the day-care service for persons in an exclusion situation, or for the night-care service, or for access to night-care centres to meet social inclusion needs, all of which are covered by the social services portfolio. In such cases, when you consider the severe condition of persons, you do not require a census period in order to receive services. But in other cases it is sufficient that they should be registered six months. I think it is important to bring this data to the fore in order to understand the problem we are dealing with to the right extent, because from the reading of the justification of the original GNP it seems to be clear that people who are homeless and in a situation of social exclusion, of serious residential exclusion, all of them are unregistered. Eta hori ez da da datuek esaten dutenna. It is also important to know in figures the basic data on care for the homeless in the Basque Country in relation to the social services system, in order to give us an overview of the situation and services that our institutions, together with the third sector, provide: there are 2,771 housing places, 1,555 day-care places, 2,104 dining places, more than 1,000 professionals and almost 1,000 volunteers. This amounts to EUR 45 million per year, of which 86 % is financed by public administrations. The Esquidal Autonomous Euskal, as far as the attention of people who don't have a housing in the state, is in the first place. Besides, Euskadin, as others have said, we have three laws, in which the right to the housing is considered as subjective, an income of attention and income against the social settlement. Moreover, the development and approval of the map and the portfolio of social services means a clarification of all that has to do with the guarantee of the subjective right to social services for people in situations of extreme social exclusion, which are often, or in most cases, those in situations of serious residential exclusion. As you well know, the three outlaws and municipalities are working on their respective social service maps, and within them, referring to social exclusion. This is a major step forward. Our organizations are concerned and occupied with the state of people who have no housing, and who are at the edge of society. They're in the field working on the theme between the organizations. The EuskoM, the forum and the council have studied the numbers and situations of people who live in the streets through a protocol, just like others have said. The third count was made in October 2016. Last Tuesday, the Governing Council also approved the signing of an agreement for the conduct of the survey on care centres for the homeless 2016 in the territorial area of the Basque Autonomous Community. The survey is aimed at centres providing accommodation, catering or other services to homeless persons free of charge or by paying a small amount, or in exchange for doing some work. And its objective is to know the characteristics of the centers, such as benefits offered, population served, sources of funding, human and financial resources, and street intervention. It is true that the institutions of Euskadi are working to improve the situation and attention to this group. They are aware and share with the third sector the need to go beyond the social services portfolio and to establish a strategic framework that will guide the work of the institutions on this issue over the coming years. There is a commitment from the Department of Employment and Social Policy to develop a Basque strategy against serious residential exclusion that covers the 2017-2020 period and is quite advanced. For this it already has an initial diagnosis, in which the situation of these people is analyzed and a comparison is made with other European states. As has also been said, an inter-agency group is working and advancing in relation to the diagnosis presented, as well as its basic characteristics and contents, having set guidelines that revolve around nine axes. The views and views of various social actors and organizations in the third sector, whose work we wish to highlight, have also been expressed. Even if it's not quite finished, we can already advance a few basics of strategy. It will be a strategy which will have general criteria for different institutions, for the purpose is to settle the course, and then each organization, knowing the general direction, will be able to perform the exact measures. The strategy must be founded on the development of the three subjective rights we have mentioned: rent to ensure housing, social services, and incomes. On the other hand, the explanation of different areas is considered as necessary; employment, social services, housing, health... The prevention will be performed, and not only attention to the interference, but it must be done beforehand to prevent the situation. It is clear, therefore, from all that has been said, that the Basque institutions are at work together with the builders, and that they have long since been able to give proper answers to those who have no housing. We didn't mean to protect the basic initiative, but we all wanted to improve the situation of people who are basically homeless, we've come to a middle course, those groups we've introduced and corrected. A transactional that implies a continuation of the preparatory work of the Basque homeless strategy and of the enhancement of the inter-institutional protocol signed almost a year ago and whose work we encourage to continue. Institutions and social agents, we are sure, will consider the problems of people who live in the streets as a whole, as a matter of importance, but not a single one. We wait for that job, as Mrs. Kotja said, where the subject will be treated in an integrated manner. And in conclusion, I would like to point out that specifically, and within the strategy that the Basque Government is finalizing, there is a guideline on ensuring that homeless people have access to citizenship rights by regularizing their situation, which will be the subject of development. I believe that within that guideline will accommodate all the problems related to registration, which is obviously important and that is why we are debating it here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen and members of the House present, good morning to you all. And good morning especially to Mrs Guanche, who brought us this initiative to debate today. You create in me an unlimited perplexity, Mrs. Guanche. I think it is very commendable that the aim of the initiative that has brought us on top of the table; that is, there is a group of homeless people, there is a group of people in a situation of residential exclusion who need us to worry about them. From there, I can say a few good words about your initiative, because I believe that the analysis of the cause of these people being in that situation is very simple. You, in the foundation of the initiative and in the speech you have given us here today, have the cause that these people are homeless and unable to access social resources (the most powerful in Europe, which are the ones that the Basque administrations lend to their citizens) in the fact that they cannot be registered, or that they cannot access registration, and are therefore not subject to those rights that our Social Services Act grants to persons residing in the Basque Autonomous Community. And that's not true. You know perfectly well that the legislation extends to these people so that they can access the standard. You know that bystanders, who are those who do not have a fixed residence, can access the itineraries and the assistance provided by both the deputies and the municipalities. Therefore, the cause that these people are on the street and that these people cannot access the social protection system that we have is not the absence of registration, in general. That is the cause of the debate you were focusing on, but then the motions for resolutions that you were making to us to adopt today's plenary did not reach any solution either. Because it really put on the table the existence of a group with problems, but it did not offer them any kind of clear solution, beyond that the Government is urged to create a commission (which already exists, by the way) and to continue working on a series of itineraries and solutions for these people, aimed exclusively at improving the registration of these people who live in a very difficult and very complicated situation due to very different and very different causes, as you well know. That is why we decided not to amend your non-law proposal at all, and we are going to reject it and vote against it, because we understand that the cause to which you gave those people's evils, and the solutions you proposed, served absolutely nothing. But I tell you that it creates perplexity in me because the agreement that you have reached and that you have signed your group with the rest of the amending groups of your non-law proposal does not propose any solution either. I mean, you bring us the focus on an existing problem, and the solutions you propose are none. He only says that we continue to do what is already being done. I therefore understand that this debate is completely sterile. We have not solved anything for these people who live in this situation of residential exclusion, nor are we going to put an end to the problems that this entails for them and their families. The three points of the agreement are the only ones that come to say (with a certain lack of enthusiasm, by the way) that the Government continues to work in line with what it has already been doing. That is, that the 2017-2020 strategy for homeless people is completed and that it has good objectives, and that the commission that is already functioning, then, continue under the same conditions. For that reason, instead of Elkarrekin We can bring us these kind of non-law propositions, let the parties that support the Government do so, which have already come down to defend the good that the Government is doing in this matter. It is that you have not even been a little ambitious or a little braver in demanding some improvement in the government's performance. I thought that this non-legislative proposal was a non-legislative proposal of demand to the Government or of government control, not of applause and pats on the back for what it is doing. Obviously, the agreement will also be signed by our group, because it says nothing wrong. He says you keep working on that line. And we will see in that strategy 2017-2020, when it comes to this House, when we are explained, then, what solutions are actually being proposed for a group of people who, I insist, you, I believe, with good intention, have brought us today to discuss, to debate, but certainly not to propose any solution to the problems that have led them to that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u64	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, let's see if you don't give me the cough now and I can make myself understand better. I'm sorry to cause you perplexity. I did not say, I did not mean, that the lack of registration is the cause of the homeless. I'll check the Journal of Sessions, because I'm already telling you that you've given me a cough attack while I was trying to make the speech, and maybe you might have misunderstood. I have specifically said that homeless people are in a situation of sinogarism precisely because of multiple factors and problems that have a lot of dimensions. In no case would I think it would be proud to say that the only problem they have is registration. In any case, I also do not have the pride of thinking that it is I who must come up with solutions to a problem that is extensive, that has been working from many areas and, of course, in which we do not have competence. What has been the more or less successful, more or less bona fide intention of bringing this initiative to this Parliament today? Of course, to focus on a problem, to put on the table and to bring to a political agenda an element that is important and that, of course, generates problems that are not solved. Mrs Arregi, I agree with you, and I am very glad that 85% of the people in a residential exclusion situation are, but 15% are not. For me, having a person sleeping on the street in Euskadi is a big enough problem to bring him to this House and debate him as often as necessary. I think that's for everyone. I believe that the intention of the initiative had to do with that, and I think we have to welcome, of course, that today we have reached this agreement, that it does not seem empty to me. I don't know if I'm too much or not brave, I don't know if I'm too much or not ambitious (so in general, I don't think it's too much), but I am a person who cares about these kinds of problems that in general, well, they look less or result less of candy and dish. I do not agree with you, I cannot agree with you that this initiative does not contribute anything. This initiative contributes to the continuation of what is already being done, which is being done well and it is important to recognise it, but also to extend an area of action that is not recognised in the protocol. And, well, from what Mrs Arregi has told us – who certainly has information about the strategy that the rest of us do not have – it is contemplated, but the protocol that is signed in July 2016 does not name registration. It is only appointed or intended to regulate in some way the studies and counting work that has been done for years, which, I insist, I applaud and it seems to me to be a very interesting initiative. We've been counting how many homeless people there are in Euskadi for a few years. Data varies more or less, profiles vary more or less, not too much. Now we have to find solutions. What comes to propose this initiative is that, within this search for solutions, we diagnose what are the problems of access to registration, because it is also a problem for people in situations of sinogarism, but in general, I insist, for people in situations of residential exclusion, which is a much broader framework than the mere street situation. Since that intention, I do not know if very or little correctly, but, of course, I believe that it has not only room, but that it is opportune to talk about these people and these problems in this framework and in this plenary. And, I insist, from the absolute recognition to the work that is well done, from the absolute recognition to the mechanisms that are created – which I insist, I did not know the existence of a mixed technical commission with participation of the third sector in the elaboration of the strategy, because it is something that is still in the oven, as he says – knowing that they exist, I am not going to maintain myself, by taking forward my pure and exclusive initiative, in which an element that already exists is created. So, yours is to take advantage of the work spaces there are, and certainly not to lower your arms and continue working honestly and eagerly to eradicate sinogarism in Euskadi. Because there is a possibility and it seems that today we also show that there is political will to do so, since there is a person on the street is important enough for us to be working here today to make it better for that to stop happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. EH Collect, representative of the team, Mrs. Kotja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u66	Yes, ma'am. Thanks again, members of the legislature. Well, Mrs Sánchez has listed all the laws that are contained in our protection system, but it is true that, if all these rights cannot be exercised, there is a population group that remains in the background. Because it is not true, Mr Arbulo, that all the people on the street can access these itineraries. That's not true. And, if not, you can review the requirements that outlaws and some municipalities have to access resources for long-distance itineraries to make insertion processes. You can check it out. Because, as Mrs Arregi said, there are some of those resources that do not ask to be registered in the municipality, but many others do, and, for example, to make long-term insertion processes, or the resources that cater to people who are listed, do require to be registered in the historical territory. I mean, that's not true of that statement you made here. And on the other hand, Mrs. Arregi was telling us... % 85 errordatua dagoela, eta egia da, bainsa % 15 ez, éta gure jarduna izan behar da denak babes-systemara ekartzea, éta ez batzuk bai eta besteak ez, ze bestela, hemen gertatzen ari den phenomeno bat, eta da "secondaryization of citizenship". Eta daude bi milako hiritarrak: errorldatuak dadenak eta errorldatuak ez dadenak. It is, of course, any institution that has as its will the one that has been signed in the protocol and that also appears in the different strategies, to address a strategy of care for the homeless, even if only of care and not of eradication, will have to put forward those elements that are basic to improve their condition of life, and one of them, which is not the only one, is the theme of the pattern. And it's not because we came down here to say it. It is said by the entities that work day by day and that encounter these limitations marked by the pattern, and it is said by a recommendation of Ararteko in the same line, which clearly says that they are two different things; that on the one hand there is the law, which indicates how to establish the procedures of registration, and on the other hand there is what is actually done in the municipalities. And there are municipalities that strictly comply with the law and facilitate registration even to people who are on the street, and there are others who are not. And the data is there too and they prove it. From the last survey, out of the latter count that was made on the street in these twenty-four municipalities, among the people who were detected on the street, only one in three was perceiving the benefits of the protection system. Only one in three. And that has its consequences. Of every ten people, there was one without a health card, and that also has its consequences on the living conditions of those people. I therefore believe that this is an issue which has already been made clear that there is a willingness to address and that we need to address it. But what we have to address is very aware that the process that has been done so far has been very timid, to say the least. Because, well, I believe – and I have said this before in plural – that this has not been nor is it a subject that is of first importance on political agendas. And in that I believe that we must act with a certain honesty, and it must be recognized that, within all elements, people in a situation of residential exclusion are not the priority objective of our policies. That is why it seems to me very important that agreement, that cooperation protocol, and also, as I experienced it closely and I know what it cost, it seems to me – and I was telling Mrs Guanche yesterday – that it had to be valued. And that it is an ideal forum, by the constitution, by whom they are in that forum, to work on that problem, because they are very aware of what it is. But it is not an initiative that says that the Government continues to do what it is doing, because this issue is not addressing it. What he proposes is that you go a little further. And of course what we proposed here is that we follow the guidelines of the Ararteko, and that, like the Irun City Council, for example, in 2016, protocols are drafted that allow this topic of the pattern to be solved in a homogeneous way, so that people, on equal opportunities, can access all those elements of the protection system that have been raised here. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u68	From the seat. Well, I think the subject is clear enough. I believe that an important effort has been made in the transactional amendment, which includes being able to include the issue of registration within the Basque strategy for homeless people 2017-2020, which is about to be finalised and which will soon be presented. And I think it also highlights all the work that has been done, since the protocol and years before, on the whole issue of counts and reports to look at the whole problem of people with serious residential exclusion. Well, I think one more step is being taken, and that is why we have made that effort to sign that compromise amendment, and we are going to vote in favour of it. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u69	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u70	Yes, from the seat, with your permission, Madame of the Parliament. I know that, if 85% are registered, 15% are not registered, but I explained it and I said that it was because of the justification of their GNP that it could be deduced that all persons in residential exclusion were not registered. And that was not true, and I thought that in order to understand the situation we had to give the data, which are the results of the last count made. And finally, to put in value the protocol of the organizations that had been signed last year, July, because it was important, he had difficulty in reaching that agreement, but I think they're still at work and they're there... Yaistin unos mimbres, some bases. And this will help to have a general strategy and even to have a taxation of the census and the whole plan of it, I believe, is that there are as few people as possible without a census, and there is none. But we all agree in this, and I believe that we are making advances, and that the Basque institutions have been working for a long time, and this is a little further progress, but things don't begin with each other when Podemos begins his initiative, but that the work has been in advance, and that they will be ready to work in advance. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mr Ruiz de Abulo... ? He mustn't speak. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-direction of the Eunciators who have signed it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u72	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition, as the Parlamentarian Group did, concerning the evading of the eucalogy of the eucalogy. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal is the round of the Basque Potion Group, Mrs. Bengochea has the word to suggest and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u73	Thank you, Madam President. What brings us here today to the Popular Group is a point that has been discussed more times, but we have no choice but to bring it back, because many times – not many times, but..., it is an axiom – we say that we want to attract talent to the Basque Country, we need talented people to come; but not just talented people: we need workers of all kinds to come, because we all know that we have a stagnant and ageing population. And, gentlemen, that is why we bring back the issue of the exemption in the evaluation of the Basque matter. There is a document called "Bases for the Linguistic Policy of the early 21st Century (Euskara 21)", which I would like to remind you of. I want to remind you of a phrase that comes out in it: "Not everything that is done in the name of the Basque is positive or adequate, nor to criticize certain actions in the field of the Basque is necessarily negative or unacceptable." And in this House, and to certain groups, it seems that trying to improve the coexistence of Basque with society is sacrilege, because it seems that certain groups have raised Basque to the rank of religion. And I am very sorry; we are not going to be delighted and we are going to continue to bring to this House issues on which we believe that politics towards the Basque country is not adequate. Why isn't it appropriate? Because, look, the Euskera can't make anyone suffer. No one should shed a single tear because of the euskera. Because if our euskera policy makes someone suffer, yes, that person will be damaged, but mainly the euskera will be damaged. I'm going to tell you something: Euskaraz amodioengatik, ez ez beast of the izango euskara. Amodioengatik. I still remember that AEK motto that I think did so much damage to the Basque woman, because I felt it as aggressive. It was "Euskraz eta kito". Do you remember? "In Basque, and it's over." Well, no, "Euskraz eta kito" ez: "Euskraz amodioengatik". And for the euskera to prevail among us as something loved it is necessary that no one sheds a tear for it. And, gentlemen, there are people who suffer with the Basque. Especially with the Basque people who come to live among us and who come with... Let's imagine, we want to bring people of merit, people of value, but, I mean, any worker is supposed to be welcome in the Basque Country and have children, let's say, twelve, thirteen or fourteen years old. Well, those people and those kids, the euskera, it makes them suffer. I'll give you the clear example that we bring here today. A person arrives with a child who is, for example, in second of ESO. And what does the exemption decree say? What does the exemption decree say? Well, that kid has to study Basque. Until then we can agree, you have to study Basque. But it is not evaluated for two years, and that non-evaluation for two years can be extended to four. Then, of course, that creature who arrives in second of the ESO, studies Basque in second, third and fourth of ESO, and goes to the Bachelor. He started the Bachiller, and studied in Basque in first Bachiller, but from that moment not only studied Basque, but was evaluated. It reaches the selectivity test, and has to be evaluated in Basque. And what's that supposed to mean? He sees his middle note and, therefore, his future threatened. And why do you see her threatened? They'll say, "Well, four years is enough to speak in a language!". And I say, no. Well, I'll tell you from experience. One goes to the United States or England and spends a year and can speak English, but let's be realistic: that child his daily life will do it in Spanish, his family life will do it in Spanish, his leisure life, watching television and watching cinema, will do it in Spanish, and a language as complex as Basque is not learned in four years when he is restricted to the teaching area, as to be able to evaluate himself from Basque or in Basque and not to harm the rest of his subjects. That's what's happening. I have been reading the various speeches, and I will now address the Socialist Group. Mrs Celaá said that precisely that was happening, and she changed the decree, and made a small section where the exemption could be greater. But that decree is updated every year by resolutions of the council, and the resolution of the councillor that we have in force for this year is that if one is incorporated in first or second of the ESO at the end will have to be examined of Basque in the Baccalaureate, and will have to do so in the general test to access the university, which has gone through different nomenclatures but which survives. And what's happening too? People who last year enroll in Castro, people who last year enroll in Logroño (the ones in the Ocón area), people who last year enroll in Miranda de Ebro... These people are suffering. And if there's anything we need in the Basque Country, it's that people have an affection for Basque. They will not pretend that the degree of masochism comes to those people having affection for the Basque! And they count it. And then I imagine, then, an excellent scientist, or an excellent doctor, or an excellent professor, who has sons or daughters of twelve, thirteen or fourteen years old and thinks of coming here, and he has to choose between coming to the Basque Country or going to another autonomous community, or even to another country, because, of course, he's going to say "I'm not going, because it's subjecting my children to an extra stress." And that is true, gentlemen, the fact that the population does not grow. I mean, that's the first data we have: the population doesn't grow. People come here very little. So, what we are asking here is that that exemption from assessment be extended. I have looked at the amendments that you have tabled. Those who have presented the Socialist Party and the PNV, therefore, put on more or less warm cloths. The one from Elkarrekin Podemos seemed quite adequate to me. But do you know which one scared me? I was afraid of Euskal Herria Bildu, and I'm going to tell you why. You know what it says in the second point? (Berbotsa) No, no, Mrs. Ubera, EH Bildu has introduced... Zuk ez, bath hour dagoen Juanjo Agirrezabalak edo... Ez dakit, barkatu. He says that "we must ensure that the Basque language will be the usual language in the relations between pupils and pupils at the end of the ESO". So, if anyone asks, Mrs Ubera (of course, this amendment I have read; it may be from another point similar to this, but I have read it), if you ask to ensure that Basque is the usual language between pupils and pupils, do you know the same as who you are? They're the same as Franco. Same. How will the Basque Government ensure that Basque is the usual language between pupils at the end of education? Same, same, same as Franco did. Then, gentlemen, I ask you to reflect; to reflect knowing that the Basque woman cannot cause anyone to suffer, because, I say to you, if the Basque woman causes someone to suffer not only that person, she suffers the same Basque woman. And so, please, I ask you for a receptive stance, which will be good for everyone. It will be good for the Basque, it will be good for the people affected, and it will also be good for the people who have as their project come to live among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u74	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. The team that issued the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u75	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. Congressman. First of all, the only group that has tabled an amendment has been us, and I am concerned that they have seen it in a positive way, because, of course, the meaning was absolutely contrary to what was presented here by the People's Party proposal. But, well, I explain it now during the speech. Once again, we are again discussing an issue that the People's Party likes very much, despite the fact that it is moving away from the concerns of most, not to say the whole of the citizens of Euskadi. Once again, we need to discuss our own language, the Basque language, so that the People's Party can advertise domestic consumption and try to raise a conflict debate where there is no such debate. Again the umpteenth attempt to confuse the citizens with sterile debates, and again – as I have already told you, Mrs Bengoechea – will have us faced in the defence of the Basque language, our own language, and also in the defence of the professionals of Basque public education, whose training task in favour of the normalization of the Basque language never deserves continuous public recognition. In this case, concretely, we must speak of the evaluations given in the Second Education about the studies of Eucauration. As we all know, these exceptions are given in certain particular cases, and in certain states well defined. In your proposal, Populous party demands the government to change the regulations by which these exceptions are measured, so that students who are built up to the DBH, may have evaluations in an unlimited state. Exemption from evaluation, and the word indefinite, have been the two concepts that have particularly drawn our attention to this initiative, and that have, of course, led us to submit an amendment to the whole. On the one hand, the opinion of Podemos is that the best way to learn is by evaluation, so that it seems a delay to us that the evaluation is not. We see the continuous evaluation as an instrument of the improvement of the students, and therefore we believe that there are as few exceptions as possible. As far as we know, the evaluation is compatible with the various methods of study, these all paying attention to the capacity and necessities of each student, to the study of the eucalycation, and the Basque schools for their incorporation. However, we are aware of the existence of cases that require more differentiated treatment, including the euskera exemption. In this sense, we see no inconvenience in revising the current norm, but always with the aim of improving the approach of the euskera to the student. Because is the problem really solved only through amendments to this regulation? What is the real problem when there are boys and girls who don't learn Basque in four years? The rules? And most importantly, that these people acquire the communicative and linguistic competence to communicate in Basque, do you think it depends on the modification of a regulation? In other words: are we interested in the student learning Basque, communicating in Basque and living in Basque, or are we interested in the student approving Basque? The current legislation already provides that students who join any school in Euskadi from other educational systems will be exempt from the assessment of the Basque language for two years, which can be extended exceptionally up to a maximum of four years. And the People's Party again insists that the rules do not cover other circumstances. Well, let's see what these cases are and see if the problem is solved with greater flexibility of the regulations in extreme cases or, for example, with greater investment in resources in linguistic policy so that the student who needs the most support in Basque has it. If this be the case, let us consider the reasons and the power of all children for four years, and examine their reasons. But we don't think this problem solves itself with evaluation tests. As we said at first, there is no study without evaluation. Let us prepare effective solutions for these students' ability to learn to the eucalyptic. Let's add more resources to the schools of education, and let's not lead the matter to regulations. It's very difficult to make a rule of all cases. Undoubtedly, it is the responsibility of everyone here to stand firm in the defence of the Basque language, and this involves supporting the student in his or her learning, not keeping him or her exempt. We must take care of our cultural heritage and bet that the linguistic rights and coexistence of the two official languages are priority objectives in linguistic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u76	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Passing over to the non-correction teams, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u77	Well, good morning. Previously, Mrs Bengoechea, the Socialist Group has not tabled any amendments. It will probably be from the previous legislature, when this issue was discussed. Well, anyway, going to what we're dealing with, we think the exemptions are the exception to the rule. The cases are scarce, fortunately, but they exist, it is true. What can't be given is either of the two extremes: if someone in a window tells a student or his family "Take them to Miranda de Ebro, or Castro", badly said and badly done, but if any student, by their origin, refuses to be educated or to receive education in Basque, badly done too. The Euskadi Statute of Autonomy states in its article 6 that the Basque language, the language of the Basque people, has the official character of language in the Autonomous Community together with the Spanish, and that all its inhabitants have the right to know and use both languages. Specific solutions must be given to the specific case in question. And there was already a modification that we introduced in the decree. Because Article 5 of the decree as it comes out in 1983, as you know, said that every child who had already arrived in primary school was exempt. That was in 1983, and since then linguistic policy has been evolving. The new text that was introduced in the second final provision of that decree reads: "In accordance with the provisions of Law 10/1982 of 24 November 1982, Basic of Standardization of the Euskera, the student of the various levels of non-university education who has started his studies in an educational system that does not include the area or subject of Basque language and literature, or which duly justifies his unusual residence in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, may be exempted from teaching or evaluation". We have introduced these two concepts, because we do not want anyone to be exempted from teaching except exceptional cases, such as spending here six months, or a year, or arriving here in the first place of Baccalaureate. Therefore, one issue is to be exempted from teaching, and another very different is to be exempted from evaluation for a certain period of time. Therefore, what we did was to encourage the student to be in the teaching of Basque, Basque language and literature, in the terms determined by the Department of Education. In any case, in this regulation, which will seek to ensure that the largest number of pupils follow the teaching of Basque, account shall be taken, among other factors, of the educational level at which the pupil is incorporated, his or her academic history and the socio-linguistic characteristics of the environment. That is already reflected in the current decree. Therefore, the weighting was standard, and there is a limit, and it is that this person may actually be at risk of not being able to follow his studies, and that is where the alarms are lit. But we have to trust that the education system, which is in the hands of professionals... However, this fact does not imply that the person who joins the Basque education system, who has to work with or in two co-official languages, is automatically exempted from the teaching of Basque. We must go along with it with individual plans, because that is what the teachers of linguistic reinforcement are for, and that is what the educational services, the educational inspection, are for, to determine the circumstances relevant to the case. For this we also have the linguistic weighting. We have four-year-olds who have come here two years ago and speak euskera perfectly because they are in a process of natural immersion; however, if you take a child to a sociolinguistic area where the euskera is not spoken so much, you will certainly need much more support and support in school. But school can't do anything either. School is essential, school is crucial, but it can't do everything, it shouldn't. And so far the school has been doing everything or almost everything. And we can't deny that the euskera has been incorporating and formalizing itself with speech and use, and that's why we think that school doesn't have to do everything anymore. Because it is true that school formalizes thought and therefore requires language, but the end of education is not just linguistic knowledge. Language is fundamental; it is not only communication: it is culture, it is symbol, it is heritage. And language also configures thought, but it certainly cannot be the only objective of language, that of teaching us languages. Therefore, as we argued at the time, we are doing it again now: we have to establish weights, and that possibility of weighting exists in the decree, so that alarms are lit when there are cases that actually result in a specific exemption. But regulation as it is, unless it is applied over and over, I think it's worth it. Because, according to Mrs Bengoechea's proposal, the student who goes directly into ESO would automatically be exempt. And I don't think so, because if you enter first of the ESO you have six years ahead to learn a language, and more at those ages. Because it is clear that it is not the same thing to enter first of the ESO as in fourth of the ESO; that is why weighting is important, and that weighting is what educational services do and should do. What would be objectionable is for a student to go to a window and tell him directly to go somewhere else. That would be denouncing, of course. The child should be caught, his or her peculiarities seen, the specific characteristics of the case known to him or her, and he or she should be cared for according to his or her needs. What you can't tolerate is that you're simply told that you don't have to go to euskera classes. And why not, if it is also allowed not to be evaluated until it acquires a reasonable level! Because that is also reflected in the current regulations. In education the norm is for what you want to do well, but without allowing those who want to escape the norm by the margins to escape without proper justification. Because there are also students – he will agree with me – who are going through the euskera, because they only study it in school, because their environment is not euskaldun, but they are not exempt from evaluating themselves. Or someone who's passing by, and then who knows when he'll be back in this country. The configuration of the Basque educational system has its special characteristics, it is true; it is a bilingual system, and we have to respect it as such. What needs to be done (in that I give you reason) is to control and ensure that the norm is applied with excellence in an efficient and reasonable and just way, so that it is not causing greater harm. And, therefore, I believe that with what I have said so far, Mrs Bengoechea, you will understand that our group is not going to support your initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u79	Good morning again. This is the law! This isn't a bar, this isn't a bar discussion, and we have to read things, and knowing what each one presents and what he doesn't do. But everything here is worthless. This isn't serious. We are told of the suffering of erosa. Excuse me? Excuse me? Depends on the area. What about math? What about the young men? What about physical education? What about plastic arts? "Oh, there are no mathematical people around me. It's a math crew that makes a few headaches... "I don't know. "My environment is not English to ask for. The Englishman's head hurts... What a lot of suffering." Please, please! What are we talking about? Don't you want the official language of our country to be eucarated? Well, here's the discussion, let's plan it: "We don't want it to be the official Escan Language." Let's go argue about that, and point it out! But don't bring disguised disputes on account of your hatred for the Basques. Please! And then you teach us lessons about the attachment and love of the Basques, the only aim of it when it is lost to the eucalyptus, as your predecessor attempted. And as you can clearly see, you're still descended from these fascists, with the same fascism, and you're just trying to disappear into the rest of your life. Then, if you would please, the discussion is clear and clear. We won't walk from what circumstances and that, and we'll end up sooner. But if we have arrived at this point, it is because EAJ has allowed them to meet with such disputes, and has given them such a wind, and because, after all, we are discussing matters which ought not to be disputed. And some things are unacceptable. Is he an official Basque or not? It's official and dot! Well, if he's an officer, he'll have to be on the same level as a young man. I don't understand why we're here. Now the subject: Why should there be exempt from eucaluation? Why should not youth be exempt from evaluation? What about maths or other competition? Why don't we exempt them from our evaluation? We are again facing a political proposition against the eucalyptic. From the educational point of view, it has not yet reached a more pedagogical point of view. Because the education system has foreseen within itself, it uses specific adaptations. Education in itself, because it has been foreseen by its regulation, is bound to a particular plan, bound to evaluation, and connected with appetite, but without exception. It's evaluated, and it's conditioned, but it's a chance to adapt to a plan of adaptations. That a student needs a mental adaptation in mathematics? It does. And in connection with this adaptation, it evaluates and also has the opportunity to get socialization. The same is true of euchares, youths, and other matters. Then how is it possible that all the lessons should be studied by euphoria, and, after having overcome them, they should be exempt from rest? That's what you're planning, and that's what happens with the students in the D model. That's what happens. It has neither head nor foot, and most of our systems are D models. By order of Curriculum, the competition for communication is fostered to the treatment of languages. How then can there be exception in a single language which constitutes competition from a pedagogical and logical point of view? It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. When and how does the problem come into being? Well, the problem is that when Celaá was the head of Education, against education criteria and political reasons for the same reasons, but not for educational reasons, it's the same because of the fact that you're a 1947/2012 Decret, the 3rd of April, the Decretion Officers made by Euskel, and the Security of the Basque Steps on the Titles, and the Way of the Certificates, when it was accepted. When this decree was approved, trouble begins and I'll explain. Therefore, what ought to be done is to abolish this decree. This description has been debased and normalised today by all other systems and means and contrivances which education system has by rule and by law. Thus, in the course of the last few years, all the problems which this decree has produced would soon cease. And this is added by LOMCE, that to acquire the title of the Batxiergo we must overcome the eucalyptic and youthful and mathematics, and that the first and second best of all must be overcome. So the problem's not for eus. It's not a matter of eupcharation. Now, if you have any difficulty with the Basque, let us discuss it, but not other things. What we cannot do is to give up the guilt of consequences produced by different governments, and to attribute it to the Euscha. The problem is in the wrong rule. So that they've entered into the power of seeing, and this decree is the result of what's going on in the schools in common. A number of students have the exception of two years' evaluation, and then, as you have said very well, Mrs. Bengoeche, that's a problem for two more years. What's going on with that evaluation violation? That this exception is being used to be exempted from learning to support, often with the complicity of schools and professors. It's more convenient for them not to come into class. Then they don't learn to rest. And this evaluation exception is becoming an exception to learning, and that's what's happening in everyday schools. Then what's going on? According to the age of students, if students enter the second level of DBH, then they are exempted from two years and the other two years' extension, and then they are found with difficulties in the acquisition of appetite. Besides, other perversions must be added to this: The Board of Education connects the supply of professors of language art to the exceptions. This is to say, that the means of further support are connected with the exceptions, and not to the short-sighted adaptations, or the proper curriculum. What's that got? For the last few years, when you tell us that there are no reductions and restrictions, and the HIPI Squares, the squares of professors to strengthen the language, have been reduced. And not only that: The most cultural authority has almost entirely disappeared. And what I'm going to say is not politically correct, but I'm going to say it. Do you know who's asking for exceptions? Well, there are exceptions for high-level A standard families, high economic class. Just them. The lower orders of the A standard and the middle families, the average families that you defend so much, do not require an exception. And this whole thing is being created in the schools in the day by this decree. So let's be serious and let's not see the problems where they aren't. And if there be any other discussions to be proposed, let us make a clear and clear discussion of it. As you can see, because that's what's in the background here. You want to talk about the Basque Officialship? Let's talk, let's argue. Do you have to be an official Basque or not? And EAJ is going to have to give his opinion and stop breaking the Popular Party and breathing for once. Such discussions, each of them may have his opinions, each of them may have his ideology. But it seems to me that all the languages of the world, all the culture of the world, all this multiplicity, which is so proclaimed, must be respected. And we must be respected by the Basques, just as we respect those who speak of the Spanish man when they speak of the 'Banuper'. That's what we think is basic and one of the minimum in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team, Your Honor, Your word is Yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Ubera, you use anything to attack PNV. This equipment has been brought by PP, so that we have not brought any bellows. Mrs Bengoechea, indeed, it is not all in favour of the Basques, as it is not all in favour of bringing anything here to this House without having studied it before, contrasted it and analysed it well. It says "Euskera from love." We agree, but only with love can't get things done. And, as the song says, "want me less and talk to me more"; esaten du, "maite nazazu gutxiago eta enjoys nazazu gehiago". We know very well, Mrs. Bengochea, that we don't know what suffering is because we don't know a language. We know a lot of people who need an assistant because they don't get along with the scum so they can go anywhere and make us look like fools on top of them. So don't come here to tell me about the suffering stuff because we're the cannibals. There are many assertions that the popular group used to suggest to him that are not right at all. And please don't bring things like that around here without hiring them. First of all, we have no teaching of eucatitude. It's called "Euscal Language and Literature." Secondly, this doctrine of the Euscha, which you say, has its origin in the law of Euskian law, which received an alliance in this part of the legislature, and has been a boundary to the normalization of the Basque Act. Exaten Horrek law of the Euskadiko herritar guztiek hizkuntza officiala ezagutu eta ebiltzeko eskubidea dutela, bai ahoz eta bai idatziz. And this right is also contained in a law that will be familiar to you, the LOMCE. The thirty-eighth additional provision, which is incorporated into the LOE, reads: "1. The education authorities shall guarantee the right of pupils to receive education in Spanish, the official language of the State, and in the other co-official languages in their respective territories. The Spanish language is the language of instruction throughout the State and the co-official languages are the same in the respective autonomous communities (...). "2. At the end of basic education, all pupils shall understand and express themselves, orally and in writing, in the Spanish language and, where appropriate, in the relevant co-official language. "3. Education authorities shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the use of the Spanish language or co-official languages in teaching is not a source of discrimination in the exercise of the right to education. "4. (...) Educational administrations must guarantee the right of pupils to receive education in both official languages (...)". And in the new thirty-ninth additional provision, which is also added by LOMCE, it says: "The subject of Co-official Language and Literature shall be evaluated (...) and shall be taken into account (...) in the same proportion as the subject of Castellana Language and Literature". You know that he's been in the Spanish state since December to fill up LAMCE, until he's got a social and political pact in the matters of education. But we didn't think it would be the popular Basque team that would break that law. Thirdly, The Chief of Education gives an account of the conditions of securing them every year by a decree, and in these instructions it is plain that the Directors of the Schools may claim the exception which evaluates, to prolong for another two years the generacar. To evacuate, not to learn. And he always says: "In the second education or in the Batxiler class, to consult the Basque Literature and the Language Department first." And this ought to make a report on the euscal education system in which, according to the number in which he entered, the student entered into the different groups, considering the academic history which this student has brought with him, and the social features surrounding him advise him to do so. So, it doesn't seem to be exempted from the evaluation of Basque Language and Literature during the four courses. Or is it excess? Heinera, lau urte horietan ikastetxean norbanakoen lanerako plan bat egin beharra dauka ikastetxeak. An individual work plan with each student is what the school has to do with that student so that it can then be incorporated into the level required by the curriculum. So, you, Mrs. Bengochea, what do you want? After all the effort we've made for normalization in 35 years, we're just exempted from the Second Education students? If that's your goal or what you're asking for, I don't think you're familiar with your education system and the goals you want. But I think you know them. So why'd you bring the proposition here? And from all the respect of the world I say to you: that in the twenty-first century we must consider that the most elementary principles on which our existence as a country is based can be removed in such a crude and provocative way, shows that for you Basque is still a hindrance from which we can dispense. Why, answer me, are you also going to propose that a student of French, Chinese or Romanian mother tongue who joins the Basque educational system should be exonerated by the knowledge of the Spanishman? Or do you think that every student in this country in your home lives alone in Spanish? Or do you think everyone speaks Spanish? Because both Basque and Spanish are co-official languages. There are many reasons which, following our good sense, may be opposed to your proposal, and we shall oppose it. We can take a breath nioke drink amendment Hobetu daitekeela idazketari begira, bathe hori zuen kontua da. Bakarrik esango nizueke "depending on the linguistic environment" esaten duzuenen, hori hobeto azaltzen da aipatu dudan sailburuaren salbuesteko dekretuan, ze hor esaten du –eta erdaraz esango dut –: "The student enrolled in compulsory secondary education or in the baccalaureate" – Basqueraz esan dut –, "before consulting the Department of Basque Language and Literature, will report on the need for this exemption", and cites the circumstances. And we must take into account the educational level to which, on the one hand, your academic history (the student's or student's), or the socio-linguistic characteristics of the environment have been incorporated. You say "with the aim of improving the approach to the Basque". Well, gutxi iruditzen bazaizue lau colte ematea, esango diguzue nola hobetu dezakegun hori. And then he said, "Incompathecybilitious world con luxitia l'üística, la educación." Thank God, the language and educational politics of this country have always been well-adapted, and that's what we've accomplished. So this is for all of us, let us try to get along the path we have hitherto done, for we have accomplished a very good result, and let us have a share in our co-worker's government for the eucalyptus to advance and become normal. And don't forget, it's just school can't get the normalization of languages. We invite you to be accomplices in the government's initiatives, to get along with everybody and everybody. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing in responses, representing the American Basque Group, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u83	Let's see, I'm going to answer first to the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party when she says things like, "But you think every house speaks Spanish?". Well, the data I have is from the same board. It seems to me that only 27% of houses have Basque as a colloquial language. Moreover, in the last report of the Euskadi School Council, two points have been dropped. And I don't know how you don't wonder why this happens. I just don't get it! It turns out that it has dropped two points, and you have the report of the Euskadi School Council: I think that from 26 to 24 families who in their homes have as their language to convey the Basque language have dropped. And you've been here for 40 years trying to turn the situation around, and this doesn't get any better. Aren't you guys doing something wrong? I wonder. Of course, I don't know... As in all places, of course, Euskadi is a plural society, but when you describe the generality of Euskadi it is that I do not recognize it. It is that you go by number of places, where most of the population is concentrated, and people choose to speak in Spanish! And that's not hating the Basque; that means we have to do it another way. I will tell the Pastor that you have read me all of Isabel Celaá's speech – because I had read it too – practically word for word, in some pieces. And it's true that the decree says what you say it says, that you can make those exceptions, but do you know what happens? That the implementation of that decree is regulated every year by a resolution of the councillor – I have it here; I will not read it to you but I have here on the mobile the resolution – and that resolution does not contemplate any of those possibilities that you say. That resolution is breaking and tearing. So, when you asked me some questions... Nobody here is talking about not teaching Basque, of course not, but we are talking about these very few cases, for which we are asking not to be evaluated in the last test, in the test of access to the university, because they are going to lower the average. In the few cases. To Mrs. Rebeka Ubera, look, I don't answer to judgments of intent. "Because you must hate the euskera...", those are judgments of intent that you make. So, what are we going to do to him! I, as I think that's not a good way to do politics, don't. But I am going to tell you – and this is not a judgment of intent – that you prove to be tremendously cruel to those people, very numbered, for whom the same decree already reserves a possibility, a possibility that is covered by the resolution. I mean, you can't compare me math with Basque, and literature (you're right, literature, and language in Basque). You can't compare it to me, because probably that person who has come from outside has already studied mathematics, has already studied all those subjects. What's new to that person is precisely the euskera. And Basque is not an easy language. To speak in Basque you have to think differently: syntactically it declines, it does not form with prepositions; more similar to Latin and in some respects to German. It's hard. So, what I'm asking you to do is not be cruel with those four or five cases that there may be every year, of people who have come to be among us. And I think that if we want them to love the Basque we must first teach it to them (no one asks for an exceptionality for teaching), but for that final assessment, those four or five people, based on the decree, because I'm not even asking for a new wording, because that exists in the decree... What I am asking is that we ask the lady to advise that when she makes her decisions, she should take into account three or four people who have that problem and that, please, it should be resolved in implementation of that decree. And finally, we can. I am very glad that you have explained yourself now, but the literality of your amendment, as I said, is not so bad: to bring the Basque closer, etc., etc. Thank you, Madam President. Lehenedakariak : Eskerrik asko, Bengoechea andrea. Together, Mr Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u84	Yeah, cut it short. From the seat. First, the Lady of the Great Mountains. We have clearly the answer to improve the approach of the eucalyptus; to place more resources in the development and more resources of the lyrical politics, to make these people learn in better situations, where they have problems with the study of the eucharist. We have spoken clearly, and I also say to Mrs. Bengochea: Without evaluation, there is no learning. And in the proposition represented by Populous Party, it is said that there are evaluations in an infinite manner. Yes, that's what he says in your proposition: that they should be in infinite form, the prejudices of evaluation. And that's not acceptable, not just methodology. Even the arguments you're presenting are that it's difficult to resist. Well, if it's hard to resist, that's a bacteria. It is true it is a difficulty, but it cannot be the only crime to change a law or a decree or change a regulation in this sense. We clearly have more resources to establish in the literary politics, more or less necessary resources, in the educational centres, but there must be evaluations. And there are some exceptions which are already in rules, and which are in particular cases, and which are well defined, and these exceptions may be maintained. But it is impossible to plan without limiting evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u85	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Pastor? He doesn't have to take the word. Mrs. Ubera? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u86	Bengoechea andrea, "cruel", no, "Cruella de Vil", hementxe. Look, children have no problem, less prejudices than adults, less difficulties, less obstacles to learn anything. Spanish, mathematics, I don't know where to speak, they don't care, and they learn it easily. What's Basque? The Basque is a different language, like a young man, like a Chinese, like English. We're all different. And here, we need to know how to respect and accept this difference, and whether we like it or not, it's official in this town, as it is a young man. So what's the problem? You want us not to be an official Basque? Let's discuss it. Let's argue and argue. Everyone's going to give their own opinion and vote, but education doesn't matter. There is no pedagogical problem. He's not here. They've caused trouble, and Mrs. Céla, who caused trouble, put the 2012 decree into effect. For when there are problems, in mathematics, in youth, there are correlated adaptations in any area. There are adaptations. Without any exception, it adapts to the characteristics of each individual, evaluates and gets the title. No problem. Problems make this exception, and, as the system of evaluation is now built, it has no sense of what is planned. Why don't we save the maths? Spanish? Let's go down to the pool. For the same reasons. For the same reasons. So, your proposal shows that there's another discussion in the background. And if you want to discuss this with all naturalness and normality, let us discuss it but not from here and there, where there is no meaning and no trouble. So, less love-words and more love-making.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The word is yours. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u88	Mrs. Bengoechea, there are no hard tongues, that's a myth. All languages are difficult if you don't know. And I'm just gonna give you two data, and I'm done. In thirty years, the percentage of Bilbao's neighbours who know and know Basque is 51.2% of the total population, and in all neighbourhoods as well. And Euskadi has won in twenty-five years 212,000 speakers. Therefore, things have not been so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table, 72; votes given, 74; supporters 9; opponents of the opposite, 65; white, 0; abstations 0, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u90	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for the full correction of the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 11; the contrary, 63; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-15.u91	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two-fifteen in the afternoon.
