ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I mean that the sixth point has been left to another by the author's application. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Comrade Irune Lazino Eucinos, a member of the community of the legislatures, made to the Governor of the Public and Autogobernus, the working and co-operative life of the working and family of the workings of the Basque Public Administration." Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u1	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Erkoreka, on the 16th of January, you came to present the principal and most important workers and challenges of your department to the Board of Organization, Security and Ruleship. You said during that show, among many other issues, that Euko MUDM will predict a new job bill. And in making this law, the other was to consider the consequences of the general administration and of its autonomous institutions. This principle of equality has given rise to clear conclusions. On the one hand, public administration is highly feminized, because we women are more unstable and also less charged with public administration than men. But this difference between the freemen is not, of course, because there is wealth between women and men, but when they have the opportunity to co-operate in the life of the house and the life of the work in a manner, because they receive a lesser quantity and offices of money. Besides, you said that the 87 women are asking for the measure of 87 women for a union of work and family life, especially in order to provide for relatives or minors. One of your section's hinges will be to maintain the equality of men and women in the Basque Administration, and it is clear that the law of public employment must lead us to this equality. That's why, Mr. Erkoká, we'd like to know the size of the Euskal Police' work and family lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. All right, Mr. Erkokick, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear madam, in the course of our recent legislation, yes, the Eucomon is planning to make a new step on the personal life of our public staff to continue the course of the harvesting of our family. And for this he intends to take three sorts of measures. On the one hand, it plans to promote the updating of the existing system of permits for the reconciliation of personal, work and family life. A normative update that must necessarily take place within the framework of the next public employment law that we have already committed in the legislative calendar that will shortly be forwarded to the House, and that the Government plans to begin its processing already in the coming days. On the other hand, we are also planning to boost telework. Telelana has been recognized as an effective tool for stimulating, promoting the reconciliation of personal life with family and work. Of the more than 100 people who have experienced this experience in recent years in the Basque Government, the accredited result is positive and the optimal assessment, both by the affected persons themselves and by the staff of the departments that have promoted this measure. And thirdly, we also plan to implement the conciliation measures provided for in the I Equality Plan approved at the end of the last parliamentary term, to which you referred in your question. A plan that is the first of its kind approved within the General Administration, after intense negotiation with trade union representation and broad agreement and support of staff representation. The measures that we plan to implement in implementation of the forecasts provided for in the I Equality Plan basically aim at the implementation of a new permit system that meets three fundamental objectives. Firstly, a system of permits that is more in line with the demands of today's society; a society in which new family models emerge, which pose unprecedented, novel, unknown needs so far, and to which specific responses must also be given by public administrations. The Government has already begun to act in this area, and this week I have had the opportunity to announce the decision we made in the Governing Council to match the assumptions of gestation with those of adoption, in the area of the granting of maternity and paternity leave. Secondly, measures to promote better distribution, more balanced and equitable sharing of family responsibilities between men and women. You have referred to a statistical data which is unquestionable in this regard: although permits for the care of family members are granted in principle equally to men or women, the fact is that almost 90% of the permits requested by employees of the Basque Government are issued by women. Thirdly, a system of permits that will contribute, which will also help to tackle the demographic challenge facing our society, with birth rates that are frankly worrying. We know that these objectives far exceed the powers and powers of the Government, but we are also clear that, if the objectives are clear, action must be coordinated by the different public authorities, so that everyone in the exercise of their powers works in coordination to achieve these objectives of facilitating the reconciliation of personal life with work and family, which are, I believe, widely shared, or shared by society and highly plausible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Uai Urruno Goldsti Group to the Chief of Work and Justice, concerning the opinion that the last Econites have of the Euscal system of pensions." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The chief physician, this verbal question, is of immense importance to us who are now pensioners and in the future pensioners. It's about the funding of pensions and the competency we're talking about. EH collected several times insisted that it is necessary and possible to have a proper system of pensioning at euskal, because we have all the tools necessary and suitable for this management here. And as often as we have put that assertion on the table, the other political parties have accused us of lack of realism, we have been told that we are in the moon, by means of the false arguments of endurance and financial impossibility. In fine, we are told that it is impossible for us to have our own pension system, and some political, unional, and social agents which form the majority of this people. Newly, the Ekonomist has been asked by most of the members of the Basque Association, 57%, desirable and able to meet the regular eucalyptic system of pensions. That's why we want to know if it's a good idea to hear about the statements made by those economists. We would like to know if Mrs. San José agrees with the possibility of the support system of her own pensions, which has been expressed by the last Econometer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In reply, ma'am, ma'am ma'am San José, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Your question raises a matter of great importance, as you have said, of a transcendental impact on thousands of Basque and Basque pensioners, which I think can only be dealt with from the point of view of rigour. We are talking about the future of pensions, the income they are entitled to receive, those who have contributed with their work and contributions to the economic growth and sustainability of the current pension system. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that we will continue to defend a public pension system, a public system of distribution and intergenerational and interregional solidarity. This Government and I are prepared to analyse and discuss the situation in the current public pension system, the security and dignity of pensions. We are determined to provide solutions that support it and make it sustainable over time. To do this work takes time, reports and, above all, rigour, a lot of rigour. As a contribution to improving and bringing the current pension system closer to Basque citizenship, we have set ourselves the objective of achieving in this legislature the transfer of the management of the economic system of social security. We will negotiate in the central government, in the terms laid down in the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Autonomy. We want to establish the appropriate agreements that will allow us to manage this, without breaking the unity and division of the principle of solidarity in the pension system. On the contrary, you are asking the government to define the outcome of a survey between economists and economists in the Autonomous Community. With all due respect to those who have prepared the survey, to those who have replied and to those who have analysed it, we are talking about the opinions of Basque economists and economists. Opinions, by the way, very different according to territory, age and professional situation. All of them, from my point of view, are respectable, but not sufficient for this Basque Government to define the viability of a Basque pension system of its own, as you propose. Honestly, Your Honor, this government is not going to position itself on something so important in view of the outcome of a survey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u9	Thank you, but I'd like to ask more details for the second round. I've asked you the right question, and it's very simple to answer: Yes or no. It's just that there aren't four people passing by! There are 57% of Basque and Basque economists. We would like to know who will answer us in this case, if the woman advises that she claims that a model of pensions of her own for Euskadi is not acceptable; the Minister of Labour and Justice, who says that because of her ideological and political position, as well as due to respect for legislation and economic viability, considers that we cannot assume to manage the pensions; the one who does not want to break the single box; the one who refers to the report by Octavio Granado; or if, on the contrary, we are being answered by a counsellor who is part of a government that considers a Basque pension system to be a priority. Who do we have to look at? Where do we have to look? This way? Towards you? Who is responsible for this? And we believe that we deserve a clear answer, because this is a problem that not only affects pensioners and pensioners today, pensioners who have to stretch their pension like a gum, in an unorthodox way, to reach the end of the month on many occasions. Because they take care not only of them and them, but of other living units. That's what happens many months. And here are two distinct examples: The Spanish state, which does not support dignity, which is exhausted, is performed by wretched pensions, or a pension system of euscals, which will guarantee us a worthy life, what we deserve. Madame San José, it is time to give up this model of the Spanish State, and to support our own example, because the only expedient is to establish a system of pensions worthy of our people. Because the extractions that the Ministry of Employment and Social Security has made to balance the annual gaps have left the shelter of pensions with spider webs. The majority of this Parliament, the majority of Basque society, believes that pension management must be tackled urgently, because we are calling for the transfer of the economic system from Social Security and because we want to build as soon as possible a Basque system of public pensions, because it is possible, because it is absolutely necessary, because the cow no longer gives for more. That is what most of this House is demanding. It's signed. What we don't know very well is where you stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u11	Look, Your Honor, this government does not want to take risks with something as delicate as the pension system or the pensions of our elders. As I said in my first speech, this Government wants the current system to be backed up and improved and have a sustainable future. Our priority is for all Basque citizens to receive decent pensions that will enable them to meet their vital needs. That's our goal. And in this sense we preach with the example, and that is why we have established systems, through income guarantee income, to supplement pensions when they do not reach to ensure a dignified life. You insist on the need to create a Basque pension system of your own. For my part, I would like to reiterate that this is not the debate. It is in our power to improve it, and that is why I say again that we are going to call for the transfer of management from the economic system of social security. It is therefore clear that we are defending a model that is now seeking to guarantee sustainability and solidarity. There may be others, but we bet on what I described in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u12	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, as to the expenditure of the Cultural Department of Podemos to the Chief of Policy and Cultural, in order to prevent the prosecutions of the EITB team." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u13	Thank you. Mr Councilman, in the face of the dismissal process experienced in Eusko Irratia and EITB in the last legislature, we wanted to know how much has been spent so far EITB in judicial proceedings, compensation to workers, requests for reports to private consultants and external law firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. All right, Mr. Zupiria, you're in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u15	Mr. President, President, members of the legislature, chief officers, all good days. Mr Martínez, I have forwarded the question that you have announced to us to the Directorate-General of EITB, and I will provide you with the information you have sent us concerning the year 2016. They're next. Data on compensation paid to workers in EITB, EUR 29,038; in ETB, EUR 113,610; in Eusko Irratia, EUR 209,532, and in EITBnet, EUR 1,811. As for minutes of lawyers, in EITB, 65,569 euros; in ETB, 65,276 euros; in Eusko Irratia, 20,037 euros; and in EITBnet, 33,880 euros. The information provided does not include any other consultancy costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u17	Thank you, chief of the department. The questions and doubts that we had and that we have, despite the data from 2016 – because the process is longer than mentioned in that year – are the result of what we consider and what at that time was also considered to be the first ERE in the Basque public sector. Because I'll be told that wasn't an ERE, but the reality at the moment is that 20% of Eusko Irratia's staff was fired. For many years EITB's directorates subjected the radio staff to commercialization, to false autonomous without any rights but with all labor obligations, therefore with salaries also below the convention. This resulted, as you know, in a labour inspection that sentenced the entity to a fine of €7 million, and also to pay €3 million annually since 2011. An amount which, like this half a million euros to which you have referred at the moment, came out of public budgets. A situation, moreover, that was made with professionals of the house, with professionals of quarry, trained in the public entity and also with a long professional experience, that the then management of the entity decided to eliminate because they were a symbol of that mismanagement and of that chapuza that had been made by the PNV in Eusko Irratia. Because they took OPE out of one, two, three places, and commercial contracts were made for the rest of the people to be able to heal the accounts. And a situation, as you know, one of the elements that also provoked the reprobation of Maite Iturbe, which follows, therefore..., well, "so" no, continues to the head of EITB despite the reprobation of ETB. We will continue to ask about the issue, but I do not know whether the department is aware that, although there have been some judgments, such as those we have referred to, of collective dismissals, the judicial process for the development of the EPO has not been completed, and a large number of individual dismissal trials are pending by court. I do not know whether there is any forecast or calculation in the department of what it could mean to compensate these dismissed workers if they are declared inappropriate. Nor do I know whether the department has calculated what it could assume in the event that the dismissals are declared null and void, the judicial costs that they would have to bear in the event that these persons who have obtained a place after the EPO want to claim their legitimate rights. Because we also remember today the multiple trials in which ETB workers have had to be compensated, as were the cases of M4F and Eitb.net. Twenty-four M4F workers, who were competing with creditors, had to be readmitted at the time. In addition, I don't know if the department could explain to us that, having a legal office of its own and an external office in addition to being hired, consultations are made with law firms such as Garrigues Walker to advise the director of the entity. We'd also like to... I imagine you won't have the data right now, but we will ask you this in writing, if you know the cost of these consultations outside the external cabinet and the consultant herself. And finally, we were concerned – yesterday we knew the data – that the negotiation of the convention was... There is a proposal from the entity's management to set a percentage of at least 10% to hire potential staff on the radio out of the work bag. I would like to know your opinion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u19	Mr Martínnez. I can't answer some questions you've asked me, because I don't have that information, and, of course, as you ask us these questions, we'll pass it to the Chief Director of EIB, because it belongs to him to give us an answer. However, I'd like to clear up two or three points according to the remarks you've made. Money paid as indemnization is the first. Many of these funds are connected to temporary contracts, and have been paid so far as the contracts are over, because they are legally demanded, these indemnizations. And, as you know, interrupting a temporary contract is not a challenge, that is, the end of a contract, as the name says, of a contract. On the other hand, as you know, EIB has been trying to regulate the non-definitely working people in it, and this has brought in some indemnizations that have to be paid just as it was. In the decisions which have hitherto been decided, after the trial at court, the Chief Court of the Basque Court and the Supreme Court have approved the decisions taken from the Supreme Court of EIB. And, yes, it is true that there have been some expenditures made in lawyers. Because it is legitimate and legitimate, so many persons have decided to carry their subject to the tribunals, which has caused them to spend a few expenses in lawyers and other services, which EIB has been obliged to take upon itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is that Alexia Castelo de sa Euscala Sozia, a member of the staff of the United States, was made to defend the Civil Record in the State of Justice." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Egun on, counselor. Next February 22nd the Sectoral Justice Conference will be held in Madrid, which will bring together the Ministry of Justice with those communities that, like ours, have assumed competence in the field of justice. One of the issues to be dealt with, and which we Socialists have considered and continue to consider very important, is that of the Civil Registry, which in recent times has been the subject of various attempts at privatization, in that strategy of the right to dismantle public services. That is why, in the last parliamentary term from the Socialist Group, we led a number of initiatives in defence of all public services. In this case, in defence of a public and free civil registry. And I have to say that all these initiatives were supported by the whole parliamentary arc, with the exception of the People's Party. That is why I have to highlight them, because these initiatives, together with others, forced the People's Party Government to withdraw a bill for the privatization of the Civil Registry, which had led to one of the biggest rejections known, not only by all registry staff, not only by legal operators, associations and professional colleges, but also by all citizens. The Basque Socialist parliamentary group continues to bet on a public and free civil registry, and it is of interest for us to know first-hand what approach the Labour and Justice Adviser has in this matter. That is why we have asked you the question: what position will your department stand for with regard to the Civil Registry at the next Sectoral Justice Conference. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u23	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Indeed, Mrs Castelo, the Sectoral Conference on the Administration of Justice will be held in Madrid on 22nd, which, as you know, is the body of collaboration between the State Administration and the administrations of the communities that have transferred competences in the provision of material, economic and personal resources necessary for the functioning of the Administration of Justice. And in that forum we are going to deal, among others, with the civil registry issue. As an adviser to the Department of Labour and Justice, it will be up to me to defend the position of the Basque Government at that meeting; I can assure you, Mrs Castelo, that it is very clear and consistent. We are going to defend in Madrid what we are defending here and which is perfectly in line with what Parliament approved in the last parliamentary term, specifically in the plenary sessions of 20 February 2014 and 19 February 2015. At the meeting next 22 February I will defend before the Minister of Justice and the representatives of the rest of the autonomous communities a public civil registry, free, close and accessible, electronic and in the service of the citizenry. A public and free civil registry because, without a doubt, the essential characters that define public services are free and public utility. A civil registry integrated into the administration of justice, and I say this expressly because, although the law provides for its judicialization, it must only be understood that its officers will no longer be the judges and judges and magistrates, who will have to devote themselves to the jurisdictional function, that is, to judge and enforce the court. Ladies and gentlemen, this measure would involve, in the opinion of this Government, the inclusion of lawyers from the Administration of Justice who are to be responsible for the Civil Registry in the transfer of the Administration of Justice. A Civil Registry with maintenance of all existing jobs, respecting the current civil registration office structure in each judicial party and the peace courts, and empowering the groups of secretariats of peace courts, as they are, in our view, an indispensable element in ensuring proximity justice. And finally, an electronic, modern Civil Registry, in which physical books disappear. And a digital record, with computer seats and electronic signature. I also want to share with you a story of the journey that has brought us here. During the 2011-2015 Legislature, the People's Party approved in solitary the allocation of the registry to property and commercial registerrs, through the additional twentieth provision of the Royal Decree Law 8/2014. This attempt to privatize was rejected by the Civil Registry workers, by numerous municipalities and autonomous parliaments – such as this one, which, as I have pointed out before, was clearly opposed on two occasions – by professional and trade union associations, by legal operators and by political parties, which ultimately, and fortunately, led to their repeal. I therefore hope that, when Law 20/2011 of 21 July comes into force on 30 June 2011, its implementation will be in line with the principles I am going to uphold in Madrid. I hope, in short, that we will have a civil registry law in tune with countries in our environment and in line with the demands of the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "Queer, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui, a member of the Popula team, made to the president about the bill of law approved by the general expenditure of the year 2017 of the Basque Autonomy Er member." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I ask you today about the budgets that you will present next week, which you will adopt on Tuesday at the Governing Council. At this point I imagine that the general lines and the road will take more than pergeny. It seems to me, and it seems to our group that they are important, because they are the first in the legislature. They can also mark the course we are going to take. Also because it seems to us that it is a good time to change a inertia, the inertia of previous years, in which, although it is true that we have not yet reached the level of income that we had before the crisis, we see that it is not possible to subject the increase in the current expenditure that suffers, therefore, the investment capacity and the capacity of the budgets to be the tractor of the activity in Euskadi, and where there is also a social model that gives rise to a subsidized population, with little possibility of job integration. I think there are things to change. The adjustments at the end have to be made on the middle classes, on the possibilities of families. Therefore, it seems to us a good time, a good opportunity to make a turn; a turn that leads us to a model that coincides with the statements that I have been listening to and that I share, in the sense that the best social policy is employment. And, therefore, the best budgetary policy is that which supports those who have to create such employment. After this week of certain doubts or hesitations, or uncertainties in tax matters, it also seems to me that for you and for us it is a good opportunity to move a message of trust and mark a clear line of the future. We have a responsibility in Euskadi, Mr Lehendakari, although we are in the opposition, but we have a responsibility here. We would like to be able to exercise it, and we would like to be able to agree with you on the lines of what is going to be the budget presented next week.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u27	Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all of you ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Alonso, the draft budgets that we will shortly be presenting on the 23rd (so we believe to present it to the House), responds to the two basic concerns that we understand have Basque society. One, to ensure the essential needs of people, and two, to promote sustainable growth that creates quality employment opportunities. And all this taking into account the time and context in which we live. And we will do so in accordance with the criteria of rigour, realism and responsibility. And we're gonna do it by doing it. Thus, we will meet budgetary stability and financial sustainability, deficit, debt and expenditure rule. We will maintain the budget staffing of the General and Institutional Administration. We will respect the revenue forecasts agreed at the Basque Finance Council. We will ensure the priority of essential services: three out of every four euros (three out of every four euros) available are targeted at social expenditure; exactly 76% of the budget. Health, education and social protection will have more resources. We are going to promote the productive economy, we are going to promote growth and job creation. We are emerging from the crisis, we have been growing for twelve quarters; since March 2013 jobs have been created. We have committed a new framework programme for economic recovery and employment, which will have a budget of €8.6 billion throughout the legislature, and this year we have committed an additional €5 million for youth employment programmes. We will also offer work experience support to 20,000 young people in this legislature, and we will increase innovation budgets by 5%. Our priority, Mr Alonso, corresponds to the priority of Basque society: more and better employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Lehendakari, for answering the question and indeed marking those priorities. I understand that we must make budgets that go in the direction of favouring the possibilities that Basque society has, and that means the possibilities that those who are undertaking, the private initiative that is so doomed by some part of the bench of this House, the social initiative whose collaboration is indispensable to ensure the exercise of solidarity among all, not only from the budget. And I'm not going to tell you that I don't like music if I really do then that's so and so we regain the incentive capacity that budgets have to have here in Euskadi and really being oriented towards employment. I have often seen, however, that when budgets are made, more thought is given to meeting the needs of the Administration than to what society needs. And, if you commit yourself, then we will carefully consider to what extent that is so or to what extent the inertia of the Administration conditions the presentation of the accounts. He says that they are going to be realistic and I hope so, because when a budget is not realistic, or the revenue forecast does not correspond to what is going to happen – and that is what has happened to us – the cuts and adjustments that must be made are made on their backs, without transparency, without they being able to follow and without being known by the public as a whole. But, ultimately, what I want to say to you is that if you make some budgets looking that way I think we will go to a model that is not the one that suits Euskadi, a model loaded with populism, a model loaded also with old ideological prejudices. And that we need a shift towards a model that really thinks about what's going on on the street, where they have to create jobs, help businesses, foster private initiative and give real employment opportunities. And we want to collaborate on that path, and we say to you: if you don't look at that side of the bench, you're not alone, you have majority, you have capacity, you have possibilities. And it has the responsibility to take Euskadi to that path of consolidation and growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, in my first speech I pointed out to you where the main lines of the draft budget will go, taking into account the two basic concerns, I insist: to ensure the essential needs of people, and to promote sustainable growth that generates quality employment opportunities. I thank you, Mr Alonso, for your tone, and I thank you for your willingness to the agreement, because this is what our society expects. And I believe that the beginning of this legislature must be the beginning of the exit from the crisis definitively since the agreement. And in that sense, it is a matter of working seriously, because outside this Parliament, in fact, there are many people who are having a bad time, and they do not want or understand the disputes. Euskadi, it is true, has a lower poverty rate than the state, and we want to lower it by 20% more. Euskadi accounts for 5% of the population and accounts for 40% of all State social assistance. We are at the forefront of public investment, health and education. We have enabled resources to compensate for the copayment of medicines to those who need it most. But we certainly have areas of improvement, including quality and care for people in health or education. But the Basque system of social protection is the result of a collective effort to guarantee a dignified life to those who need it most. Look, Mr Alonso, in keeping with your tone and disposition, I gather, and I hope that you too have gathered, the lines on which we want to move, from the commitment to work seriously so that the first year of this parliamentary term is certainly the first and final year of definitive exit from the economic crisis as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interrection, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, member of the Podemos to the president, concerning the luxury of his neighbor's cabin." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u33	Good morning. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mr. President. On the 16th of March, the mountain fell and caused damage to a pile of housing. Most of the people who lived there had to leave. It's a terrible situation for them: the loss of their lives from one day to another, and the most disquieting, without doubt, not knowing how long it will take. The first response that the institutions gave to the Kamignalde problem, in the eyes of those who, like me, followed the matter through the media, was undoubtedly satisfactory: families evacuated safely, relocated to public housing, works of stabilization of the slope that begin immediately, inter-institutional meetings to coordinate the actions... We must recognize that, in particular, the response of the Basque Government, and its own, was at that time up to date, and we congratulate it on that. The families were housed in homes in Alokabide, and there was a lot of money to cover their basic needs, and another to help affected businesses. So far so good. The general public, in which I was included, a year ago we turned off the radio, turned off the television and doubled the newspapers thinking that the matter was closed. However, for many of the affected families the drama continues. For them every passing day is one more question: when the works of the hillside will be finished, when they will fix the facades, when they will recover their memories, when they will be able to sleep again in their beds, and when they will reopen their shops. When, when, when. I have already told you that the purpose of this inquiry is not, of course, to hold you accountable for what has happened, because here a series of unfortunate circumstances accumulate, to whose causes I shall refer later. The purpose of our inquiry is to ask you to resume leadership on this issue that affects the work of several institutions, as the country's highest institutional representative. Some of these affected families have come to this plenary to try to meet with all the political groups later, but a couple of weeks ago we were also visited by a representative of the City Council of Ondarroa, and the situation they transmitted to us was of concern. Worry because we think from Elkarrekin We may not only not be in charge of the matter, but everything undertaken a year ago, which was good, is about to derail. And hence the reason for this interpellation. Today, almost €8.5 million is missing to cover the cost of the emergency and emergency works needed to stabilize the slope, and, more importantly, eighty-four families remain outside their homes, far from their memories and experiences. And this, as you will understand, is very hard for those families. Why do we ask you to lead the answer to this problem? For two reasons. The first is that the City Council of Ondarroa does not have sufficient financial capacity to deal alone with this matter. There are 18 million euros in total, and the city council has requested a loan of 2 million euros and is covering the costs of the rents of Alokabide. But that's where his ability to act comes in. This does not mean that the city council does not have an objective responsibility, because, when an urban management plan is approved and a municipal housing promotion can be built in a place like Kamignalde, someone will have to answer for the suitability of that plan, for the construction project or for the proper execution of the works. But there is also a subsidiary responsibility, in this case of the Parliament, which gives the approval to this urban management plan. And yet, here we find that the parliament for this year 2017 has allocated a budget of zero euros for emergency works. And this is precisely the second reason why we ask you to lead the response to Kamignalde's problem, because it seems that the Bizkaia Diputation, once the media impact has passed, has profiled itself, even at the risk that families may spend a year more away from their homes, which unfortunately, and given the progress of the works, is something that already seems irreparable. Therefore, we consider from Elkarrekin We can say that the Basque Government must be the institution that unlocks in the first instance the serious problem of financing that the works suffer, and that a posteriori, no doubt, claims where and when appropriate, including the courts of justice, the property responsibilities that the companies or the institutions involved have incurred, among which I understand that there is not the Basque Government itself. That is why today we are conducting this inquiry into the actions they intend to take, and we invite you to respond positively to this inquiry that we are making to lead this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. All right, Mr. Erkokick, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Becerra, there is a point in your interaction that is very important from my point of view, more important than important, in order to define the circumstances of the interaction, and so give the answer to this interference in order to place it properly. You're asking when you write your text if you're wondering what he's going to do in the future on that business about the Kamialds, "dentro de las competecias del Gobierno." You use this express and word. To-day you have not repeated it in your verbal interference, but it is clear that the foundation of the philosophy of your planning is there, that you ask MARINTY what he intends to do, but always playing the game, or the field. I consider this as very important, because I am really convinced that the competition is a fundamental element in the whole administration, and the administration is created in order to complete the public service objectively. Thus it is said, among others, by the Constitution and by the laws. It is the law that enables us, teaches us, that the administration may be able to act in its own affairs, but this continuity is always limited, and that is to be carried on within its jurisdiction. This is so in so clear and obvious a manner that the law itself, the legislation of the administrative procedure, plainly maintains that all administrative actions are opposed to the principle of right. The administrative procedural legislation, now updated in Law 39/2015 of 1 October, is clear in this regard when it says that administrative acts are null and void when they are issued by bodies manifestly incompetent because of jurisdiction or territory. And you will tell me, "Well, when the incompetence of the organs is not manifest, what happens?". In that case, too, the Administration incurs a vice not of radical nullity, but of nullity. I would like to say that, in fact, the whole legal system, the legal-administrative system, shape the actions of public administrations around the central idea of competition. The administrations are empowered to act, but to do so within the framework of the powers expressly assigned to them. And if this happens with administrative law, much of it also happens in the area of criminal law. I do not want to establish an automatic equivalence, which would be absurd to establish, between null and void administrative proceedings for lack of jurisdiction and the offence of prevarication, but no one hides from anyone that a significant percentage of prevarication offences recognized by the courts relate to actions carried out by public officials outside the competences legally assigned to them. The matter is even more complicated when we are talking about incompetent administrative proceedings aimed at making effective economic transfers of public funds, either in favour of natural or legal persons, or in favour of persons, between legal persons, public or private, is the same. Transfers of public funds born out of public accounts can be made only when there is a legal title that justifies it, and if there is no such legal title that justifies it, then patrimonial liability, accounting liability and even criminal liability, beyond the prevarication, embezzlement of funds and so on. Well, what's with all this introductory explanation, this introductory reflection? It comes in order to narrow down – I believe that necessarily in this case – exactly what the Government has done in the matter to which you refer and what it is, above all, what it can do in accordance with the legal order, the competences it has legally assigned, which is the framework in which it is obliged and necessarily has to move if we do not want to trigger the immediate activation of those mechanisms of nullity or accounting or criminal liability to which I have referred before. The facts have been described very briefly by you, they are clear, and I will not insist on that. Perhaps he lacked emphasis, a special emphasis, on the fact that immediately after the events to which the Ondarroa City Council referred, he promoted recruitment through the emergency procedure to meet the urgent needs raised there in an immediate and indefatigable manner. A contract which in this case, when processed by emergency means, can be carried out without promoting competition, without administrative file and, moreover, without the prior existence or accreditation of a budget allocation for this purpose. This is inconceivable, it is inadmissible by law in the rest of the proceedings, but in the case of the emergency (only in the case of emergency), because of the immediacy of the action linked to the emergency and the damage and dangers that it generates, it is authorized. At that time, the Government was activating its powers, acting within the framework of its powers. You have cited the cases in which the Government has actually carried out proceedings nothing more than the facts. Activates civil protection skills, active social services skills, and active even trade skills. You have referred, in fact, to the measures taken by the Department of Economic Development to cover the costs of moving businesses that had to change their business to another location as a result of the situation generated in urbanization as a result of the outflows. But another set of measures are also being taken to address the urgent needs caused by eviction and relocation. People are between heaven and earth, and their immediate need must be provided, and that is what the Government is doing by activating its competence in the field of social services and civil protection. And then it also takes appropriate measures to facilitate the relocation of affected families to housing located in the immediate vicinity of their property, either in the same municipality or in the immediate environment of the same. Of course, a measure is taken outside the jurisdiction of the Government. A measure. A measure that has to do precisely with the emergency hiring approached by the city council to promote the stabilization of the slope, to paralyse the detachments, which were increasing the risk and danger that was being identified on the safety of people and goods in urbanization. This exceptional measure taken by the Government, which has recently been adopted, aims to contribute in solidarity to the financing of works that the city council has contracted and has to face in isolation, in the context of an exceptionality justified or linked to the emergency of the situation. The measures must be taken immediately, in an indefatigable manner. The City Council promotes such emergency recruitment because such an immediate response is absolutely essential, and the Government, together with other institutions (the General Administration of the State, the Bizkaia Foral Diputation), contributes, on an exceptional basis and with close connection to the nature of the emergency, to meet this need for resources that the City Council has to strictly deal with the emergency contracted directly by the institution. Of course, this is an action that is not foreseen in the competition division. It is an action of the Basque Government which, in the case of the central Government, is even framed by a decree by which the central Government attracts for itself a generic competence to meet this type of needs. The Basque Government acts here clearly outside the powers expressly assigned, but justifying its action in an exceptionality associated with the emergency. I, from there, looked at the legal system to see what other competitive titles can enable the Government to act, to continue to act in this area, but I did not just find what other titles can justify its action, let alone an action involving a transfer of funds in favour of other entities or institutions. I am willing to listen to you if you know other competition titles that can justify the Government's action. If you want, then we review those competition titles and see who they attribute competences to. To other institutions, clearly. But the responsibility of the Government is largely fulfilled by the actions carried out within the framework of its competences, as you point out in your inquiry, and even by actions that could hardly be incardinated in that competitive framework, which would be inconceivable of its competences, but through clearly exceptional, and exceptionally unique, actions associated with the emergency. From there, then, each institution will have to activate its own powers, and act accordingly to respond to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u37	As you said very well, Mr Erkoreka, obviously our inquiry was about the powers of the Government, and we fully understand that, given the Law on Administrative Procedure, the authorization is limited. That's obvious. It is true that the Government has a housing competence – there is a Housing Act and there are some powers – and there are a number of instruments that give the Housing Act and that generally use the Government in a customary way, which are agreements, more or less ordinary or extraordinary, with other institutions to carry out actions in this regard. Therefore, I believe there are tools and instruments. It is true that the Government has done what it had to do so far. I have already said from the outset that this inquiry is not to hold him responsible for things he has not done. That's obvious. But it is also true that you have rightly told me that this is an exceptional situation. That is, the families who buy a house overnight, in a place where the institutions themselves have told them that they can live and that they can be built, and for whatever reason (whether for climatic, geological or whatever) they lose that house, cannot be told that there is nothing to do about it. Nor can they be referred, I understand, to a court of law against those who would have been responsible for the construction of such dwellings there or who would have been inadequately built. I think it is a matter of institutional leadership, which has nothing to do with the competition sphere – and it is the one that we call on the lehendakari, or the government, or yourself – to give an answer to those families by not hiding exclusively in the competition question. You, I understand – you will confirm this now – at the last Governing Council you have approved a budget of EUR 2 million. And it has been exceptional, as you say, and taking care of the nature of the emergency. And the City Council of Ondarroa has submitted a report, which I know, saying that if right now, for lack of funding, these works are paralyzed, there is a risk that the slope will continue to fall. Therefore, exceptionality exists. It exists until the works are finished. It's not worth putting 1 million euros in the parliament, 2 million euros in the government... No, no, 18 million euros are needed. And I do not say that the government has to put them; I agree with you on that. What I am saying is that leadership is needed in the country to tell the Bizkaia Parliament that it cannot be profiled in this matter. Because here we have one question: there are three institutions; one has fulfilled (it's yours), another wants to comply but has no financial capacity, and another has financial capacity but does not want to comply. Because, of course, if the Bizkaia Diputation has no housing skills, why is it doing housing promotions all over Bizkaia? And, if you have them, take on that competence and assume the subsidiary responsibility for having approved the urban management plan at the time. We don't ask you to put the money in, obviously. We don't ask them to get to the prevarication. But we do ask you to use that leadership, which I believe you are willing to have, to give an answer to these families. Here we cannot hide ourselves in the competition issue; that is all I intend to say to you. And with that, I would also not like this to be a matter of political debate, because what I believe is that it is a human problem, of people. Then we have to give him that answer. And, well, I think my intervention in that sense is being moderate enough, because we don't want from Elkarrekin.We can take a medal, not to be the defenders of families, or to stir up a certain institution. Our intention is that this human problem has an answer. And I understand that you will have that provision too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, I share with you the idea that, in fact, the problem is above all human, or that it affects us and concerns us above all because it is human, right? And, therefore, the involvement of the Government from the outset has responded to that nature of the problem. The lehendakari was very attentive to the issue from the beginning, and there was a physical presence of several counselors from the first moment, the moment the events occurred there in Ondarroa, showing closeness, support and support of all kinds. From the moment the picture of the actions of the institutions is defined, I myself am personally with a delegated commission, headed by the representation of the City of Ondarroa, and then my team has been permanently forming part of the meeting forums that have taken place in Bilbao and Ondarroa to face this situation, assuming the responsibilities that we have. The Government, and the lehendakari at the head of it, of course, has no inconvenience; on the contrary, it is prepared to exercise leadership in this area, the leadership that may be appropriate to it, but a leadership that cannot in any case supplant or replace what is the existing competition framework in this area. And I used to... You have now quoted to me the public nature, forgiveness, the public impulse from which these houses and so on were born, but, look, we are talking not about public-owned social housing, but about private-owned housing. We are not talking about a promotion of the Basque Government, but about a municipal promotion, promoted by the City Council of Ondarroa through a public society 100 per cent municipal, called Ondarroa Lantzen. The intervention of the Basque Government in the planning and construction of these houses was null and void. Nothing. The Basque geography is full of private housing of very different nature but driven by the Basque Government through promotions of the Executive itself. This is not the case. You'll tell me, "Well, you're slipping a hillside; you can operate the mountain competition," but the mountain competition, from the approval of the Historic Territories Act, clearly corresponds to the historical territories for the mountains, farms, forest services, forest guard, forest soils and everything else. Of course, then there is the financial rescue of the city council on the assumption that the city council can see itself in the need to face obligations that far exceed its financial capacity, but it is that everyone also knows that the financial tutelage of local authorities in Euskadi corresponds to the outlaws, to the historical territories. Therefore, I have not just seen what is the competitive title from which the Government can step up its action in this area. It can exercise formal leadership, in the sense that it encourages the rest of the institutions to activate each of them their competitive mechanisms and put in place the mechanisms at their disposal to meet this need, the situation of need generated in Ondarroa as a result of this misfortune, but it is true that it is a soft leadership. Because leadership is effectively exercised when it is projected on own resources and institutions that depend on oneself, and when it comes to articulating dispersed administrative actions, with organizations each of which has its own resources and competences, because it is a leadership, let's say, of a power and a relative operational capacity, isn't it? Of course, you also raise in your question the possibility of taking care of, of compensating even for the particular damage that the houses have been able to experience, from public funds. In other words, the most common mechanism, best known for compensating citizens financially for the damage they have experienced in their particular heritage area, as a result of the actions of the public authorities, is the form of property liability, but it also operates exclusively when the damage is a direct consequence of the normal or abnormal functioning of public services. That's not the case either. And, of course, in no case an abnormal functioning of a public service dependent on the Basque Government. I therefore understand that you did not criticise the Government's action, but I thought it appropriate to bring the problem of the division of powers to the fore, because it is necessary and inevitably the one that frames the action of the public authorities in this case and the one that has to inevitably direct the action of the different institutional responsibilities in order to respond to the state of necessity generated in Ondarroa. Therefore, I take the floor. I invite you, if you identify any more competence of the Basque Government that can act on this matter, to remind me. I will gladly analyze it, but the situation is what I describe to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpology, Deputy Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Collectors to the president, the Economic Concert, and the Companion strategy of having a good time negotiated. " Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u41	Yes, good morning, everyone. Destroy, November 17th, 2016: Before King Philip VI, King of Spain, President Urkullu exposes the immobilism of Rajoy and the danger of the Economic Concertation. The president is asking for a yearly settlement. It's just a new one, but it's showing the situation that we've been living around the deck and the Economic concert. The necessity of repairing affairs in front of the President's King of State, by calling SOS, does not speak well for our independence. It's been years since we've closed the quaker's settlements. For years we have lived in a state of instability, read and apply the same law of the Cupid, but here and in Madrid we have calculated the different numbers. Money goes round and round, without repairing the subject. We have for more than ten years not only not agreed on annual quota clearances, but there has been no other quota law that should have entered into force in 2012. And what about the economic concert, which is modified to incorporate new tax figures and a little more. Ten years in which the economic and regulatory environment has varied, not only here, but also in the State and in Europe, with laws such as those of dependence, which have led to changes in the financing of common system communities, something that influences the quota; or as the law of stability, for example. But for the governments of Madrid as if nothing, extending the issue sine die, because while it is not solved it is they who win. The truth is that the discrepancies over the quota, which have come almost at the same time as the last five-year law in force in 2007, are one of the fundamental issues on the political agenda of this country. Discrepancies that have already occurred in previous times with previous laws, and that have unfortunately been solved by the different needs that have hit successive governments of the State. Unfortunately, we have had to see how the liquidation of the quota has been made conditional on the need for approval of the general budgets of the State or on the support of the Government of the State in some other law by the Basque Nationalist Party. In short, we have seen how something so important to the public coffers of our administrations has been reduced to an exchange of chromosomes between parties. And this week we have already seen how the same equation has been put on the table again: State budget-cup, Government of the Basque Nationalist State-Party. That's the word, addiction. The agreement of the coupa has been obtained according to the will and necessity of the government of the State, in the exchange of parties. Far from what the law itself has said, and much more distant from the respect due to the auto-gravity of our people. Is it really that complicated to apply to what Cupid's law says? Why, if the law foresees how the coupe should be calculated, we must always be a secret negotiation between several parties? Just because that's what the state is interested in. It has been a fine excuse for the governments of the present state to carry on other matters for their own interest. And here we are in 2017, with no agreement for the coupon settlement for ten years. There was no agreement with Zapero Madrid and lópez Gaste, although they were part of the same party, and there was no step forward when the first legislation of President Urkullu was completed. He confessed himself to have no intentions in Mr. Montor, because they were in an absolute majority government. So, obviously, the Madrid government has a mule. This time, Mr. Rajoy needs votes from others in Congress in Madrid, so we've seen new chapters on the deck. A meeting between Montoro and Subauzu on December 5, where they decided to begin the negotiation. For this negotiation we've had the first technical meeting, and finally, on another plane, our meeting with Mr. Montoro and Mr. Esteban this week. The agreement with the quapo is at risk of the state's budget negotiation. Yeah, looks like the quota's come into play, looks like the negotiation's started, looks like the dance's started. But let us not forget that once again the dance begins Madrid, that it is Madrid that has the dance chart and that it is Madrid that chooses the song. And let's not forget that there are other dances that Madrid has also initiated, such as autonomous funding, and that dance, although we don't dance it, can mark and determine what happens to ours. Because out there, although some even in their congresses carry defenses of the system of economic concert and Navarro convention, we know that these are not well seen, and that our system of concert is seen as a privilege to eliminate, or at least to retouch, on the path of the standardization of autonomous communities of common regime. The president said the Economic concert is in danger, and I agree with the president. If there is danger, and it is deeper, because the model of financing in the community of the state is uncertain, because the financial crisis and the failure of the state model have made such a distinction, and we must answer it as a people. If that's the context, we want to know about the quapo negotiate today. It is the theme that influences us as a people, and, therefore, which is to be answered as a people, far from parties, because it is an important subject, I should say essential. Several times we have mentioned the importance of this subject to define the sources of money so essential to the exercise of public policy. And today-any discussion about the sources of money, any decision, even more important because we need all the tools to be active against the effects of economic crisis. There is much to discuss about the sources of money, and we will discuss the policy of abortions, of tax policy, etc., but it is clear that 1,600 million dollars is in danger, and that, owing to the differences around the stock of years, one hundred million dollars is not a small matter. Negotiating an economic and quota agreement is one of the key issues for this Government. That is what the Government itself has acknowledged, and that is what we believe in EH Bildu. Because fiscal and financial autonomy is basic to designing public policies that respond to the needs of our country, because they are basic to building a country. We would therefore like to know what the Government intends to do with this quota negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pinedo, I agree with you, you're right when you ask your question, that the negotiation of concerto Economic and Cupo is a great challenge and that to be answered as a village to the romances of this size. I agree. I won't hide my doubt. After all, Pedro Louis the Uriant, the ardent advocate of the Concert, of the Concertation, has mentioned that in this "responsibility" alone sees the institutions, and that the whole society ought to be observed to be protected. After listening to such expressions, I'd insist on the need for a pedagogia campaign for the Economics concert. A positive view is required, and the first idea would be as follows: The Concert, or Economic Covenant, is the axis of our self-grongation, and the consequence of the treaty between two parties. The second idea, the degree of well-being we've obtained in Eucharin owes a great deal to the concert, to the treaty. Third, by the Concert, by the Covenant, he has shown his Nature from Euskaca to his fellowship by payment of the cup. I am clear that it is for the leaders of all organizations or political parties to raise the consciousness of society for the better protection of the concert together. This aim is shared by all political and organizations, and the question is how we can achieve it. We must make a special effort to present and develop this goal as a national purpose. We have a great deal to play, and we must unite our forces to defend our rights. The economic view of the concert or of the treaty is important and political too. The Economic concert is rooted in history, founded on historical rights, and has its source in those rights. In the year 1878, about a century and a half ago, when the forums were cancelled, the system of the Economic Concera was set up. This political agreement updates our historic forum rule. With this, the Echonomic Concert is a two-way political agreement. This system is the essential element of the relation and co-operation between the Basque and the Spanish State. The Economics concert has the full support of legislation. The Constitution of Spain and the State of Guernica offer a legal protection to the system of the Concertific Concert. The laws of the treaty, agreed, are the laws which regulate the concert, and the laws of every five years upon the crown which is paid from Eucaia to the State. The agreement was confirmed in the year 2002. Even the European board guarantees it. This was confirmed in the year of the Justice of the Luxembourg. Therefore, Mrs Pinedo, it is relevant to share, highlight and defend the uniqueness of our self-government, based on the historical rights of the outlying territories. The current system of concert or convention has been the best exponent of the self-responsibility of the Basque institutions in the economic and financial management, in the service to the improvement of the well-being of the citizenry and also in the practical demonstration of the value of solidarity. This has been a shared responsibility of all the public institutions and all the parties that we have been part of here in times of both good times and economic crisis. It has been the philosophy in the exercise of the concert system. What we have always done has been spending according to what we could afford, nothing more or less. All the institutions have paid religiously for what we spent, and we have also contributed on time to the general expenses of the State through the quota. This is the culture of responsible management of public resources that should be promoted, and, to that end, the economic concert is a fundamental pillar. And to get into the current reality it is necessary to remember that just over three years ago we agreed and carried out the modification of the economic concert. In January 2014, new tax figures were agreed, with a total of seven new taxes. On that occasion, and despite the agreement reached at the conciliation, it was not possible to make any further progress. Disagreements in respect of quotas that had been dragging away since 2008 were pending. Indeed, it should be remembered that, on the occasion of this agreement, in January 2014, the joint committee that approved the modification of the economic concert also participated in the representation of the Foral Diputación de Gipuzkoa, at that time governed by Bildu. I stress this case of pragmatism, realism and attention to real politics. From that moment on, the agreement has not been possible, nor has it even been possible to meet. The discrepancies that we have been dragging, suffering, I would say, since 2011 in the area of quota settlement are well known. These discrepancies in quota quantification are mainly due to the application of the quota update index referred to in Article 10 of the Five-Year Cup Act 2007-2011: the Spanish Government has unilaterally determined a new quota update index, applied this new quota update index for the calculation of the quota since 2011, and the forecasts of the fifth additional provision on the planned revision of the base year quota have not been applied. After years of denial of dialogue, and the loss of an absolute majority, the Spanish Government has at least assumed the need to sit, listen and speak, yes. I can assure you that the attitude of the Basque Government will be positive. Over the course of this year, we will redouble our efforts to resolve existing discrepancies in this area. We have made some progress, starting with the formal establishment of the working group for the analysis and approach of solutions to discrepancies in quota settlements to date. It has been in this forum where the Basque Government has had the opportunity to present and document the exact quantification of the discrepancy, amounting to EUR 1,651 million. Solving this discrepancy, reaching an agreement and advancing the renewal of the five-year law and updating the concert is a priority issue for the Basque Government; I would say it is also a priority issue for all the political institutions of the country and for Basque society as a whole. And in the face of this new situation, we have a negotiating strategy. I want to be positive, because recognizing the existence of the problem is a necessary first step in solving it. And, reopening the path of bilateral dialogue, the agreement is possible. On 15 September 2014, Mrs Pinedo, among many other issues, such as the regulatory capacity in VAT, procedural rules, the shielding of non-tax rules, presented to the President of the Spanish Government a first proposal to also resolve the differences in interpretation in the current quota. And it has nothing to do with change in chromosomes or budget negotiations. This issue, and the proposal for the renewal of a new quota, are part of the Basque agenda, have the unanimous support of this House, and we will continue to put them to the Spanish Government every time we have the opportunity. Economic Concert is the cornerstone of our self-government. Fortunately, the recognition and defence of the Economic Concert unites us, bringing unanimity to all the political and institutional representation of Euskadi, and on this basis I am convinced that it is possible to reach a reasonable agreement between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government. This is an undertaking that I maintain as a priority. Apart from what may be political parties' efforts, it is the Basque Government's efforts and the lehendakari's efforts. However, in any case, I will tell you that, beyond the lack of agreement on the liquidation of quotas, my wish is for us to be able to turn this debate into a positive and constructive proposal, which underlines what unites us: the commitment to protect Basque self-government and our unique system of economic concertation. And, in this sense, the defence of the Economic Concert and its explanation is not something that belongs solely and exclusively to the Government: it is a responsibility of all and everyone, of the whole Basque society. I call for joint work and collaboration, as well as collaboration with civil society, to support the goal of the Kontzertuaren Lagunak community, Gurea Kontzertua, which is publicly presented on 28 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u45	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, yes, we can agree. And you know, it's obvious that we agree with the importance of the concert and the material paper. That's what we agree with. But my question was what the Government intends for negotiation, and you said only one sentence: Tien una strategy de negucición. Y begina forget pudo leer. I haven't heard any more of your idea of negotiation. It's true that you've fired some ideas at the EZA and I'll take the interesting ones: the participation of society, or the existence of society in some way behind it... It is true that there is a great ignorance about our society and society, and that we ought to settle it somehow. It is true, and it has finally called for joint work and cooperation, but with regard to a specific date, which I think is very interesting, I do not think it would be necessary to call for joint work and for the cooperation of all of us here and of this Parliament so that this quota negotiation can proceed as it has to. I understand your commitment as a government, that you tell me it's a commitment as a government, but, of course, one feels, we can say, a little... I don't know, nervous. Not nervous, but as what can happen here, when we see yesterday, or today we have read press headlines about Mr Esteban's yesterday meeting with Mr Montoro, in which they come to say that the Cup Law hangs over what happens with the general budgets of the State. And I'm worried about that. I am very concerned, because we are talking about general budgets of the State that, whether we like it or not, influence our society, and that do not influence at all good. Not good at all. And once again... Well, yeah, you tell me, "The parties will do what they have to do." Obviously, I'm not going to question that. As you said, Eusko Alkartasuna at the time was, and evidently collaborated, and Euskal Herria Bildu in the last reform of the concert was, and approved. Of course, of course. When we are in institutions we know what we are, and we and we are responsible for our actions, and that is why we did it. But the reality is that right now it's on the table that connection between what's going to happen to the quota and what's going to happen to the state budgets, and once again... Because this is not new, this has happened endless times, I said it in my first speech, and you know it, and the counselor who is at your side as well, and the counselor also, who have been in Madrid for many years. That was there, and it was a negotiation, we like or we like, of the Basque Nationalist Party with the government in office, the People's Party or the Socialist Party. As much riding, as much riding, Isabel and Fernando. It doesn't matter to me. But that was the way it was. And, of course, when you read "The PNV always defends the interests of the welfare of the Basques", and it turns out that the PP in 2013 takes forward the Caisses Act with the support of the PNV, in 2010 the labor reform is approved thanks to the abstention of the PNV, and in 2011 the Congress approves the pension reform with the vote in favor of the Socialist Party, partner of government, and with the abstention of the PNV... Well, of course, if these are the issues that benefit all Basques and Basques, then one is concerned. He's worried because he doesn't see it. Why don't you see it? Because these are not issues that are good for the Basques and Basques that we live in this country. And, I insist, it has to be a negotiation with a country view. And I said this in my first intervention: fiscal and financial autonomy are basic not only for today's day; they are basic for us to build a country, for us to look forward and lay foundations. Because you know that in this Chamber, yes, it is true that we are all apparently in defense of the economic concert, some as a goal and others as a starting point. That is the difference we have regarding the economic concert. And for us, I admit it's a starting point and not a goal. So, Mr Lehendakari, how is the government going to deal with this negotiation? How is the government going to put the quota negotiation in this case so that it is really a country decision, a decision for everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pinedo, I'm glad you're worried about the concert and the cup. What I do not know is whether what is most troubling him is the bargaining capacity that the Basque Group may have in Congress and in the Senate in the face of the bargaining capacity that EH Bildu representatives might have in Congress and in the Senate. I don't know. But I insist on what I said in my first speech. This is a question of the Basque Government's agenda, and it is an issue that enters into what is the negotiation process of the working group already set up between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, Mrs Pinedo. In any case, on the negotiation strategy, let me respond to what the negotiation strategy might be within the working group itself between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government. And I have no doubt that, moreover, by affecting an issue such as that which is the responsibility of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, we also share with other institutional leaders who have responsibility in this matter. So, Mrs. Pindo, we've begun a new legislation. And when we look at auto-generacy and political future, we imagine agreement and alliance, both here and with the state. It is, therefore, consent to overcome the discords of the Spanish Government, and this year is one thing that I have come to proclaim. We've completed a crew. We've had first-accompanied terms, and we've been able to introduce and defend our point of view on this team. I mean, in total, as you said before and as you said, we've cleared up the disagreement of 1.651 million euros. Now we have a new opportunity to defend the Economic concert with agreement, which is our priority. After all, this is the most important guarantee of political partnership and of our well-being. And with this, I've already said that the degree of well-being we've achieved owes a great deal to the Economic Concera. So we have the organizations and directors of politics to reveal the actual reality of the concert and to act in their own defense. And that's what we're gonna do on that crew. My commitment, therefore, Mrs Pinedo, and that of my Government, to the economic concert and the negotiation of the liquidation of the quota and a new five-year quota law, is total and absolute as a government. I believe in the institution of the concert as a vertebral instrument of our economic and financial relations with the State, and also in its potentialities, which are the ones I have previously explained to the President of the Spanish Government at my meeting on 15 September 2014. In its potential as an element of political-institutional coexistence of two systems which must be harmonised economically. I reaffirm that the Basque Government and the outlaws are the legitimate institutions to negotiate and agree with the State Executive on the content, evolution and possible updating of the economic concert, which, we must not forget, is a state norm, which also seems to frequently forget that the economic concert is a state norm. I reaffirm that, as one of the main assets of our self-government, we must strive to defend the concert and to update it and adapt it to the changing circumstances – which you also mentioned in your first intervention – of fiscal policy, so that it can fulfil its purpose of ensuring the financial sufficiency of all Basque institutions. The government agreement itself reiterates these ideas. It qualifies the concert as one of our main features of self-government, and this agreement commits us to denounce and reject the actions of the State that seek an intervention on financial and fiscal policy without respecting it and without agreeing within the bilateral commissions the appropriate measures for any public action in the economic and financial field. We have started with the Spanish Government an area of constructive and loyal dialogue, after a long time of distancing and disengagement. The working teams created must work within a framework of stability, in a scenario aimed at bringing the agreement closer. I believe in the concert, I believe in the pact, I believe in the bilateral agreement, and I believe that the bilateral agreement is possible. The Concert is the economic basis of our well-being system. We're licenses. Euscalka's contribution and the coupe are fixed. And it's a solid Euscadi, which gives more than one's own, and I want to emphasize it too. All these reasons are based on protecting the support of this system. And it's not the time for motives, but the moment when society has been so important to defend everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Public and Autobernus, of the House of Police, Borja Sémper Pacalka Group, the Chief of the Public and Autobernus, "about a high-speed train." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u49	Mr Andrea, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Andrea, Mr Andrea, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Andrea, Mr Andrea, Mr Andrea, Mr Andrea, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Andrea, Mr Andrea, Mr Erkoreka, you took off a few days ago with truly surprising statements. They were surprising because it was a new argument on the part of the Government (and in fact that surprise generated press headlines), and surprising also because objective data do not support these demonstrations. You come to say that the fact that Rajoy was born or was born in Galicia causes the works of the high-speed train in Galicia to go faster than in Euskadi, to have invested more in Galicia than in Euskadi. If the facts do not support it, and this is a new argument, and next week the Basque Government is presenting the draft budgets, a pertinent question could be whether perhaps the subconscious has played a bad part in it, and that in view of the forthcoming budgets here in the Autonomous Community, in addition to analysing the objective content by the opposition groups, we will also have to interpret whether certain decisions are the result of the birthplace of the advisers of his Government and of the lehendakari himself. And we would like to know whether you believe that this is one of the arguments or one of the measures that Parliamentarians will have to take into account when analysing the budgets; whether the place where the advisers are born, for example Mrs Tapia, is going to be influential or will have a significant influence when determining the investments that the Basque Government, in terms of infrastructure, is going to present in the forthcoming budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. All right, Mr. Erkokick, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry, Mr Semper, that you are focusing on a very specific and very anecdotal question of an intervention that took place three weeks ago. Of course, you are free to set up your initiatives as you wish, but I see that you have not heard my words; that, as on other occasions, you are inspired by secondary sources (printers and teletypes). In any case, I am surprised that you are surprised that you can hear a hypothesis about what is happening with investments in relation to high speed in the Spanish state, which can be described as anything less original, breaking and novel. Because it has been repeated on many occasions by an endless number of political, institutional and media actors... throughout the whole of Spanish geography, since at least 2009, when it acceded to the Ministry of Development another Galician, Pepe Blanco. Since then, there have been these rumors. Look, a brief review of the hemerotheque: "Valencian entrepreneurs denounce that the government prioritizes the AVE to Galicia in front of the Mediterranean Corridor" (October 2015); "Catalan European Parliament denounces that State Budgets foresees an investment of 1,217 million for the AVE to Galicia while they contemplate absolutely nothing for the Mediterranean Corridor"; "The AVE of Galicia receives more investment than the entire Mediterranean Corridor" (2012); "The investment of the AVE to Galicia for the works of Fomento of the rest of the country"; "The minister has reemphasized the central government's commitment to railway infrastructures in Galicia, which in its own words represent '133% more' than in the rest of Spain" (La Vanguardia, 2014). You have come to write black on white, Mr Semper – I am sure it is not hidden from you – to say that there is nothing more profitable than having a president of the government of the Autonomous Community itself to secure investments, precisely in relation to this matter. It is not an occurrence of Erkoreka, it is a cry, as you can see in this account or in this relationship, that it could be beneficially enriched by statements made in Galicia by the involved themselves and by the Galician press, expressing their legitimate pride, on the other hand, that those born in the country give priority to the railway infrastructures that go to the country. It's a cry, Mr. Semper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u53	I tend to look at the details, Mr Erkoreka, and I also follow you with interest, believe me. With interest. And I went to see the intervention, because I say, "This could not be said by Josu Erkoreka! He's a serious and responsible gentleman!". You have not been able to say this, because you go to the Transparency Portal of the Government of Spain, and in the period between 2011 and 2016, investments in this area in the Basque Country amount to 3,148.26 million euros, and in Galicia to 2,990 euros. Neither of the two computes are minor! Of course, if the Basque Government were to go to the forums where the presidents of autonomous communities went, you would also have the opportunity to hear Mr Feijóo's own complaints. But above these considerations, I understand, Mr Erkoreka, and from the respect that you know we have, personal – but, well, this is not relevant in this House – but also political respect, which you probably like more parliamentaryism, likes more the Legislature than the Executive, and ultimately also tends to act as a spokesman for the opposition. We're going to help you, we want to help you. We want to help you get back in the opposition, but this is going to take a while. Meanwhile, we also want to help you carry out your governance responsibilities well. And we want to tell you that the information... Of course, a political leader, and above all his size – and understand that there is no irony in my words – then, when it comes to manifesting himself, and especially in the national media (also in the Basques, obviously), we believe, and you are sure to share it with me, that he has to manifest himself with some rigour. Because one thing is what we say in the rostrum, which also has to be rigour, but well, it's subject to more velocities, isn't it? (What are we going to tell each other here!), but when one governs, one has to speak more rigorously. So, we want to help you and we want to tie your shoulder. Mr. Alonso told you earlier, and I repeat. Let us focus on Basque politics, Mr Erkoreka. Let go of the rumors, of what others say, of what... Let's focus on Basque politics. Because the Valencians are going to be able to complain about the high-speed train too, aren't they? Doesn't seem to make much sense to that complaint. We tell you that if you focus on Basque politics, you present budgets next week in which above these dimes and directs are addressed important infrastructures such as the metro line in Bilbao; as the modernization, for example, also of the Euskotren service in Gipuzkoa; rationalization and modernization of the public administration..., you will have the People's Party. But let us transcend from the zurrumurrus these, from the rumors, from the manifestations that make each other, and let us focus on the objective, and so we certainly have much more capacity for agreement and dialogue, Mr Erkoreka.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. It has not been made clear to me, Mr Semper, whether you are willing to hold your shoulder to approve the budget or to cast us off to the opposition, that I have not seen exactly what the coherence between the two is. In any case, I can also provide you with a lot of objective data on the discrimination against which Euskadi and other territories have been subjected in relation to Galicia in the chapter on investments in high-speed trains. But frankly... Look, tomorrow the minister will come to Donostia, I understand. She's having an interview with the branch counselor. I believe that citizenship, rather than discussing these minor cuitas... I insist that you are referring to an anecdotal aspect. You haven't read my speech, you can tell! He hasn't read it, the intervention! Then, it has not been recorded that I made that reference because my intervention occurred immediately after that of the president of Galicia, who, when it was Spanish Television, controlled by the PP, had a much longer interview than mine. [[Barres]] and proudly explained the result of its management and guaranteed that the works in Galicia will be completed in 2019. And in Euskadi, unfortunately, no one is in a position to say that they are neither in 2019 nor 2020, nor in 2021, nor in 2022, nor probably in 2023. Therefore, citizenship wants us better by collaborating. Therefore, as tomorrow the counselor will be with the minister and surely you will try to look for a little moment to take the photo with him, help him to convince him that he has to give priority to the Basque Y, which also suits him well, because it is henchman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Laritz College EH Collectors of the Union, made for the development of Economics, and the head physician of the Sub-Songs, about a high-speed train." Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u57	Good morning, chief. Partners, members of the legislature. Good morning, counselors. This last discussion struck me as the two of us are the most universal. I mean, we're from Airbag, saying, "I'm mism te digo una cosa que te digo la ostra." I have a feeling that we are promoting this subject over and over again, "lo mism te digo una cosa que te digo la ostra": the third rail, that euphorka Y shall be a railway for the merchandise, a train for travellers; with Europe that binds us, with half-breeds that will connect us; whether it will be a kind of submission to progress, to work, and to economic development... In front of that there are more and more voices that say when a public investment is made, and especially when an investment is made in a public infrastructure, it is necessary to consider the cost and the profits. The stocks of construction, which in this case are in some degree encrypted in 6,000 million euros, will have been raised to a 10,000, with the material of the solace, to the extent of which they will be retained; and those which are more difficult to appreciate, but which are interesting. And with them, we must tax the profits in order to make up our minds to be able to make any public project. They can be economic tunes or socials, and, according to them, we must compare them with the concept of income and social efficiency, with a work, a construction, or a infrastructure. This appears to me to be an act of policy, which is precisely what the Spanish Government has decided to do. It's the second country of the world in this infrastructure as far as miles are concerned, and it's becoming more and more interesting by scientific sectors, but even by official sectors. In other words, the President of the Adife hesitates in 2014 on the income of the project, and the economic competency, or even the State Court hesitates in 2015. The European Committee has also suggested to the Spanish State that it must, in some measure, form an independent observatory in order to examine the possibility and attractions of this work. And where's Euskal Autonomy Er-Grenide and where's the Red Beetle? You know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, like, "You know, it's like, you know, you know, like, "You know, it's like, like, "You know, you know, it's just like," like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you And I see at this moment the department of the Arncha Tap, or Counsellor, that is to say, with all the will to proceed with the will of a work proposed by Spain. I've known you before, and since I took a piece of your wallet and rented a lot of what you did in public transport, I'm really surprised that you're in a position to continue with this project, seeing that it's more scientific and academic sectors that question this play.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to the presidents, chiefs, and congressmen. You know, you're saying "Jag" to me, that we're insisting. Not guilty, I'm sure. Believed, because, as a government, this decision is really thought out, it has been verified in highly respected reports, and also because this legislature has protected it by majority. After all, we're talking about nationalization, yes, and a infrastructure that encourages internal shock. We could put on some of the strategic substructure, and besides, what the Government of Madrid pays, and what the European Union really contributes to money, because it really is of great importance to us. And let's not confuse, as the Count Erkorea said, the entire velocity infrastructure in Spain and the contribution of Euska Y. Besides, we advance our money using the cup (and here the President has also acted on it), and we use a trade that no one has, because we are really doing the popular business. Our Basque Y is not defined by us, Europe itself defines it to be a really primitive project. It's time for us to connect with France because someone decided we should stay out of France. He connects us to the north, the Navarro. There's so many things going on. And we're really proud of a tool of ours, a cup and a concert, because we're using it for popular education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u61	I wouldn't think it's popular education to put such expensive resources on other services. For instance, in the case of Interity, we know that, according to your data, the ECTAB is 0,66%,5% of Intercity Travels. You know that most passengers are college students, those students would never pay at least 10 euros when they pay 6,6 francs for their first trip. When we talk about the cost of construction costs, the cost of 10,000 million euros. Maintenance rate: We know you're based on the benefits you make, and we know that petitioning costs are much lower than they always do at the end, and they'd make a two-hundred million trips a year, and that would assume that with a bill of $10 million they'd have to put 40 million euros every year to maintain this subsidy structure...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte, your time is up. No, no, your time is up. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u63	Ugarte anderea, ez dago Europe osoan ha bezalako azpiegiturarik. There is no more audited and controlled work than this. The Gipuzcoan section is controlled by Europe itself, by the Spanish State, by the Basque Government. There is no doubt that money is well used and perfectly organized. And we also rely on our own tools to make it a reality, because we really believe that self-government and how to manage from here is better. It is not a question of ingraining, he said, of obstinacy. We want to do so, and we use all the channels of transparency that are enabled to do so, but also the ability to govern or the need to govern is – when the ballot boxes give us the ability to do so and they endorse us – to make the right decisions. This project has been discussed democratically by some, while by others it has, of course, been aggressively and violently answered. Unfortunately, we will never forget the style and level of debate that some people wanted to impose in this country, but, I insist – and you yourself have taken it to its proper place – this debate is overtaken. The debate now, what society asks of us, the concern of all, is at what time and how it will reach our capitals; when it will connect us with Iparralde, with France (because we will reach Irun); when it will connect us with Navarra, under what conditions (with Nafarroa, with Iruna); indeed, when we will have intercity and long distance services. That is the debate and that is the concern of society, and that is what we have to devote ourselves to. And leave us, of course, with past scenarios, which you want to recover, when, of course, you set it in motion in a way that is not excessively democratic. Now, democratically, here, what society is asking of us is how, when, under what conditions, and that we are really skilled and that we respond to needs. Because it is true that the infrastructures we have have to improve, but this is complementary and responds to different needs. You know it as well as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the gigantic abbey of Eva Lopez de Laribe de Matuna EHGGGGDs, the development of Economics and the department of the Sub-Series, which they want to make in Sorian." Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The debate on new infrastructures or large infrastructures, forgive me, but it will never be over. I don't think the debate will ever be too much. 20,000 cows. Strange, but they're going to make a twenty-thousand-animal domestic or macronist near here, Sorian, not more than 200 miles away. The unions, social agents, and, of course, most of the peasants have turned up against what would happen. In our opinion, such enormous businesses are only for the sake of a few, as in others. They transform cattle into nothing but business and industry, risking environments, forgetting respect for animals, and leading to peasant life. What does the Government think of this pattern or of this subject? And on the other hand, does he have this threat to protect the life project of the Negroes, the milkmakers, and many families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u66	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u67	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. It's good to discuss Sorian. As to the question, I'm going to say round no, we don't protect such an abelts or such infrastructure, of course. And not because we have no doubt, but because the negation is round, we say; and because our activities say so, and not the present, but those which have been done for many years. The first sector, for us, is a economic sector, and as far as economic sector, it must be competitive, of course, and also has to be a professional sector. And that's what we've been talking about, putting so many measures and activities in motion. Why? Because we also know that our sector needs different resources because the situation is different. The Orography is very complicated. You know almost everything is qualified as a mountain. That's supposed to be an added problem. This exposure increases problems and farmland has a lot of pressure too. So that's what we've been doing. The policies that the Government has promoted in recent years, in the past twenty-five years in addition, bear witness to this. As an example, I will comment on a few things. Areas that have been worked on: sectoral restructuring, livestock consolidation in many farms, genetic improvement in our livestock so that they are more productive and that people living in that sector can actually do so; we have also given specific advice to these farms, with specific management centres, on a continuous basis, and, in addition to training and management centres, all this technological research that is carried out in the specific centres is transferred to those places. Agricultural policy has also made progress in terms of environmental management. Therefore, that is the way to work, and we will continue to work with agrarian policy. We are not going to do this by obviating the necessary professionalization of the sector and its competitiveness, but by supporting above all those families working in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u69	Well, I'll scream. I like to hear a non-rotundo. The truth is that it is difficult for this Government to speak on a number of issues and on many issues, but today I have heard a no-fly, so I trust that. In this case the truth is that we were concerned, and in fact we are concerned about the answer, because we have to lead a clear opposition, we have to lead it. They'll deal with so many things... Well, in this case a clear opposition to this model. But the industrial model we were talking about, 20,000 cows, here... , less bad to the mountains!, it seems I have heard, right? There is also an industrial model here, and in those industrial models, which do not require 20,000 cows, is where animals cease to be animals, where workers are not livestock, and become numbers only. In fact, this macrorange isn't even... well, actually this isn't even a macrorange, not even a farm. It is a monster, it is a brutal environmental impact, not only towards the environment, but also towards people and the market. Let's not forget that this is going to go down, it's going to drop prices, isn't it? This type of intensive farms (as I said, with fewer animals are also intensive; there is no need to put a number of 20,000, with much less here we also have them very close) put at risk everything around them. They need, to say the least, 6 million litres of water a day. I don't want to think about how much purin they're going to produce, or what they're going to do, or how they're going to do it with purin. The environment, of course, is a catastrophe. So today we ask for two things. On the one hand, to the Administration, that it is not complicit in these types of projects, nor of some intensive models that we also have already and we have them right here in addition. Asking for responsibility and clear pronouncements, which, in truth, is nothing original, but it's not up to me today to be original, it's just up to me to be predictable, if you want, isn't it? On the other hand, responsibility, of course, to protect the already deteriorated primary sector. He said there's been a bet in the last 25 years. True: the last twenty-five years in which the restructuring has been brutal, which, to say the least, in the last year and a half in the Spanish state have fallen 2,000 farms! I don't know if that's sector support. Secondly, I am also going to ask for responsibility from society, because, since we are part of it, we are also in some way responsible. In his hand he is consuming with common sense, in everyone's hand and everyone is knowing what we are eating, knowing where the products come from, how they are produced... I would call it social traceability: what we are eating, where it comes from and who produces it. In that case, I also believe that society has a lot to say, and where it is going to buy milk that comes out of our meadows as well. I'm finishing up. This farm, of course, "it's not milk", a campaign that the unions pull out, and of course, we're going to support it. In any case, it is going to be a milk tsunami, a tsunami that is going to flood the current market with milk and that is going to create more than unworthy conditions, not only for people working on farms, but for animals. It is a way of producing that will end the way of life of many people who care, who keep not only the land, the peoples and the culture. So I would only ask you, in the last few seconds, Mrs Tapia, to declare our territory free of industrial models, on which smaller farms also belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u70	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u71	Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, the "free of industrial models" is going to have to explain it to me a little better, because if we say that it is really an economic sector and a sector that has to be profitable, then perhaps the industrial model is not so bad, in the sense of what the industrial model of form of work and professionalization means. I'm not talking about dimension. The industry can be big, small, medium... and terrible sometimes. Our mines of mines generally have about 26 heads in general, and, therefore, we do not pretend to say that they are terrible. And it's true that families are mostly the owners of these exploitations. And our work has been directed to them. Why? Because, small as they were, they had great complications to compete in the market. And, therefore, we have tried to structure the sector (but not now, a long time ago) through cooperatives, farmers' associations, as you well know, and thanks to that the dairy sector, which has seen itself in many problems over the past year... And you were telling me that 2,000 have disappeared in the Spanish state, you were telling me... I believe that responsibility in the Spanish State has not yet given me, but good. We will try to work with our own, who have also had difficulties and problems. Through all those milk quota suppression actions that have taken place in Europe, our sector has also been convulsed; however, thanks to this work in cooperatives and associations, our system is still functioning a little better and, in some way, these families can continue to live. The price paid per litre of milk is much higher than elsewhere. And thanks for the support, of course, that our families, our distribution chains, buy local product and continue to promote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Konörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of Eplegus and Polylic Society, on the reductions of the Basque family." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. The president is gone. It's like when I get out of this tribe and talk about important matters, he always leaves. The same thing happened to me when I talked about jobs. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, congressmen. It is clear that family politics are not a priority for this government, and they ought to be a priority, and we doubt it. But at the same time I'm going to say that pushing family policy is a priority to Popular Party. We formulated this question from the Group of the European People's Party – the first face-to-face, Madam Counsellor, I have with you – in relation to an absolutely priority issue, and that we felt that it had to be absolutely priority in the action to be taken by that Government, not only over these four years, in this parliamentary term that we have begun, but that it had to have been a priority over the past four years. But we have many doubts about this, because of the events that have taken place over the past four years in relation to family policies and the concrete measures that this Government has not taken. The Ararteko report on family support policies in Euskadi of 2014 is, of course, a very graphic X-ray of the situation of family policies in Euskadi. There is no doubt that they call optimism for nothing. We are told in this report things that we already know but which are reflected in data, such as that the birth rate is the lowest not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe, and that this issue is directly related to the difficulties families have for reconciliation. We are talking about the age of emancipation, with emancipation rates more delayed than elsewhere; how 30-40% of young people under the age of thirty-four have not been able to start a life-saving project of their own. Reference is also made to another very striking fact: how 17% of families with a head less than thirty-five years old do not have the children they would like, for economic reasons or because they cannot care for their children in the way they want. The European Social Charter in Article 16 also recognizes, in the area of the right to the family, the importance of social, legal and economic protection. With regard to the legal framework, the Family Support Act (Act No. 13/2008 of 12 December 2008) is in force in Euskadi, which undoubtedly provides a framework and the basis for the design of this comprehensive policy, aimed at improving the quality of life of Basque families and the lives, ultimately, of families and their members. Therefore, the public authorities have an explicit mandate to establish this appropriate framework with comprehensive policies to support families, including, without doubt, economic support measures to enable families to meet all needs related to childcare. Thus, in this same law, as you, counselor, well know, there is a specific title on measures of protection, care and support to families. A first chapter on financial support for families with children and a second chapter on aid for reconciliation. This law of 2008 has subsequently been developed in numerous decrees. But we have to say, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and that is why we have found it opportune to bring a debate that concerns the Basque citizens, that of the measures that this government can push in relation to family policies, taking into account the structural problems that we have with birth in Euskadi, the birth rates, the ageing of the population... We have to say clearly that, instead of going forward, along the lines set out in this Ararteko report – which is also 2014 and you have had time to do that reflection, and to put measures in line with the conclusions and recommendations expressed in that report – we have to say from the People's Group that, instead of going forward, you have done that reflection, a diagnosis and adoption of concrete measures, to the contrary. This has been very striking when Mr Urkullu, during the past legislature and at the beginning of the legislature, pointed out that the Government (his Government, the Government he presided over) was the Government of the people. And, although Mr Urkullu's was the people's government, and he had as his primary axis the government's actions and its political action towards people, it must be said clearly that in family policy over the last four years, Mrs Artolazabal, we have retreated. Look, on the one hand, there has been no progress in line with the recommendations of the Ararteko report, and this report is from 2014. There have been cuts in specific aid for Basque families, in conciliation aid. In the 2014 budget, the budgeted amount for conciliation aid was EUR 17.3 million, i.e. half of the budgeted amount in previous budgets. But it is not that the budgeted amount was half in Urkullu's first budgets in relation to the conciliation policies in the specific heading, in relation to the previous budgets, which fell by half, as I am saying, but that you had to close the tap... Obviously, by halving the budget, you were unable to meet all the requests, and you had to issue a specific resolution after the exhaustion of the credit. But also with that amount that you had planned, of 17.3 million euros, it only came to you to meet the requests of two months, the months of January and February. Although you subsequently tried to amend this situation, it is certainly a situation that you dragged away, because you had to pay for all those requests that have remained unanswered since 2014, the first year of Mr Urkullu's government. Moreover, in the four successive budgets of Mr Urkullu, of the Basque Government, the amount of aid, subsidies and economic benefits has been reduced. This has been reflected in an additional provision accompanying all the budgets that we have approved, which this House approved in the last parliamentary term. In other words, family and conciliation aid were specifically cut by an additional provision. You have met nothing of the objectives set, or very few of the objectives set in relation to the ambitions and the improvement of the economic measures set out in the Inter-Agency Family Support Plan. But I'm just gonna tell him more. In the last parliamentary term, in March, this group and this Member of Parliament made an inquiry to the then councillor, Toña, about what would happen once the III Plan of Institutional Support for Families, with the fourth plan, came into force. And the advisor told us that you were working on an ambitious family plan, on a new strategy, on a multi-annual, interdepartmental and inter-institutional strategic plan, the draft of which was already in the possession of the Basque Government. I do not know if Mr Toña has passed that draft strategic plan to you, Madam Counsellor, in the transfer of powers. I imagine it would be the same strategic plan that Mr Urkullu announced to us also in March, about a days of shared paternity in Vitoria in which he was also accompanied by Mr Toña, in which he announced a four-year investment of 200 million euros to improve the situation of Basque families. I don't know if he was referring to the same plan, or that announcement we're going to leave him in a mere announcement of electoral propaganda, considering that we had the elections around the corner. That is why, Madam Councillor, we have a lot of doubts that you are pushing the absolutely necessary family policies in Euskadi over the next four years. You yourself recently, in your appearance regarding the explanation of the master lines of your department, pointed out that you were going to increase up to 50% of the money to guarantee the minimum resources to families. Of course, we will be very careful in the budgets, because it did not offer greater results. In view of all this, you will understand that we do not create much in relation to the family policies of this Government, and that is why we have asked you from the People's Group: whether it is the Government's intention to continue with the cuts suffered by Basque families over the last four years of the Urkullu Government's legislature; whether they are going to continue with those cuts, or they are not going to continue with those cuts. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u74	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u75	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good days. I share with you, Mrs Garrido, the importance that the family has, and I believe that the family is the institution that will bring our society together and over time is adapting to the changes and advances that we are experiencing. I remind you, Mrs Garrido, that birth aid is considered a subjective right, so your claim that there has been a cut is not true, nor can it be given. This aid is granted to all those families who are entitled to it. In particular, the number of conciliation aid has increased over the past year 2016, placing us at levels similar to 2013. More than 31,000 files have been managed and processed. As regards the cases concerning aid for sons and daughters, these are similar to those carried out in recent years, an average of 32,000 cases. Please note that the decrees regulating family support have incorporated the standardized income perspective into their regulation. In this way, a common and weighted parameter is created for the calculation of family income, and thus a more equitable treatment is given to the different types and situations of family in those economic aid or support services for families where the economic level of income of the family unit acts either as a condition of access or as a criterion for determining the amount. This is in line with the idea that the same level of income does not offer similar economic capacity to family units of different composition. Social entities operating in the family sector recognize the benefits of implementing this new model, which they believe could be adopted by other systems. This improvement in the decrees led to a change in the procedure, and, thanks to the effort of the department, the delays have been overcome today and we find ourselves with the same level of resolution as before the amendments. I think it is clear that when we talk about support for families, we must not limit ourselves to economic aid. A broad vision is needed that responds to the needs of all families. In addition to changes in family structures, there has been a silent revolution involving women and their access to full social participation, which has generated side effects, such as the fall of birth and the delay in the age of mating and fertility. To this must be added an important handicap: the slowness with which men are involved in participating in domestic work or in caring for dependent people within couples. Responsibility continues to fall on women, and more intensely when they are either unoccupied or have a part-time contract. The result is that women who seek reconciliation strategies for family and work life are forced to leave or adjust paid work; to reduce the number of children or not to have them; and to seek a support service, both domestic, for household chores, as well as care for dependent family members. As is the case in the countries of the most advanced Europe, this is the demographic and sociological scenario in which we are currently in Euskadi, aggravated by the economic crisis that we have suffered. In Euskadi, the birth rate has been reduced again, reaching 2002 levels. For example, reductions of 2.8% and 2.1%, respectively, were recorded in 2015 and 2016, and it is clear that the fall in birth rates is closely linked to the economic cycle. The root cause of low fertility is related to the conditions that favour or impede the birth of the second and subsequent children, because the problems of conciliation, relatively limited to one child, increase decisively with two and more children. Collective preferences are articulated by having two children, which would require childcare services as an essential means to reduce the opportunity costs of motherhood; with quality care that does not expel low-income mothers from the labour market; with maternity leave that, because it is short or long, does not inhibit return to work; and with income support through family allowances. Each new daughter or child is expected to result in a 20% increase in family consumption. Everything that affects the lives of individuals and families and their prospects for the future has an impact on the decision of couples and women on the time to face parenthood and motherhood, on the number of children they want to have. At this point, we understand that birth support policies are directly linked to family support policies, and that the areas of action cover all government action in this department and the rest of the institutions, such as promoting quality employment, equal access for women to all areas of activity, education, health care, day care, working hours that facilitate reconciliation, paternity and maternity leave, and even transportation. That is why we believe that the debate on family support measures must go beyond economic aid. It is true that the bulk of the family budget is allocated to these aids (27.5 million grants per birth and 32.5 million to conciliation), but I would also like to highlight the parenting and co-responsible conciliation programmes that are being carried out from the department. We have begun a process of reflection on this issue, which we intend to go beyond the mere budgetary forecast of a certain financial aid to the family according to the number of children. Economic aid is always welcome, but its effect needs to be assessed; whether it is socially more appropriate to invest in all families equally or those with economic difficulties, or whether it is more effective to provide aid for reconciliation than aid for children. The model of expenditure on economic benefits in support of low-income families in Euskadi presents, as a whole, a level of protection comparable to that of the countries of the European Union in our environment. Our challenge is also to articulate measures to support middle income. But the problem lies in the tensions between work and family. The discussion before was how to ensure that working women had children. Today the debate is less natal, and the formulation of the problem would be how to ensure that women who want to have children do not have to sacrifice their professional career to have them. The basic objective is to support parents in the exercise of their role, facilitating the generation of a positive family environment. The available scientific literature suggests that improving parental capacities relates to better outcomes for the well-being of children. Our efforts will be aimed at preventing the transmission of disadvantages between generations. We are convinced that it represents a crucial investment for the future of Europe and of Euskadi, as well as a direct contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy, so that it is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. This has long-term benefits for children, the economy and society as a whole. It is fair, profitable, and benefits everyone, as it promotes economic and social development by increasing productivity and ensuring sustainable growth. The aim of this department to support families is to increase aid for families with children by up to 50% over this term. For all that I have said, Mrs Garrido, I believe that the statement you make is not true: there have been no cuts during the last parliamentary term. You haven't given all the complete information. It is true that in the 2014 Budget there was a decrease in contributions under the conciliation heading, which reached 17,300,000, but over the past parliamentary term the Basque Government made an effort that materialized in the following budgets, increasing the amount in the 2015 Budget to 31,377,000 euros, and in the 2016 Budget to 32.577,000 euros. That is, we went from 17 million to 32.5 million. Say it all, Mrs. Garrido. In addition, in the area of support to families, as you well know, it is a subjective right by which all those requests made by families for the birth of their children must be met. We have made an important effort from the department to update the claims that had been delayed, and at this time I can assure you that we are at levels similar to those that were being made in previous years, with 32,700 files paid in 2016, similar to those that were being produced in 2014 and those that were made in 2015. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, the effort of this Government, and from the lehendakari to the head, is to bet on families. During 2017 we will carry out that strategy that I announced in the appearance, which will determine us and design us what are the strategic lines and the economic contributions that we will have to make in successive budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs Artolazabal, I'm sorry that the lehendakari is not yet there, because I think this was an interesting debate, especially for a government whose priority is people. But forgive me for telling you that no credibility. He can't have, and this group can't have credibility, or Basque citizenship, in a government... You are telling us here that you are going to increase the aid by 50%, when we are seeing that you are not systematically meeting the forecasts set out in the budgets themselves, and then you have to come with cuts and budget failures, as you did in 2014, when the balance of the conciliation aid was halved. In fact, birth aid is a subjective duty, but that does not mean that it is not subject to the 7 % cut, as is also the income guarantee income aid, which is subject to the 7 % cut. If not, please review the additional provision in all budgets, which deals with cuts in aid, subsidies and economic benefits, and also makes an express reference to aid for conciliation and income-guarantee subsidies, the economic benefits provided for in this law, which are also subjective rights. Therefore, being a subjective right has not ensured that this Government has not made any cuts in birth aid. But I'm telling you, we're referring to the facts. We cannot have confidence in a government that in the first budget, saying that it was the people's government, cuts conciliation aid by half; that there is a situation, in successive budgets, of having to meet all the requests that were left unanswered, because you lowered the blind (and it was in August, and you stopped meeting the requests since February). In other words, only those of the first two months attended that year. On the other hand, the 7 % cut, which you so criticized the Patxi López government, you kept in the four budgets. And also in the GIR, which is subjective law, and also in birth aid, which is subjective law, and in aid for conciliation expressly. Of course, you will not pretend that we believe in the intentions of this Executive, when we are recently announced by the Azpiazu Council that they need more resources to meet social needs. And you're announcing here today that we're going to increase the aid by 50%. I want you today in this rostrum... And if not, of course, we will have an opportunity to see this in the next budgets that you are going to send to the House soon; therefore, I imagine that you will have the figures in your head and you will be able to even advance us today, that 50%, in what will be seen in the specific headings that relate to family policies. And also, and if there are those items that are increased by that 50%, if you here today acquire a commitment, in conciliation aid, not to cut those items and not to issue a resolution as Mr Urkullu and his Executive (in which you are now the Social Affairs and Employment Adviser), a resolution that, once the item was exhausted, the item was exhausted, which was already, as I say, halved. Therefore, we see again too much complacency, because you fail to keep your own promises. That is, a government that stands in the people's government cannot reach the first of change, and that where it establishes cuts and these budgetary adjustments due to budget inefficiencies is in social and family policies. Therefore, little credibility when a government fails to deliver on its own promises, and when a government makes absolutely electoral, propagandistic announcements, they are carried away by the wind. Because Mr Lehendakari told us about a multi-year investment strategy to support families worth 200 million euros that we do not know where he is, and that is what Mr Toña, his predecessor, said in this House that he had a draft. That is why, Commissioner – and I am finalising – I think it is important that we know clearly the intentions of this government. But not only what is going to be in the budgets, but what is the family policy that this Government is going to design for the last four years; what are its intentions, whether to increase allocations or not, but then also to meet the corresponding budget amounts. What model are you going to follow? I believe that our President has said this to you in the first question he has put very clearly. You must have clear priorities, and the priorities for the People's Party are very clear. Today we have left one here on the table: family policies, and don't go on with the cuts. If they go along that line, we can meet, but, of course, if they continue as they have so far it will be difficult to meet. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u78	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Garrido, we get lessons from the one who has something to teach us. When you say 7% cut, I want to remind you that that cut occurred with the Patxi López government, but with the support of the People's Party. Yes! I would like to remind you that this government was supported and that the 7% cut-off measure could be carried out because the People's Party supported that cut. I remind you, Mrs Garrido, that birth aid is a subjective right, and that therefore it is still being taken care of and has continued to be taken care of. When you speak, you should have rigour in using the economic data that appear in the budgets, because they are important. In 2013 there were amounts paid in the amount of 20 million euros; in 2014 there were 29 million euros (9,600,000 more); in 2015 there was a decrease, but it is caused by the low birth rate, because there are not enough demands, because the demands are met, and in 2016 these needs will be met in more than 32,000 files, which are all we have received. Everyone we've received. There has been an effort on the part of the department to update all those initiatives and requests made by families. As for the initial steps in implementation, there was also a situation that we have to take into account, which was the use of standardized income in order to be able to carry out the award of the quantities. The system for the standardization of family income, which is amended in 2015, weighs family income according to the number of members and their composition, for those aids or services to support families whose access and criteria for the amount of the benefit are conditioned by the unit of family income, as mentioned above. And this is also a demand that the collectives and family associations, which work in the field of large families in particular, have asked us, congratulated us, and asked us to extend it to a number of other issues that have to do with benefits that can be provided by departments and institutions. I insist and remind you, Mrs Garrido, that one of the main objectives of this government is the families, that the lehendakari has so stated, that moreover the facts show that this is the case; that in the conciliation part, even recognizing that this cut or adjustment occurred in the budget, over the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 has been updated to the figures that already came from the previous years, and that the budget in 2016 has been 32,577,000 euros, and that the files analyzed and processed have been 31,357, number equal to or greater than those that had been processed in the previous years. Experience has shown us that there can be no direct relationship between the provision of financial benefits to families and children and the increase in birth rate. I told him in the committee when I came to present the government program and announced that only through timely economic aid would Basque families not increase their birth rate; that we had to make a cultural change in which everyone (economic agents, social actors and institutions) would be involved in carrying out that change. And that change of culture and habits on the part of everyone requires effort and time. Men and women, institutions and businesses, we need to be able to work in the area of conciliation so that it is co-responsible and equitable. I will not repeat to you, Mrs. Garrido, what I have already explained to you in my appearance. Investing in the family and investing in children means reducing the social inequality linked to the structure. Support for families is essential for this Government, and this Government and the previous Government have doubled and consolidated the levels of investment in families from 17 million to 32 million in conciliation aid. For us, for this Government, the family will be one of the priorities. During 2017 we will carry out a Basque strategy, which will determine the lines of action, and throughout the legislature we will increase the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Eplegus and Societys, to stand up to the emergency services of the SOS Deïcs." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. As you know, Mrs. San José, last November the emergency service telephone workers of SOS Deiak-112 called several strike days for the months of November and December 2016 and January of the current year 2017. My question is whether you consider that the establishment of minimum services of 100 per cent, in that case by the Councillor Mr Toña, respects the right to strike of these workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u83	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Hernández, in the question you are asking, it seems that you are seeking to establish a contradiction between the right to strike and the minimum services established for the call in Lanalden SA. Go ahead, this counselor firmly believes in the right to strike, and she will never issue an order that violates that right. Secondly, the order regulating minimum services has not been appealed, and has not been appealed because it complies with the provisions for the determination of minimum services in activities defined as essential. The Constitutional Court sought a definition of essential services that has created jurisprudence and has been invoked in subsequent judgements. And that judgment states: "For service to be essential, satisfied goods and interests must be essential. Fundamental rights, public freedoms and protected constitutional property must be considered as essential goods and interests." I have to admit to you, Your Honor, that one of the difficulties of the Spanish system and the constitutional case law on this matter, which is the strike, is precisely the delimitation of these essential services, but I believe that, despite what has been said, you and I will agree that the attention of the telephone numbers of emergencies and emergencies is essential in order to respond to vital needs. And that is why the attention of public order emergencies (bombs, police, gender-based violence, civil protection, maritime rescue, health services emergencies and other similar) is an essential service for the community. In other words, the emergency phone is answered or not answered 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. There's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u84	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u85	Eskerrik asko for his answer. I am not going to discuss laws and jurisprudence like you, because you know more than I do, and surely that is why you also know that in 2016 there have been several judgments in Andalusia, Catalonia, Madrid..., which in absolutely similar cases have said that there was an abuse in the establishment of minimum services of 100 percent. We do not question the need to establish minimum services. What we do question is that these minimum services have had to be one hundred per cent, because we do not share the Government's argument that they cannot be respected, those other rights that supposedly have to guarantee emergency services, which cannot be guaranteed with minimum services less than one hundred per cent. We have two concerns about this issue. First of all, what we consider... Because we think that if you go out on the street and ask anyone with a minimum of common sense, and tell you that some workers have called a strike to claim their working conditions and on strike days can not miss a minute to the work day, most people will understand that they are not being allowed to exercise the right to strike. And we share this view, which seems logical to us, and we are therefore concerned in the first place that we believe that the right to strike of workers is being violated. We believe that a principle of balance has not been taken into account when arguing that it contravened different rights. We believe that the only right that has finally been curtailed, in this confrontation of rights, is the right to strike, which is a fundamental right. Secondly, we are concerned, and we have already brought it to this House, about the working conditions of these workers, who have ultimately led them to strike. Because the truth is that from a very small age the older trade unionists taught me that the strike, in addition to being a fundamental tool we had to defend our rights, was, let's say, the last tool we used when we had not been heard in any field and none of the things we had previously done had been heard. I am therefore convinced that these women workers have gone on strike because their working conditions are indeed very precarious. And here is the contradiction of the Government, that I know you have no responsibility yet in this, but the contradiction of a government that considers the services these employees provide to be essential services, to the extent that it does not allow them to strike anything, and at the same time allows them to be in precarious working conditions. A government that, therefore, understands that essential services can be served by some people, by women workers in precarious conditions. The truth is that, certainly because of my naive nature, I came here in the hope that you would not share the view of the previous Government. However, I appeal that in similar forthcoming calls the right to strike of workers should not be curtailed by such arguments, or by any other argument, because I do not believe that it is possible to defend that workers are not entitled to strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u87	Look, Mr Hernández, since 2010, apart from the one I mentioned on 15 November, eight minimum service orders have been issued in the SOS Deiak services. In all of them, the minimum services are 100 per cent. Some state that the staff is the equivalent of a holiday, in which, in the case that occupies us, the number of people working is the same as from Monday to Thursday (on Friday and Saturday there are even two more people on the night shift). In the order of November 15th, it was said – as in some previous one – that the service of strike days should be provided by the usual staff of each shift. I insist, Your Honor, the reason for dictating these minimum services lies in the character of the service, and not in a position on the strike. I am sure that the reasons for your call have not been evaluated when drawing up the order of minimum services, and the claims that have been made I will not assess them now either. The Government is a guarantor of workers'rights; it is also a guarantor of collective bargaining, which is the responsibility of employers and trade union representatives. And now, as I believe it has already become clear to you a few days ago through the groups that support the Government, we will be doubly so, because the Social Clauses Act will allow us to ensure, in the recruitment of the service, the agreement that the two sides legitimately reach.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u88	Thank you, Mrs. San José. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea of Basterrechea of the Basque Groups of Popula, was made by Ogasun and the head physician of economics as to how to raise taxes on the Basques." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Azpiazu, yesterday we had a calm fiscal debate, and today we intend to continue with the same calm in the question we ask you, about some statements you made last week I will tell you that somewhat surprising, because you were telling us that you needed more money, that you had to raise the tax burden, and basically, from what I read in the press, you were talking about corporation tax. And I tell you amazing because, as far as I know, you keep for 2017 the revenue and collection forecast that you agreed in October 2016. I heard Lehendakari this morning, and he's going to bring us some budgets that are going to increase health, education, investment, promoting employment... that is, everything. I have just heard from the Councilwoman for Employment and Social Aid, and she has told us that she is going to increase spending by 50%... And, therefore, I am surprised that you need more money, with the forecasts that the lehendakari and the counselor have just made us from that wonderful budget that you are going to bring us. I will tell you that, in the end, we agree with that appreciation that you made of lowering the corporate tax rate from 28 to 25, because it is clear that it discourages investment, and therefore we, if you are willing to raise it, will support you in doing so. But that's why I'm asking you how you expect to raise more. And, man, also the novelty is why, if they're going to bring us some budgets where they don't need any more money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u91	President andrea. Mr Damborenea, also with all calmness, we are going to make some budgets that are going to grow very little, and it is going to surprise you how we are going to meet the government's commitments. But it is an objective fact, in any case, that fiscal pressure has fallen from the year 2007 by 2.2 points to the present, and in this period of severe recession the Government has had to sustain and finance an increasing expenditure, mainly arising from the provision of social services, such as health or social protection, and has had to reduce the public deficit. A deficit peaked in 2009, at 3.9%, due to the collapse of the four-point fiscal pressure. The Government cannot and should not reduce public services in crisis, because it has a stake in stabilising the economy and protecting people, as Lehendakari has indicated today. And that's what we're doing and that's what we're going to keep doing. In this context, my only intention is to reflect on the need to review the tax system in order to have sufficient resources to carry out the public policies that the Government considers to be priorities, which are the impetus for economic activity and job creation, as well as the improvement of social policies. This is our responsibility, this is the responsibility of the Government. After the Basque Finance Council, we have an X-ray, as you well know, of the situation. The discourse should not be limited to corporate tax, although it cannot be denied that it fell by 3.5% in 2016 either. Following the adoption of the 2013 fora rules, there has been an intense debate, as you know, on corporate taxation. I am referring, for example, to the OECD draft on erosion of tax bases and transfer of profits, and to the subsequent draft directives of the Council of the European Union. I believe that along this path we could make progress in order to achieve a more modern and homologable taxation to that of the countries in our environment, always from the interinstitutional consensus. This has nothing to do with SMEs and the real economy, which have and will have all the support of the Basque administrations. Therefore, Mr Damborenea, clarity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u93	Exactly, Mr. Counselor, clarity. If someone wants to raise the tax burden, it does not seem that corporate tax, which barely reaches 5% of the tax collection, is the tax that will significantly raise that tax burden, does it? At least with the data given to us from the Basque Finance Council itself. Sufficient resources. We all agree on that! Fiscal policy must provide public administrations with sufficient resources to provide the public services to which they are obliged and which citizens and those entitled deserve. Now, you can also spend less. Because, if in the end it turns out that this new government that's coming what it's doing since it's arrived is increasing the high office of the government, and that's increasing an expense, that I don't know why that has to be financed with new taxes, we won't agree there, Mr Azpiazu. Then we won't agree! And you can have more revenue by encouraging investment and expanding the contributory base! Why, when the advisor thinks that he needs more resources, does he not intend to encourage more businesses, to promote wealth, to encourage job creation, to encourage more taxpayers in all taxes (in the IRPF, in VAT...), to encourage more people to contribute than we are now? Because that's what we understand the government would have to do, not think about what taxes I raise the most. And, of course, clarity, indeed, for small businesses and the real economy and medium-sized enterprises. Basque companies now compete in inequality with the rest of Spanish companies, and you know it. If you yourself thought it was necessary to go down from 28 to 25! We raised that four years ago, but you didn't listen to us. And what we say is that: clarity. Such a measure, for example, would encourage and could attract investment. Why is someone going to invest here to pay the 28, when on other sites they pay the 20?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u95	Clarity, yes, Mr. Damborenea. The effective type, as you know, is not superior in Euskadi. And besides, if you have proposals to raise the collection in another way, I, perfectly, am delighted to point out what you tell me, and even try to carry them forward. But I am surprised that you are aware of these measures that I raised in a legislature in which Minister Montoro has made them, and even more drastic, the real flag of his tax reform. Nor do I understand the spokesman of your group, Mr Alonso, when he says that the collection of corporate tax in Euskadi is an extractive tax. Well, Mr Alonso, given that the corporate tax burden is much lower in Euskadi than in Spain, I do not know how you qualify the Spanish tax system. However, I hope you do not think that institutional management is an institutional improvisation. If anything has any good the economy is that numbers sing, and macroeconomic scenarios are what they are. And, of course, indeed, Euskadi is not an island in a global economy. But to conclude, and to try to clarify some issue, Mr Damborenea, the regulation of the agreed taxes we are all aware that they are the responsibility of the general boards of the historical territories, but the Government does have the capacity to propose tax initiatives in the Tax Coordination Body, and we will do so, in coordination with the outlaws, once the effects of the 2014 reform have been analysed. And, as you say, it would not be a matter of suppressing deductions, but of protecting tax bases from erosion and aggressive tax planning, which I consider to be detrimental to the vast majority of companies that have a consolidated business. Such an update should, in our view, make a more modern, fairer and more equitable tax, as many European countries do. From the government we will continue to support businesses and economic activity, as we have always done, without any doubt, because this is our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Juana de Bengoechea Esté Euspilla Group members of the High Educational Department, that you're funding professionals." Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. From my offer, your permission. We'd like to ask the head physician of the Board of Education what's a professional formation to finance his criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u98	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u99	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. I would like to explain to you, not knowing what it really is in the background of that question. In the first place, the funding of this kind of education is mainly overrated. For in the case of schemes held together by an unconstitutional formation, and when supported by scholarship, companies are themselves the ones that make a financial payment for the students who make a profession of it. The Department of Education does what it does is to support the training centres in expanding this model of training to the professional sectors and families that most need to work with it. To this end, we strengthen the work of the tutors and tutors of this training, so that at the start, launch and development of our dual FP model they can develop their work effectively and correctly. The funding of the department is aimed at strengthening the work of these tutors. The public FP establishes such support to centres that work dual FP projects through group and hour planning/teacher-teacher that is assigned to them. In the case of concerted centres, an annual order is published calling for grants to develop alternance vocational training programmes in private concerted centres in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The establishment of the amounts to be subsidised was carried out with the associations of private VET centres participating in the Basque Vocational Training Council. This subsidy is the result of distributing the planned budget allocation among the total number of persons participating in the programmes, provided that they do not exceed EUR 941 per pupil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u101	Thank you. Madam Counsellor, look, we have heard the Lehendakari say here today that the priority of Basque society, and also of the Basque Government, is "more and better employment". They're textual words, because I've pointed them out. And it turns out that few instruments are more useful for this than dual vocational training. I will give you data, which you surely know, but which perhaps Members of the House do not know. Let's see, let's keep in mind that dual training starts in 2012-2013. Every year, practically double the number of students attending this course. Let's see the students we have: right now we have, if I'm not mistaken, 1,283 students. These data we have had to pull out because they are updated to 2016-2017, and the only ones we have found from the counseling are from 2014-2015. We have 1,283 students, and the companies that are involved are 790. But the most important thing is to see the evolution: in public centers we started in 2012 with 67 companies involved, the following year 91, the next year 167. I mean, companies are getting this kind of training very, very well. And before I gave him public centers, and in the concerted centers the companies go from 40 to 42, and to 144. And this is your data, which is only until 2015. What does this mean? That few things we can do in Euskadi are more directly effective, both in education and in terms of employment and the economy. Because let me give you other data, which for us have been very important: in 2012 they got employment, after completing vocational training, 55% of the students, they had contracts, the following year 64, the following year 70%, and in the last year 77.2%. But the problem we have is that, apart from what Lanbide does, funding has dropped terribly per student, from 5,700 euros, with the 2,000 Lanbide, in 2013, to 2,700 in 2017 (from 5,700 to 2,700). Why? Because the amount is the same, and, as we see how successful it is in the number of students targeted, we are seeing that student funding is getting lower and lower. We ask you, please, to make an effort in this field, for a very simple reason (I think I have given the data): 77% of students hired, on promotion; more and more interested companies, and an issue with which we are focusing on education, employment and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u102	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u103	Mrs Bengoechea, I am really pleased with that interest and concern and bet on the vocational training you have shown. Indeed the data, then, yes, so they say, and I think we are really referents in vocational training. It's true that you said that it started in 2012-2013... No, no, Here in Euskadi began quite early. Vocational training began earlier, and indeed the first programs established, between 2008 and 2011, were Ikasi eta Lan, and then, from 2012, the Hezibi program. With regard to the data, I am not going to make the tour, because I do not have them here, but I can tell you that the increase from 2015-2016 to 2016-2017 in the number of students has been 80%, from 759 to 1,270, and in the number of companies an increase of 63%. It is really important the work that is being done, the involvement and really the bet that we all make, because, as you have said and so has the lehendakari, above all it is that we make a bet for employment. In relation to the companies you say we also have to take into account the sector of companies we have, mainly SMEs. We also know what it costs in this community to get the companies themselves involved, and they're really very involved and they're doing it. On time to financing, okay, okay. You said, we have a funding... You asked me the criteria. I've already told you the criteria. The criteria are agreed with companies, trade unions and centres at the Basque Vocational Training Council. That is, they are not data that we invent or that go according to the budget that we have at our disposal. I simply say to you that the criteria are already laid down in the Basque Vocational Training Council, they are agreed there. Public funding, according to these criteria, is in the department, and the funding of the concerted centres has to go out in order, with criteria approved there as well. And then there's the funding you're giving...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u104	Time's over, chief physician. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interadectition, members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to Cultura and the Chief of Language, in plans for knowing about 100 percent of the age below 20." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u105	Mme. President, members of the legislature, chief of departments, Mr. Zupiria, all good days. Today, if we were to be grateful to the chief physician, what plans he has for the 100 percent of the 20th year below, he would be the most logical and most natural in the 21st. that in the century, during the generation mentioned, all, 100%, should know the Basque and be classed in the 21st. the new citizens, born in the century, are eucharated, and the citizens of many different origins which approach to live towards us do not forget. It would be the most logical and natural for this to be the case that your department, from the Administration, should establish language policies for the use of eucalyptus, and, consequently, to enable space to ensure the rights of language. And that's your responsibility, that's Administration responsibility. But we were surprised and worried when the head of the Language Politics came to the committee to present plans for the legislation. We were worried about the goal and the attitude. I'll explain. On the one hand, you explained, literally, "Para el e periods 2020, nuestra ingención es el 75% de la ciudadnía menor de 20 años sea bilingue." We have no doubt that all the original euphorias have been learned by rhyme and become eloquent. That's the direct result of educational policy. The question is, from the study of the late 2011 census and the records of Eustate (they are the latest events and are official data), that they were 78% of the year below. So I don't know if you got mixed up, there was a dance of numbers, or a cut that you actually plan, and you actually plan it. We'd be grateful if you could tell us what your intention is. And on the other hand, you said that the initiative was a parlamentarian group, the initiative belonged to the legislature. We don't refuse to take action, and we've taken several initiatives, and we'll take them, but isn't it important for the government to take action? It seems to us that your responsibility is to take action, to make proposals, to address language policies. So we'd appreciate it if you could explain that to us tonight. Undoubtedly, if we want to go on, we want to do what we want to do, and we hope that this government also wishes to advance, it is essential that we should identify the important measures, the essential measures, the essential methods, the key fields, to direct an effective language policy, if we are willing to guarantee the rights of language for all the people. Hence we have attempted to identify the measures which we believe to be essential, as well as the states belonging to the eucaia, for we believe that the euphora is not yet the proper state, and that to penetrate into the development of the state, as I have already observed, the state of the euphoria is left lame. The measures which we are to take and develop are posterior, and you will tell us whether we have a chance to go on this road and make a road. We believe that the Basque Act must be adapted to new times. We believe that the public administration must be the same demand as the two non-commissioned non-commissioned non-commissions of language. We believe that education is to be put into a non-unsitarian cast. Fourthly, the map of eucalyplations in college is to be reinforced because we have terrible privations, just to see what's going on in medicine and in the Nursery. In our opinion, we must seek the source of the euphoration of the grown-ups. We believe that the courses of the profession ought also to be offered in support; it is not done, but the English give a greater preference to it than to the eucalyptus. Seventh, we must confess, protect, and make a rule of strengthening the respirations of the eucalyptus. The eighth, in the suburbs and in the non-euscal fields, to start the strategic planets, by signing agreements with local authorities, by development of protocols; We believe that the reception protocols and specific plans would also be important to the migrators. And, of course, leisure. The offer of Euscara products (cinma, media, games... ; here also we have a large area and a wide range. So, Mr. Zupiria, if you are ambitious, and presence in the normalization of effective steps in this legislation, if your goal is to know that 100 percent of the younger under 20 years are ready for us. You will tell us this day what your plan is, and what your predominance is. There's the presumption for our offer and our eucalyptus trip. You will explain your plan to this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u107	Mrs. President. Partners. Ms. Ubera, I'll admit it's possible that in the scene I did last January 27, before the Basque and the Sports Board, I'm not quite clear enough to express some subjects. I will confess to you that I was the first time in the legislature, when I was nervous, and that I did not guess when I made any use of it. Therefore, I am grateful to you for this second opportunity, almost this sort of recovery, to determine our goals in language politics, and to clear up our plans. See if I can make it tonight, at least to make it clear. We were determined to establish targets in the pre-Cloyment of the youths. And we wanted to point out that it was our intention to be 75% of the young under the age of 25 in the 2020s. That's what I wanted to say. This is what we appeared to be the object of the ceremony, and the commitment between our projects to this law. And I think it's worth explaining the purpose of putting these data in context and explaining what data we used. In the explanation of the appearance, and when I settled the ends, I used the data and criteria of socilinistic incesta, and not others. So I didn't use Eustat or the census. In this inquest, people from over 16 years old are impressed, not below them, and in order to establish our ends, we chose a group of people who have been used by the poll for 16-24 years. Going through the records, according to the Euskalistic poll made by the Euscalist Euskalians, 2016-24 years old is a number of %71,4 years old. And from this point of view we put our aim: to reach 75% at that age at 2020, to increase the level of 2016 at four points. In this respect of the knowledge of the Eucharians, as in all other respects, we wish to act carefully, and to set up voluntary and tractive ends, which may be performed, but which are equally ambitious, which will be one end and the other a challenge. We want every young Basque between 16 and 20 years to be 100-gaugeed, but I think that's going to take its time. To appreciate the importance of the purpose we've taken, I'd like to mention that the number of eucalyptuses in the socillistic polla of 2011 was, at this time, 59,7%. When the eucalyptic patterns were generalized in the education system (after the '90s), the D pattern was exploded, and the eucalogy of Eunomy came to all the schools of the Esquiria Erdigo, from which moment the number of euccan youths had been multiplied: 59,7 to 71,4% of 2016, and the next goal, as I said, 75%. And this is not only our aim for educational politics, but we wanted to determine that it might be a good trait for the number of eucalyptuses. From that point on, you mentioned, what are the keys and what are the projects or criteria for an efficient language policy? I'll tell you about these. First is education. We want to encourage a multi-language educational system that will be axis to the eucalyptic. For this purpose it is important to guarantee the language of the students, to ensure the constant preparation of teachers, to improve the curriculum design, to strengthen and expand the B and D patterns, especially in Hezik's, and to strengthen the family transmission of the Euscha. Two, the boss's euphoration. We wish to encourage and protect the euphoria of the masters, by developing the academic capacity of the Basques, by forming open appeals to the knowledge of the eucalyptics, and spreading the passive capacity of the citizens of over 40 years, which will help us to make young Basques. Three, leisure. We wish to promote the use of the Basque in our leisure, to support the cooperation of public and private institutions, and to expand our activities, actions, and services, within the bounds of leisure, sports, and culture. New technology. We want to develop the use and promotion of the Euskar within the scope of the new technology, push it onto the Euscarus Internet, expanding the public translators and extend the use of the.eus domain. The media and the cult action. We wish to promote the use of the Basque in media and cult action, at the same time strengthening its attraction and social reputation. To do this, among many others, we shall set up the following actions: ensure the presence of the euphorium in general and online media, in order to promote the cultural products of eucharation, to increase the offer of products addressed to the young, to help the new eucalycal parents to increase the language transmission between generations, and to ensure the presence of the cradle in the landscape of language, especially in the capitals. The media of the citizen's language must be secured too. We have to make sure that the people are received at two o'clock. It is necessary that the public labour should be pushed to the rescue, especially in the service of Osacin, of the Border, and of Justice. The importance of the first language. We must strengthen the cradle like the first language. Above all, we must strengthen the geographical areas which occur, and in order to achieve this, the latter will be encouraged to use public services with perfect regularity, especially in nations where the greatest number of Basques is, by respect of the rights of all the people. In the same manner, in these townships, the plans of employment will be strengthened by commerce, industry, and leisure. And corpusea. We want to deepen in the development of the corpus of the euca, the efficiency of language and of the speakers, to increase the significance and wealth, to respond properly to the needs of the young and the new speakers. To this we believe that the eucalyptic communications must be flexible by developing new query and reference tools; we need new resources of language in common registers and not in forms, to enrich the expressiveness of the resistant. We should do all this, and I appreciate the hand you held out to us, and I take it, if possible, to do as much social and political harmony as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u109	Few ambitions, Mr. Zupiria. A lot of small and complex ambitions. I see now that you plan to increase their percentage of less than 25 years into four points, because the kindness of the cohort born in 1997 and 2006 and the knowledge of the eucalyptus, was located in 81. So now you plan to raise four points between 16 and 24 years, and not to make sure that in 2020 it's really below 25. We think it's possible, and it's not just possible, but fun would have to guarantee our kids below 20 years, 100 percent to know about it. And it's not about time, it's not that we need more time. Time do you know what conditions it? Language policy conditions it. The more effective language policy, the more daring, and the more serious it is to our community, the longer the longer the longer it is, the less time it will take. But, of course, if our policy is to look at other communities, short and not effective, of course, we'll need more time. And that's in everybody's hands. We are ready to do this way, and probably in the several undertakings you have spoken of, we will find consent. But we think we should go farther, and take action, and we'll be ready for a journey together. Because we must remember that our language is not a language like that of others. Our language, the language is diminished, and is at least in communication with two other hegemonic languages. And if there is not a policy based on the positive discrimination of our language, we are not going anywhere, and it is a policy without a national view. And that really requires a strong policy from Administration and your department. And there's your main concern, not anybody else's, and what we can't do is leave the ball in the individual, because if the Administration doesn't do it, who's gonna do it if the department doesn't do it? If we don't do it here, where do we do it? Canada? Can we do it in Denmark? No, no. We must here establish policy for our policy of language, in order that we may be respected by all, not only by some. We have two NCO languages here, but the development of the states and states is not, unfortunately, he is not himself, because if we are to go to the doctor, we are going to use him to the rescue, who are we going to do it? It's not possible to resist the pretty ones that are currently in force. Or if we get close to a worker in the administration, who do we need to do it for? I'm just trying to remind you that the Administration has just taken out a few bags of work and that we've retired in the request for the rescue. So what are we doing? We're taking steps. And now you plan to strengthen the B and D model in the Hezics. It's true that we're going back to Hezics, but I just want to remember that the model of education at this time is not guaranteed to our students when DBH is finished, our young fellow, to be eloquent and to know of eucatiousness. For instance, EIB does not even appear in the Basque Act, nor does he consider the social situation of the present day. Then we should go for a walk there. It seems to me that we can have interesting means of making a trip towards the eucalyptic together, but without complexity. Without complexities, with courage and efficiency. And we can't always be what others will do. We respect the rest of the languages with all due respect, and we all want popular language, but eucalyptic ones. And this appears to me to be the necessity of making an important trial in this legislation. Otherwise, the backwards we're making are terrible. If we don't do it, because no one will, there's no other Basque people in the world. And I'd leave it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u111	Ms. Ubera, you've put a complaint to our behavior and our plans and our action. You said they're small ambitions and you said we had complex ones. I'm not going to name your attitude, I won't adopt. I will respect your opinion. And again, I tell you, we're ready to talk and we'll talk whatever you want. But I'll do my best to keep no conflict or controversy with you. That will be my position, and I hope you get it. And I will tell you also, that the steps we must take in the progress of the battle are not a question of either side, but I believe that there must be more parties. And I think that requires a few balances, and it's up to us to look for those balances, to look after them or not to do so. You, twice, have spoken the word back. I mean, in your opinion, the language that has been made in this town for the last 35 years has not been effective, and instead of going forward, it has gone back (you said "steps.") There's data in front of your opinion. The data, for instance, and I'll use again the polling in 2016, the number of citizens who use the eucalyptic incliquity incest according to the incest of 2016. The check in the 91st regiment, 25 years before, said that those who used the eucalyte in one or the other were 21,7%. 21,7% to 30,6: The climb, then, is a 6-point, and expressed in percentages at 43 percent. That's a step back for you. It's not a footstep to me. "And I have told you the things that are to be done from now on, the plans. And I have endeavoured to conclude, that they ought to be made in the greatest harmony, in our opinion, because it seems to us that the agreement between the eucacy and the activity of language ought to be given to the agreement and support of the different causes of society and institutions. And where are we going to work to collect and search for these support and those agreements? In this law, of course. In the Basque Advice Committee, too, looking out for the active complications of the various social artists. And in that context of agreement, our reference will be given by the Basque Advision Committee in the pre-prejudiced legislation, what shall we do now? who has received the license, the approval and protection of several organizations and agents. And on that road we will be engaged, in order to determine our goals and to connect, to make the revision of the Euscara Age, and to adapt for years to come. And I didn't want to leave our responsibility to anyone. Perhaps I didn't even guess at that in front of the committee, but when I said that it might be the initiative of the legal teams, I was talking about Euskara's reforms, not language politics. Deliberate that language policy, and encouraging it, is a function of the organizations and institutions, and in that case the impulse of the committees of counsel will be indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made to the Chief of Security, concerning the People's Security Law." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. You know, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia, the information you gave me about the application of the Mozal law. And you know, too, that on the 22nd of June 2016 this Parliament had made a decision, with the consent of your party and of your other party in the government, with the vote, and on the third point he would say: "The law of Europe is bound not to apply this law." This law has been applied for another 2.857 times since then, more than before this decision was made. And my question is, from this command of the legislature, what is the point of which the lady-headed chief physician has not understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u114	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u115	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. For the criterion of Ertzaintza is clear, Mr Arzuaga: compliance with the law. Once the law is passed, law enforcement. Neither the Ertzaintza nor the local police have any political assessment of the law. It is up to them to try to prevent criminal offences from being committed, to ensure that when they are committed the law is applied, and, if appropriate, of course, that they are sanctioned. In short, compliance with the law to ensure the exercise and enjoyment of fundamental rights and public freedoms according to the law. See, 54% of the cases initiated in 2016 in all three historical territories by the Ertzaintza and local police were for offences of drug use or trafficking or for illegal possession of weapons (54%, drugs and weapons); another 6% were for serious disorders, damage, delinquency of property, criminal offences against sexual freedom, exhibitionism, ill-treatment or abandonment of animals, non-compliance with movement restrictions, and the remaining 40% (a total of 2,182 cases initiated) involved disrespect, disregard, disobedience, resistance to authority, unreported concentrations and occupation of buildings or public roads. If we stick to that 40%, which I consider to be the most worrying and the one that has given rise to your question, we are talking about one dossier per thousand inhabitants, one dossier per thousand inhabitants, of a total of 2.5 dossiers opened per thousand inhabitants. And this is the reality, Mr. Arzuaga. In the light of the data, I sincerely believe that both the local police and the Ertzaintza have a professional and reality-oriented approach to the implementation of the Law on Citizen Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u116	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u117	Yes, thank you. Well, it is not a matter of little or much; it is a matter of which this Parliament has said nothing. And his thesis is that the law bites has a part that is consumable, that is reasonable, that is adequate, and there is another part that violates fundamental rights. And I will offer you a right that violates the whole law gags in its completeness, and it is the right to a fair trial and with all guarantees. There you have a right that the law bites on every and every case in which it applies. Juan Calparsoro, Attorney General of Basque Autonomous Community, was here and expressed his concern about the conduct that was previously criminal offences (with the law in hand, criminal offences) and that are now sanctioned, by the Law on Citizen Security, or by the government delegate or by the head of the Department of Security, because in the end the guarantees of defence are always minor. And he drew a picture in which there were more sanctions, more serious ones, and which were being implemented with less guarantees. There's always been the facts, there's always been the case. Before it was what was irrelevant, and on the other hand it was what was relevant to be brought to the attention of a judge, who was investigating, decided with all the guarantees. The gap between what was irrelevant and what was criminally relevant is now widened to be sanctioned administratively in this case by a police officer, specifically by the director of the Ertzaintza, specifically by Mr Gervasio Gabirondo. You're going to throw balloons out and you're going to say that local cops are also opening files on it, and it's true that we've found some cases, few. But it is also true that it is the Ertzaintza who hosts these dossiers, who deals with them, so that in the end the resolution will end up giving it to Mr Gervasio Gabirondo, who is responsible for it and whom I believe was sending this Parliament the mandate not to apply the law. Because Mr. Gabirondo is a party and at the same time a judge. It's part because he welcomes the word of a police subordinate for whom it's law what he's going to say. And he is a judge, but he is a judge without guarantees, before whom there is no claim, before whom there is no contradiction and before whom there is no defence, and who is going to make a decision that violates rights; as I am telling you, at least the right for a person to have a fair trial and to defend himself with all guarantees. This gap between what was irrelevant and what was relevant may be so great, and that is why you have applied this law 5,448 times, or it may be so small, which is what Parliament demanded of you. And not for a matter of not applying the law, but applying the criminal law, the usual law, the law that offers guarantees, and a judge can make a decision on it. Discreetly sanctioning Basque citizenship is not how you're going to get a local police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u119	Look, Mr. Arzuaga, I can agree with you that some parts of this law need to be changed, but if you think that it needs to be changed, get to work. Put your hands to the work and change the law. On 20 January, the Basque Nationalist Party submitted a proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Put your hands to work. Frankly, I told you before, I believe that the local police and the Ertzaintza have a professional response criterion, adjusted to the application of this law. In any case, I insist, a non-legislative proposal with political criteria, so that a law is not complied with, cannot in any way prevent the enforcement of the law by those who have to enforce it and by those who have to enforce it. I insist, I will repeat the data: 5,448 dossiers launched in 2016 under the sanctioning regime. 18.2% originated in a complaint form from local police forces. That is, to a greater or lesser extent all localities are applying it. What has happened, as you said, is that files that were derived by judicial means before the amendment of the law are now being processed administratively. But, I insist, if you don't agree with the law, let's get to work and change it. On the other hand, I would like you to tell me whether any EH Bildu office in parliament or in municipalities at any time has breached any of the laws. Because, that I remember and that I see, although I do not agree with the placement of Spanish flags, I see them placed, I have seen them, how they have placed in deputies and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-17.u120	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. I shall next read an institutional expression: The institutional statement about minor refugees. "It has been a tragic year in Europe to the refugees who seek security, in which 5,000 people have died trying to cross the Mediterranean in order to escape violence and persecution. Besides, according to the calculations of the United Nations, one of the three radishes which cross the Mediterranean is of small age. The treaty between the European Union and Turkey was made in March 2016, and the boundaries of the Balkan route were closed. Considering the consequences of this day that more than 60,000 people are locked up in Greece, piled up in camps, living in empty buildings and camps. Among them there are 23,000 children who haven't gone to school for more than two years. "Considering that children are the most vulnerable in this context, especially those who undertake the journey alone or are separated from their families. These children are at risk of abuse, falling into the hands of traffickers and trafficking networks and disappearing from radar. Relocation to another European country is the only option for children who have no family members in other European countries and therefore cannot opt for family reunification. "Only 900 refugees have arrived in Spain through the relocation and resettlement of the more than 17,000 that the Government has pledged to host. The autonomous communities also have the power and moral responsibility to contribute to the fulfilment of the commitment, offering the Government places for the reception of unaccompanied minors. "Well, the Basque Parliament demands the Basque institutions to put them in conjunction with the institutions of the state. It is intended to re-establish, by the first Euskadin, those of the younger age only in the regions of Greece and Italian refugees, and offer as many squares as possible to receive them as possible, and to produce the necessary and necessary means of integration programs." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and four.
