ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Kermanbe Ebribe Péritifs of the Society to the head of the Medical Department, about this year's inflammation campaign against the Medical Department." Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Darpón, as the chief physician of health we have often heard from your mouth that the flu is one of the most important problems of public health repeated every year, and you have insisted that it may often be attended with serious consequences to people in the most weak condition. Yesterday, as usually happens every autumn, you introduced a 2017-17ly insertion campaign campaign and, according to what I said, the October campaign 23rd will begin next Monday and it will extend until December 23rd. We believe that vaccine is a key to avoid problems and complications. We know that the grapeine vaccination is secure and effective, and that it adapts itself to the criteria established by the organization of health, and that, considering the experience of the past years, you have identified after the bells of the past year the means of improvement which you have identified, we want to know, on the one hand, which are the principal goals of the interrogation of this year, and which of your modernity and finally which means will be directed. In the same way, the Decrea, King 954/2015 established by the Spanish Government, the regulations known as a decree to regulate the prescription of nurses, may have the effect that this year's interrogation campaign may be performed in a normal manner. So it's very important for our team to know what measures they're going to take as well as when they're going to put in the grape's toilet for other years, just as normal, so they can do it, but also what measures they'll take to ensure the legal safety of nurses and doctors when they've done their duties and duties. So what we'd like to do is explain how the legal security of all medical professionals will be established. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u3	Mr. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mr. Orbehail, good morning to all of you. The flu is a contagious disease that we endure from year to year, which is of vital origin, and which may be serious to the number of dangers. That's why, as we do every year, we've prepared an insertion campaign this year against the flu. Our goal is to put as many people as possible, especially the risk teams, vaccine. Next Monday, October 23, we'll set it up. Vaccination is the main measure of prevention, both individual and collective, that we have against the flu. This year, as Mr Orbegozo has said, the vaccination campaign will start next Monday, 23 October, and will run until 23 December. We have two objectives: on the one hand, to preserve the individual health of people belonging to risk groups, and, on the other hand, to preserve the collective health of the rest of the population. With these objectives we have acquired 400,000 vaccines with a cost of 1.2 million euros. The vaccine will be available in all health centres and outpatient clinics in Osakidetza for people over the age of sixty-five, people with chronic diseases, pregnant women, and health and social professionals and professionals. Our end is exact and clear: to protect and promote the health of a Basque society, and to obtain it, in this case, the number of inserted individuals in the dangers is increased. The Department of Health has taken steps to ensure vaccination, both vaccination and legal security of health personnel. Like every year, the nursing staff will be the one who vaccines against the flu, as well as administers children's calendar vaccines for boys and girls. For this purpose we have issued an order establishing that vaccination will be carried out by indication of the public health authority in relation to the epidemiological risk and in order to preserve the collective health and the people at greater risk of developing complications due to the influenza infection. This decision is in line with the agreement to which we contributed and which we adopted in the Public Health Commission under the Interterritorial Council on 28 September. I would like to regret the immobilisation and lack of responsibility of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, which for the past twenty-four months has kept the Royal Decree 954/2015 unchanged, despite knowing and recognizing the problem generated in all health services of the Autonomous Communities. From the Basque Government we maintain the appeal lodged, we have repeatedly called for its repeal or modification, and last September we asked the Minister for an urgent and extraordinary call from the Inter-Territorial Council, which has not yet been carried out. In any case, the vaccination campaign will be carried out thanks to the measures taken by the Department of Health and Osakidetza and to the professionalism, responsibility and commitment of professionals and professionals, both nursing and doctors, who have always worked for the health of people, which is and will continue to be our main objective. Our object is to people's health, so we have to act responsibilities in an insertion campaign against the flu. The health department and the Osas have taken measures against the grapee, which is the greatest normal routine, and which always guarantees the legal security of our professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which is made by the Congressman of the College of Pello Urizar, to the President, concerning the answer given to the democratic proclamations of the nations of the Spanish State concerning the Government of Madrid." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u5	Mrs. Table Head, good morning to all. During the past few weeks we are clearly aware that two different wills or attitudes are present in the process of Catalonia: on the one hand, the Govern of Generality, in which, in order to open the means of dialogue and negotiation, the October interrupted or cancelled the independence which was to be proclaimed on account of the referendum of 1; and the other position would be that of the Spanish Government, where, in our opinion, it requires nothing but surrender and accepts it. And, well, in front of that interviewer 155. it opposes the article with PP, PSOE, and Ciudadans' protection. So, President, do you think there's a minimum of opportunity for making a reference to the right of euscal society?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u7	Ma'am of the Basque Parliament, members of the Parliament, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Urizar, I have proposed an opportunity to make a referendum so far, I have proposed an opportunity of making an arranged referendum. From now on it will be so, because the real solution will follow that way, and, I am sure, there is no other way of looking for the long term. It is a matter of concern to establish article 155 of the Constitution of Spain. I'd like to make a new call for distension and conversation. There's plenty of time for both governments before they make any reversal decisions. Governments must consider the consequences of the two decisions which they will take. The Spanish Government must consider 155. that the application of the article will increase the rupture of the relations between society and institutions. You have to direct a situation that won't cause humiliation. There's no point in making a decision that can make the situation more difficult. Yes, a conversation must be given without prejudice and without condition. It has to be based on the will of the bargain, and it must be directed to repair the situation. Perhaps today the agreement for an agreed referendum is not near, I do not know how long it will take, but I am clear that it can enable a definitive solution to a conflict of this nature. I am prepared to persevere, because it is the proposal that has proved effective in reaching a political and democratic solution to similar situations in our environment. Covenant and non-imposition. Pact and democracy. Let us give up winning each other with short regattas, because no solution is better than an agreed solution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u9	President, it is legitimate and desirable to make the way with impartiality, but it is also experimentalism when we have the Spanish State. Their negotiations from Catalonia have been very short, and they will have a very short career, as we believe, which we can make from the Basque Country. These were the words which I expressed to you in another question of 2014, my little confidence in Spain, and let us admit that time has given me reason. Time has given me reason, because since then, as I have said before, Spain has had only one purpose in regard to Catalonia, and it is to demand surrender, as I think, to refuse rights based on legitimate rights. The people of Catalonia have made many requests for the last few years, all legitimate, and has received a negative response from Madrid. And when I say it from Madrid, I'm not saying it only in the government of PPren or Marijoy in Madrid, because the political representatives of Catalonia have made these demands over and over again at court, even from PP, PSOE and Ciudadans. And that shows us an experience... not experience, too, that we should look at Catalonia, for we also saw in its day the course of the new state, what kind of will-freeness it is in Spain, and this experience shows that there is no political will to make essential changes in the legal frame of Spanish days. They say that the path is technically in the direction of PSOE and PP, but the euscal society is not ready to decide its future, and therefore, when we say that we want to form a new frame based on the will of our society, they answer with force. How many times have we heard in this chamber the Constitution of 78, or consequently the state of 79 was conditioned by the sound of sabres? Now we have the same situation nowadays, because when we proclaim our own path, we are threatened with persecution and power. In that question, President, in 2014, I told you that we would rather make the way agreed, but that we have as clear a view as we are of no state that would agree with us, if our principles, our principles, and our right of deciding, do not forsake us. And I think we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, I believe that the mark of our self-organization has always been favourable, from the origin so far. And I believe that difference has also given fruit in this law, and we must continue with it. More than a revolution, duration. And I'm talking about survival. A number of ideas to solve the case must be accepted, yes. A majority of the inhabitants of Catalonia have expressed impatience in years, and the ends of one and the other, are legitimate. The Constitution debated the state confirmed by the people of Catalonia, and the same tribunal, the same tribunal, proposed the interview and the opening of the cooperation, in the year of the same tribunal, 2013, and 2014. The Spanish Government has not accepted the proposals proposed by the Government of Catalonia, nor has now received positive answers from the proposals which have been made for the conversation. Anyway, I propose to look at the Basque and Basque future, too. Let's make our way together. Our object is to promote the treaty of our political status, fixed on two columns; the difference of mutual confession and support. In this legislature we have occasion to proceed from agreement, and to direct our choice from the general consent and political agreement. That's the Basque road to continue our choice and direction in the Basque organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with Hiron together, the members of the Podemos team to the president, about the solutions of political conflict in Catalonia." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u13	Good morning. In recent weeks there has been an unprecedented epistolary crossing between Mr Puigdemont and Mr Rajoy, in connection with a unilateral declaration of independence that was never proclaimed or voted upon. Bihar Minister Kontseilua bildu egingo da lehenengoz, edo 39 urtetan lehenik, 155. artikulua aplikatzeko; beraz, lehendakari jauna, what is the position of your coalition of government in the face of the probable effective suspension of Catalonia's autonomy and the stake in dialogue ways to resolve this political conflict?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, my opinion is clear, clear. I introduced him yesterday, and I will tell you again to-day: political policy is not to be judicial; it is necessary to give political solutions to political affairs; it is necessary to enter into conversation with the true will of consent; it is not a solution to make decisions on one side; it is a dialogue of solution, of which realism and the will of agreement are founded. I'm talking about realism, legality, legitimacy and bringing down democracy. It is possible, and that is the way to answer the political challenge which is aimed at the future from Euskakia and Euskakia. He asked me about the application of article 155, and also, in the formulation of the question, about a possible mediation. I have said, and I repeat, that in no case should the application of Article 155 be made, because it was not a question of whether the declaration of independence had been made. Was it not a question of whether the proclamation of independence had been carried out? The answer was no. As for the possibility of mediation, the important thing is the willingness of both sides to reach agreement. With will, without preconditions or impositions, I think it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u17	Lehendakari jauna, we agree that the solution must be negotiated and must be agreed; that the application of article 155 of the Constitution should not be given, which, as it is said, is nothing other than the suspension of Catalonia's autonomy and that, in our opinion, it is also a complete irresponsibility, which, far from solving the problem, makes it more acute and complicated. And we agree that the solution goes, as he has also said at some point, among others, through a legally agreed, clear and guaranteed referendum. We believe, too, that there had not been a contest of independence on the 10th of October, and also that this projection cannot be given, because of the mobilisation given on October 1st. Moreover, though this mutation be great and peaceful, we have seen, for instance, that, by saying the same Daan Everett, there were not enough guarantees, and that the international international standards were not filled by the name. And, while acknowledging that we agree with what you have expressed today, the truth is that we have more than doubt whether what we have heard is the opinion of the lehendakari, that of his party or that of his Government. I do not know if it is more inexplicable that the PSOE is part of a government that claims to be against the suspension of Catalan autonomy, or that the PNV thinks that it can advance along the path of political solutions by accepting as a partner a party that applauds every Rajoy performance, even though these are being rejected by the most prestigious international human rights organizations. Just as Human Rights Watch, whether it be the Council of Europe, Amnesty International or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, question all these actions that the PSOE continues to support. And you, Mr. Urkullu, are allied with this party. It is going to allow me to question whether it is ethically and politically acceptable to be a government flagged by the deepening of self-government and confederal models, which obviously cannot be achieved with a party such as the PSOE, which is precisely being indispensable accomplice to an authoritarian government such as that of the People's Party. And it is that, if I have started by telling you that you have the doubt that it is the opinion of your Government or that of your party, it is even more strange to know whether your coalition with the PSOE makes your Government's bet on dialogue solutions credible. Explain to us, Mr Lehendakari, if we cannot agree on budgets with the People's Party for its implementation of 155, we can govern with the Socialist Party, which is based on the People's Party and on the suspension of Catalan autonomy. We really want to understand this whole issue, but it is difficult, even more so when last week a director of his government, a member of this party, of the PSOE, on the radio of his own government was defending...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u18	Lander, please, Mr Martínnez, please, ja, ha... I think I left you a lot, or you concentrate on the question or... [[Berber]] Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay? Okay? I didn't promise. Mr Martínnez, no. That question is another question, and you know there's a subject on the list. It's not your question. Don't try to get involved with the Social Party or with other parties because it's not the time. You have a habit, and you don't... All of you, and now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u19	Oh, my goodness! But this part is not part of fun, and I hope this isn't the president... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u20	No, no, but no, it's not part of the question, and you know it isn't. You know. And if you want, I'll read it to you, it has nothing to do with what a director has said, with the question you've written here. And you know it. Oh, boy, try to concentrate or I'll have to break your word. You know. You do it on purpose, and you know it. You know. We've talked about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u21	I'm just finishing up, but one thing: I'm talking to the President of the Eukong, and he's made of two parties right now. And so...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u22	You're asking the president.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u23	Both sides...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u24	No, you're asking the president, and the question isn't on both sides. The question is, what you put here is the solution to the political conflict with Katalunia, and you're not talking about it. Go on or...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u25	Yes, yes, I will. Bukatzeko, Azkenean, Beno, Jakin nahi dugu how credible his bet will be for the deepening of self-government by federal and confederal states and for political solutions for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u26	Mr. President, your word is yours. [[Berber]] No, no, I hung up! I hung up! No, no, I hung up! (He shrugged.) I hung up! Así que, time is over. I hung up! I hung up! No, I'm sorry, I hung up! I hung up! And then you started talking to me when I gave you time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u27	But the president is on both sides and... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u28	Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I allow you, how could you not (you have said so), to harbour all the doubts you may have about what the coalition of government between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party might be like. Now, you need to clarify your own doubts about whether we have a government program, and that is what unites us with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. Similarly, I suppose you will harbor your doubts in your formulas of governability between Podemos and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in other autonomous communities, in the Spanish state. In any case, Mr Martínez, I have proposed looking forward, we have to look to the present and to the future. The present tells us that there is no declaration of independence on the table, there is a place for dialogue. The present tells us that the worst solution is to apply an article of the Constitution that allows the intervention of an autonomous community. We know how it starts, not how it can end. We do know it's not going to solve the problem. The solution is dialogue with realism, dialogue without preconditions and without humiliation, dialogue with the will to agree and with full awareness and awareness of the consequences of decisions taken by each other. As policy makers, we must propose political solutions. It is up to us to offer a solution horizon. And in this sense I have so far cited the Quebec-Canada or UK-Scotland models as a reference. As a reference. Above all, we have a commitment to our own reality, and in this sense I insist on the opportunity to move forward at a meeting point in the self-government presentation, in which for the first time we have participated all Basque political traditions since the last parliamentary term. Our shared goal must be to turn the Basque path into our own model of resolution, solution, and reference. Bilaterality can also be a reference for the rest. Let's keep working on the deal. I think this is the important thing, working for the deal. There's time to talk about the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera by Euscal Sociialists made by Tourism, commerce, and the head physician of Constsumon, about the present state of commerce in Euscadin." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u31	Yeah, good morning, everybody. Mr Councilman, commercial activity in Euskadi is undoubtedly relevant in terms of wealth creation and job creation. The Basque commercial sector is facing profound structural changes, and it is also facing new patterns of consumption promoted by new technologies and by the globalization of markets. Your department, Mr Retortillo, is working with the sector with aid and training programmes and promotional campaigns. Because local trade needs to have its competitiveness and strengthening tools defined. Programmes such as Berriz Empresa are essential to connect young entrepreneurs with the sector and to foster generational relief, so that Basque commerce can reinvent itself in the keys of the 21st century. Generational survey, business transmission, preparation and training are basic elements for the local trade sector to be able to count on the best and best professionals, capable of transforming commercial activity and adapting it to the needs of new times and new consumption habits. In the government agreement the socialists committed themselves to supporting local trade, as a fundamental element for the consolidation of employment. In the Euskadi 2020 government programme, under the axis "A solid growth, with more and better jobs" and under the heading "Promotion of tourism, local trade and responsible consumption", there is commitment number 31, entitled "Fostering the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector". The initiatives of this commitment include supporting local trade and promoting its competitiveness as a key element for the consolidation of employment and the dynamism of towns and cities, and efficient management of urban areas. The Basque Socialists know that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is working and carrying out various actions in order to fulfil the commitment made by the Government to promote the Basque commercial model. A trade that besides developed will be efficient and competitive. Our policies must be geared towards the generation of wealth and the creation of stable employment and quality employment, and all this in a scenario such as the current one, which is increasingly competitive and more professionalized, with important changes in consumption patterns and in which excellence and quality in the product and service are increasingly determining in the choice of purchase and, therefore, in the achievement of results. Action must continue to be taken in this sector, in a sector such as retail trade, which faced serious difficulties and a great deal of job losses during the crisis. But in order to be able to propose new measures, new actions, and to design effective policies, a clear diagnosis of the current situation in the sector must be made. And that is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what is the situation of local trade in Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. As you know, in this department we opt for information- and analysis-based management based on reliable data. Data, no perceptions. That is the difference between doing politics to achieve results that benefit citizens or entrusting everything to sensations, impressions and giving bandages according to the criterion that marks the agenda of each week. That is why I think your question about the current situation of local trade in Euskadi is very timely. For this reason and because citizens deserve that in this privileged space of political representation, in addition to the exercises of parliamentary fencing (sometimes even dubious exercises of parliamentary fencing), we also echo what are the realities of the most relevant sectors of the country. In the department we have carried out an in-depth X-ray and follow-up of the local trade sector. In Euskadi we have a total of 41,669 commercial establishments, of which 26,000 are micro-enterprises. In Euskadi we have a trade offer clearly higher than that of the rest of the Spanish territory as well as that of the rest of the European countries in terms of number of establishments per inhabitants: the commercial density rate in Euskadi is 12,3, 2,5 points higher than the Spanish rate (9,8 ) and more than four points higher than the European one, which is 8,0. These data mean a significant impact on jobs guaranteed by the commercial sector. Currently, Basque trade employs 136,000 people, not so far from a key sector for the Basque economy as is the industrial sector, which employs 180,000 people. On the other hand, 97% of the jobs generated by the commercial sector belong to companies with fewer than ten workers. Its activity involves the entry of more than 6,000 gross domestic product into the Basque economy, almost 7 billion of which are injected into the Basque economy, about 11% of the total. Employment in the Basque trades continued to decline from the beginning of the crisis to 2013. As of 2014, Basque trade has increased levels of social security membership year by year. The sector as a whole has had a fall in employment of more than 10%, which has also started dating back to 2015 and 2016. Although in 2012 the Basque trade had a sharp decline in sales (40 points dropped), it has recovered, and today the trade as a whole has sales of more than 31 billion. Similarly, the decline in the number of existing businesses is a trend that has slowed down in 2014. This recovery, although it marks a positive trend, does not stop leaving us worrying signs, because the agents facing small trade in their struggle for survival are disruptive and resourced, which come given by their size and by the intensive use of high end technologies. Internet sales of all kinds of products are being taken over by very few companies, and in this league they do not matter the borders. For the purpose of being a threat, it does not matter the size or whether the conglomerate is based in Europe, the United States or Asia. But in any case, the effect of these digital purchases is the same. The changes that these companies also make in the habits of Basque consumers are similar to those of other places, even though our commercial fabric is, in some respects, different. We are developing a strategic plan in the department to also address this threat, which can soon be seen; to tackle globalization with measures that will help to recover our very important trade sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about tax stocks." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, very good morning. I understand that in politics it is sometimes a conscious, and not easy, decision to do nothing. And so do I, as I have you for a prudent ruler, understand that you are sometimes more appreciated by what you do not do than by what you manage to carry on. In any case, such prudent leadership is concerned, as it is surely more difficult to undertake reforms, especially when you yourself have committed certain reforms. It is not that someone else has told you, but that you, in particular, came to the House and proposed to us, as one of the first reforms your government was going to undertake, the reform of fiscal and financial policy. So you self-replaced, and you told us that you were going to put forward the reform this year, and that the reform was going to be at the service of growth and solidarity, driving from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of fiscal regulations. Therefore, this was his Government's commitment and what they wanted to do; a commitment that is not only his, but also a commitment to his government partner. And we were also told that we would make a full fiscal monograph here prior to any changes made at the general meetings. You had therefore assumed a direct responsibility to push forward this reform. We are two weeks away from having the budgets presented in the House, and we still have no news of what that reform is finally going to look like, that the councillor first told us that it was going to be structural and bottom-up, and that his government partners are recently telling us that it is going to stay in nothing, that it is going to stay in just a few small touches. Our position was clear from the beginning. We understand that to encourage activity it is good to touch the nominal corporate tax rate. We also agree with qualified members of your party with important institutional responsibilities. We understand that if, in 2014, in a scenario of falling tax revenues, citizens were called upon to maintain the solidarity that is exercised from the public budgets, it is time, now that things are going well and that the collection grows at a rate of 10%, to return that effort to the citizens, which they were asked to do in the time of the weak cows. That is our position, and we would therefore like to see a tax reform, and a tax reform in that direction, and a position. But what I want today is to give you the opportunity to tell us what is the difficulty for you to be able to carry out the reform you have put forward, what is your position, and whether you are finally going to give us some approach, in this scenario of budget submission, of defining the spending policy, on the income policy of the Basque administrations for next year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I understand that you have made the introduction to your presentation, because you are sure, imbued with that culture of doing nothing too, of the responsibility of the Spanish Government. Look, in any case, before the bottom of the question, is that I'm not going to speculate. And I value maintaining three principles in relation to rigorous and consensual fiscal policy, and these principles are responsibility, certainty and trust. The Government's attitude is focused on responding to the present and future needs of Euskadi from the point of view of responsibility. We have analysed the results of the tax reform after three years of implementation, as our programme (that is what our programme laid down); we have made concrete proposals for improvement, and we have preserved the two nuclear objectives of fiscal policy: ensuring both public services and business competitiveness. From the beginning of responsibility, we have avoided turning the tax issue into a bold weapon between political parties and institutions, even in this very institution, still at the time we are, of political negotiation on the issue. My position is consistent with the principle of certainty and is written in the government programme: to encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the precise fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services. Our Government maintains two commitments, Mr Alonso: not to put the tax burden on the middle classes, and to ensure that corporate tax does not undermine the competitiveness of the Basque business fabric. The proposals to which you refer, Mr Alonso, on the whole of the tax system (not on a given figure or another: on the whole of the tax system) which are on the table improve, in my view, the rules in force, with the dual aim of consolidating reactivation and employment, as well as ensuring the sustainability of public services. These measures – as you know, Mr Alonso – are in the field of political negotiation, and therefore today my message is of confidence and of appeal to consensus in that political negotiation, in order to continue to guarantee precisely certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u39	Well, little light throws, because he says it's on the table, but it must be on his table. And in political negotiation, but not a political negotiation that we have heard of. Perhaps we are not considered, or, in the end, we are considered instead for other types of agreements in which the majority is needed, but in this type of such important agreements, in fiscal matters, it does not seem to be considered and it does not seem that anyone knows anything either. It is not a bold weapon to talk about taxes in a parliament. Parliaments were born to talk about taxes, and it is therefore also reasonable that there should be transparency and that you clearly define your position, and that you should give some assurance that this will not again be a missed opportunity. And you tell us that you can't actually lower corporation tax with your partner because the Socialist Party is opposed. And let him tell us if he can't make a tax cut either because he blocks his government partner, and then let him tell us what kind of leadership you can exercise within the government, with outlaws and also with your own government partner. Because the impression that there is in the media, in the street, in all of us, is that you can't move forward with a tax reform because your government partner won't let you. That's the impression. And, therefore, I ask you for greater clarity, as you say, greater certainty, and tell us when you are going to present the lines of fiscal policy, when you are going to call the full monograph you have promised, and when you are going to come here to explain in detail, not with empty words, what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, as president of a party that has historically been meant to claim itself outlawist, I am drawn to the inconsistencies, at least – let me say so – that I have heard in this rostrum. First of all, I'm not the one calling the plenary. Secondly, what is fiscal policy is the competence of the general councils of the historical territories of the Basque Country. And, thirdly, if there is a negotiation it will be in the area of what corresponds to the general boards of the territories. It seems to me very good that you come here to Parliament to say that there is no negotiation or that you do not know anything when the negotiation is deposited in the competition field. Look, you talk to me about ensuring a tax policy that is attractive to businesses, and you also suggest divergences in the positions that we stand for different representatives or institutional leaders. I will insist on the principle of trust: trust as a fundamental element of stability for the economic system; confidence in the way of consensus to reach a new agreement that improves and updates the existing agreement reached, inter alia, with the People's Party; confidence in a tax revenue scenario approved by the Basque Finance Council, with the unanimous agreement of all the institutions; confidence in a scenario that combines the balance that allows public services to be guaranteed and further improves business competitiveness to create more employment. Responsibility, certainty and trust. This is what I value most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition by Ubeka, Ubera Aranz, and the members of the EH Collectors to the President, is the attitude he will assume of the Schools that guarantee sexual Segregation." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Urkullu, Mrs. Uriart. Well, I intend all of you to do an exercise, and so do Mrs. Uriart. I want you to close your eyes, let's all close your eyes and represent this parliament in our thoughts. This legislature, classed in halls according to sex by members of the legislative class: in one room were women working and in another men. Or let's imagine in our streets, neighbors, libraries, shops, areas for women and some for men. Have you imagined it? Have you done the drill yet? What do you think of that? Is that what our society is like? Can we have our workshops, the legislature, the shops, classified in deserts? Is it necessary for a government to make public political powers favorable to such a society? There was a time when we had space, fields, some for men and some for women. Unfortunately, we still have a few areas for men and some for women, but fortunately we have gone on and it's enough to cheer us up, even though we still have plenty to go on. When we rank men and women, we work for some, and others for some. Classifying in space is also correct in its reading: some spaces are for women, and some for men. At the same time, we make a gradation between space and space, a gradation between men and women. I don't know if I'm wrong, if you do my own reading or share it. All this has a direct effect on our society, in the model of society, in the communication of men, among men, between men, between men and women. The Board of Education also strengthens some values at the time of its politics, and there are others, it encourages a social model, and gives a message to society, and therefore, in financing schools which distinguish students from public money according to sex, it encourages the politics of men and women. The message is correct, the model is clear, and unfortunately, it's still a day when you're talking about making fun of the public, the money that everybody knows, and sending it to colleges where the students are. XXI. That is quite natural. On the 21st floor? Is that what you're doing for equality? In the end, politics are carried on with funding. If there is no funding, there is no policy. There may be a plan of association on Monday, and Mrs. Uryart will come to the Board of Education to present the Plant of Education; isn't that so? And then we'll complain, we'll file charges, we'll make a few minutes' silences, but it's no use at all. It would be better to reflect on what the politics we make are, what end they get, what they can bring. And we often know that we are not conscious of it, so we must reflect that the consequences which they produce are not the consequences they seek. In the previous legislation, he told us that the Board of Education had no intention of making a difference in contact, and that he intended to continue financing schools which are seducing according to sex. I've been reading the transscription in terms of words, and it was Mrs. Uriart's words: "This government favors the keeping of the concert, and if there is no reason to bring it any different criteria, we will go on as we have been before." The question is, Madam Aren't you asking, Mr. Urkullu, is it not the duty of public power to guarantee the equality of women and men? Equality is not a weighty reason? Or do you think equality is fostered by such pretty things? Now we are at the new legislation, you may have thought about it, and decided to put an end to this kind of treatment, perhaps I don't know, and you will put an end to it by looking at the budgets of 2018. We don't know, though Mr. Erkorea kept up his plan to continue in the same line with some of his statements. I don't know if he was talking about the whole thing, or just about this criterion. However, today we would be grateful to you if you could explain to us what you'd do if you'd be able to maintain or not to keep an appointment with the schools that guarantee sexual re-regation in this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u45	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Lady Ubera, separated from sex by the protection of the Public Law, 9, December 1857. Thus, on the 4th of August, 1970, it was not until we accepted education and the financial education of education in the year 14/1970 law of the Reformation to the public centres, the mixed education of mixed education, or the education of men and women. Ever since then, education had gradually faded away according to sex, until those high-schools for boys or girls that we still have disappeared. All the laws of the state have retained the mixed public education; there are 1/1990 Organic Law, 3 October, on the general organisation of the Education System; 10/2002 Organic Law, December 23, about Education's Quality; and 2/2006 Organic Law, May 3, on Education, which is now in effect. The 1/1993 Laws on the Public Basque School, February 19th, the first number in the 3th article defined our school for the first time: "Anxiety, eloquent, and democratic, who is in the service of the euscal society, founded on social and culture in the surroundings, which equalizes the differences and integrates multiplicity." At the same time he identified among the ends of the school the following: "To ensure education for education." This criterion of education has also been followed by the greater part of the private schools which have been concluded; but there are still private schools, which distinguish the students according to sex. The law of the equality of women and men, 4/2005, establishes the 28th system of education in the Esquical Autonomical Education. in article: "The customs of education, which public politics ought to encourage, must always be the following ends: To provide integral development that stereotypes and roles have rejected, to discard all sorts of dispersal, and to guarantee unforced academic and professional orientations by the genus. For this purpose the true equality of women and men will be pushed into all parts; In curriculum, organization, etc." It also puts in the article 29th, which belongs to the curriculum. At the first point, "The Education Administration will encourage a combination project that will integrate the goals of education into the culture and development of the culture of various classes and the disciplined curriculum." And these are... : "To eliminate the prejudices, stereotypes, and roles which have been constructed based on the culture of sex, on women and men, in order to devote themselves entirely to the students of one sex." The second goal is to include the social and historical contribution which women and women have made to the development of mankind, for which the contents which are taught will be re-viewed and corrected as far as possible. another, "to introduce necessary knowledge, that the students of the house and of the people are to watch over the wants and responsibilities which they now possess, and which they may have in the future, and to train the scholars, so that when they make academic choices they may not consider the conditions based on the genus." And finally, the prevention of violence against women, by which the methods without violence to solve conflicts are shown both in multiplicity and variety, and in respect of the equality of women and men as their rights and options. In the second place, it is said, "In the same way, the Education Administration will establish the fundamental principles of violence in all the stages of education, and will set up specific content and periods of education in all classes of everyday life." "At these events and at such times, the party and content which relate to them will be integrated: to know how to conduct personal relations with the house, with the attention of persons, and to learn the methods without violence to solve conflicts, and the models of life based on the equality of sex and the respect of multiplicity." In response to this order, to determine the curriculum of basic education, and to establish in the Esquinal Autonomia Escreanism, the education that was mentioned in the Esquirean 236/2015 Decrean is to contribute to "the integral development of the person, regardless of the stereotypes and roles based on sex, and of all sorts of distinction, to guarantee an academic and professional orientation without the influence of the genus. To do this, the schools will excite in every field the true equality of women and men: curriculum, organization, etc." Further on, the other principle was established: "The scholars, according to the prediction of the regulations of accepting their pupils, will encourage the equality of opportunity in school and in the course of the school: they will offer the same opportunities of education to all children and teenagers, and with this end they will make a positive distinction, in an inclusive manner, for economic, social, cultural, or personal difficulties, to help them in the process of education and to prevent school vacations." So there's no doubt that it's just that fun is interested in applying the principle of education in an educational education system in Basque Autonomy. In the country of Europe, the 13th of December 2004, the 2004/113/E-correction by which the principle of the equality of men and women is applied, according to the thirteenth, is solved by the bane of sex in public or private instruction. He adds also this, when he considers it 17th. "The principle of equality in order to acquire benefits and services does not mean that in all cases men and women ought to be provided with a corresponding readiness or facilities, unless one of the two sexes is offered in a more favourable manner." In addition, Article 3.3 says, "This correction does not apply to education." Thus, apart from education, it is not a neglecter, if we respect the principle of the equality of the two sexes. This law of Europe has been received in the regulations of several countries around us, leaving the field of education out of the application of the prohibition of sex. In England, the Sex Discrimation Act in 2008 received education among exemptions. This law has been abandoned by the 2010 Act of Ectity Act, but it also admits and regulates single-sex schools or single sex schools. In France, the 27th May 2008/496 law, having accepted the principle of the equality of commerce between men and women, mentions that this principle is not an obstacle in organizing the students according to their sex. In Germany the Federal Administrator of the Court judged in the sentence of January 30th of 2013 that education is not opposed to the principle of equality of the sexes received in the First Law of Bonn. Italy, November 6, 2007, 196. By the Decree of Law, the code of the equality of choice between men and women was altered, leaving public and private education beyond the bounds of disreputation for sex. And in Belgium, the 12 Decree of December 2008 of the Ministry of the French community (about the struggle against certain forms of disquisition) admit that the introduction to education is not the separation of students according to sex, if objectively justified and the means of attaining it are adequate and necessary. So, Mrs. Ubera, I think it's helpful to know what's happening in other European countries, here in Euskadin, to study our situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart, for your kindness. You haven't answered me directly, but I've made all your justification clear to say that you're going to keep the contact. You're telling me you're interested, but I've seen you don't have political will and you don't have any political determination to resist the segregation. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Uriart, but it's not about anything to do with pushing them, and it's in contradiction to keep the students apart according to sex, because in the end, when you're met with public finances, you give an anti-social message and you show that you agree to the difference between men and women. You think it's good to have a few spaces for women and some for men and all that brings them, and that's the dumper. I'm sorry, but that's a diver. Ikustaa besterik ez dago ikastetxe horietako batan, txosten batan jasotzen dena, ez? Horrela jasotzen zen: "For many boys physical contact sports (football, rugby, etc.) can not only be fun, but actually lay the groundwork for a lasting friendship. For girls aggressiveness does not build friendships, rather destroys them. In mixed schools both ways of living aggressiveness collide." It's obvious: some values for men, and some for women. And at least that's not our model. We believe in the inclusion. We believe in equality, and it is clear that public powers are to develop public policies in this direction, and that they must tend to finance. We want a school that won't admit distinction. We have a convention, we are convinced that the way is inclussion, that the way is tame, that the path is a mixed school. Because after that it's no use. Then it's no use crying. Then there's no use in a minute's silence, because in the end, when we develop these models, it leaves some consequences in society with time, brings about a social organisation. A pattern of association between persons is established, with all consequences. All the consequences. So we think you have to think about it. For to defend equality is not to oppose the other rights, but they are united. They're going together. And it seemed to me that in your power, somehow, you opposed them. To fight Segregation is to fight the people's rights, Mrs. Uriart? And we miss your determination, your political will, because you seem interested, but you seem interested in the theory, or you stay somewhere. Ye lack, indeed, a certain crime to resist segregation, and the segregation to be resisted in every criterion: For sex, religion, lodging, race, etc. If we wish to promote the social cohesion of this society, and really to promote social cohesion, we must resist the segregation, and not a society separated in the blocks. Hence, what this Board of Education ought to do, and what this Government ought to do is to behave boldly, to change the laws, to change the regulations, and to turn away from it that old social model of education which Lomce represents. And that's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u49	Lady Ubera, it is a different affair that those schools which give separate education can be admitted to the rules of education established. This subject is derived from a command received on the Organic Law on Education: "There will be no discrimination for the following reasons: birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other situation or personal or social circumstances." Seeing this, some of the authorities of education understood that apart education was prohibited by this law, and consequently they did not accept these schools in accordance with their education. Others, on the other hand, concluded that there was no discrimination, so that these schools continued to finance themselves with public resources. But all doubt has been solved by the alterations of the Organic Law on Education: "To select families, students, and schools, according to sex, by choice of education, no disadvantage will be given to families, or to schools, in any other way, when they are named by the Ministry of Education, or in any other part of it. For this consequence, the schools will have to explain the educational reasons for selecting this system in their educational project, and even the academic measures which promote equality." As I moved in my first speech, I would like to reiterate the interest of this Government in ensuring that the Basque education system is a system with co-education as a principle, in line with the requirements of Law 4/2005 for the Equality of Women and Men, and Decree 236/2015 of 22 December, establishing a curriculum for basic education, relying on an education that must contribute to the integral development of the person apart from gender stereotypes and roles. The rejection of all forms of discrimination and the guarantee of academic and professional guidance not biased by gender. The educational institutions, as provided for in the regulations on admission of pupils, should promote equal opportunities in access to and during the stay in the educational centre, offering the same educational opportunities to all children and adolescents, and arbitrating to the effect positive discrimination actions of an inclusive nature, which support the educational process and prevent the risk of school failure in favour of those with economic, social, cultural or personal disadvantages. Following the same Illust, GENRAEY and GENROFETADE has continued to be implemented at the year 2016-2010-7, with the summons of a three-year-old and ten-school legislative project. This call introduces preparations, advice, and supplies for hours. Besides, they are made every year for public schools, and solicitations for the compacts, for the prevention of Hebrews, and of the profanity of genera. Prescription, Counsellour, and Time are given to Publique Schools; and Preparations, Counsellours, and Confederations to Confederation Schools. On the other hand, it is necessary to work in the course of determining indicators which give occasion to the state of the family, by means of the students of the schools, and by a protocol to operate on such cases. The school must also help to modify the relations of power among the students, and make the necessary changes, in order to ensure a social formation based on the equality of the several identities, and the personal development of the girls and boys. Thus the school will be the room for education, for equality, and for the economy of the genus; and this will be the priority of the activities and training directed to the students, teachers, and parents of the schools. As I said before, I repeat: there is no doubt that "Morka Autonomia" is interested in applying the principle of education in an educational system of the Essquimia Er-Ecimia, and also the integral development of men, regardless of the stereotypes and roles of sex, and of all sorts of distinction, a academic and professional orientation that has no influence on the genera, a wager on the education that ought to contribute to them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpology, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the members of the Podemos, of the President, of the Machiistious violence, and of the extraordinary measures." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u51	Good morning, everyone. This interpellation arises from the perplexity, impotence and concern that has come to us from so many people, especially so many women, for the increasing number of serious, very serious episodes of sexist violence that we have experienced in recent weeks. We echo this concern, and we bring it here with the objective that all of us, from the role we each have, can push the measures that are necessary to redouble our efforts, because there are few. We want a parliament and a government that gives clear, unequivocal signals, beyond statements and condemnation reactions when feminicides occur, beyond the days indicated, such as 8 March and 25 November. We said in the registered initiative that in what we are going to 2017, according to data from different institutions, the number of complaints of machista violence has increased. This is stated by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Department of Security and the Office of the Prosecutor. In addition, in recent weeks we are witnessing a growing number of serious episodes of violence against women, with which we have breakfast day by day as well. The number of complaints of gender-based violence per partner or ex-partner has increased, and the number of complaints of violence by unknown persons has also increased. As an example, we have local parties. We recognize all the progress made, which we owe to us in the first place, not to be forgotten, in the whole history of struggles, demands and proposals of women's and feminist movements. We also recognize that some policies have been important to raise awareness and visibility. However, Basque institutions need to be prepared not only to raise awareness and raise awareness, but also to make a comprehensive intervention in prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation. But for all this, it is necessary and essential that all the Basque Government, all the institutions at all levels, commit themselves and allocate resources, Mr Urkullu. We want an Euskadi free of sexist violence, and we are convinced that the best strategy for the prevention of violence is to move towards greater equality of opportunity and results absolutely in all areas of life. In view of the government's programme, the budgets, the treatment or, rather, the omission of equality and the eradication of sexist violence in some departments, in some plans, in the various bodies, in some initiatives and commissions, from Elkarrekin We believe that this systematic violation of the rights of half the population does not have the place of priority for it in this Parliament and in this Government. We have an agency, Emakunde, with an anecdotal budget in the total budget of the Basque Government, and therefore insufficient sectoral policies. And, as for the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in all public policies, we are far, far from that horizon, Mr Urkullu. Look, in the 2017 budget appearance, when we asked and questioned Emakunde's poor budget, from the Department of Lehendakaritza we were told – i.e. textually –: "The government's investment in equality is around 22 million euros, and 11 of those millions are invested in responding to violence against women." Mr Lehendakari, this 22 million is 0.05% of the total budget. I repeat, with regard to the equality of this Government, it is 0.05% of the total budget. Let us not forget, moreover, that the money earmarked for violence, as you already know, comes largely from the Spanish State, from financial aid for women victims of violence by couples or ex-partners. So this is, according to the Basque Government itself, the bulk of the budget for equality and violence: 0.05 % of the total budget. Magnificent! The Government's speech and the expressions of priority do not correspond at all to the resources we find allocated to further progress towards equality between women and men. In the allocation and distribution of resources it is where we can really verify the priority given to this great violation of the rights of all women: 0.05 % We know the policies that have been carried out so far. We hope that he will not give us a detailed account of what we already know and tell us something new. Something new in the face of the steady increase in the number of complaints, in the face of the most serious episodes of Machist violence in recent days, including two femicides, which we have to add to the femicide of a woman from Eibar and her twelve-year-old son in May and the femicide committed by a Bilbaon in Ecuador. We expect nothing but more and better sectoral and cross-cutting policies, new measures, more resources (repeat, more resources), priority and real commitment from the entire Basque Government (from the whole Basque Government). I repeat: in the face of the most serious episodes of Machist violence and the feminicides of the past month, we hope that your Government will propose more measures, more resources, priority and real commitment, Mr Urkullu. Through this interpellation, motivated mainly by the increase in complaints and feminicides in recent days, we want you to present us with the new measures that this Government is going to carry out. We want you to present us with the new forecasts of this Government to attempt or intervene in a comprehensive and priority way to achieve a more egalitarian society and to eradicate the Machist violence, and to put an end to all these cases that we are seeing lately, which seems to be that the Government is doing nothing, because we have not seen any extraordinary measures or any kind of measures that will emerge from what has already been established. Very serious things are happening in Euskadi, Mr Urkullu, and we do not see that measures are being taken to stop this increase in machist violence. That is why we are asking you, Mr Urkullu, what new measures the Basque Government has planned against the violence of machoism. Because those that exist, in view of the data, are scarce, Mr Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u52	Thank you, Ms. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I begin by clearly acknowledging the gravity of this problem. I don't hide it. And I am also aware that the concern about this issue is shared, as you said you share the objective. However, let me ask you: do you believe that the aim and purpose of this Government is to put an end to this situation, to put an end to the macho attacks? Is that the task of this government, or of any government, to put an end to, or is it another objective, that of a government, in an absolutely shared demand such as the transversalization of equality policies, which belongs to us as a government? Look, I have recognized in this House only a month ago that only one case of gender-based violence is sufficient and serious, and I have reiterated our Government's commitment to tackling this social scourge. To face it. The framework of our action is the Basque law for equality and the Sixth Plan for the Equality of Women and Men. The Government has demonstrated its capacity for dialogue and listening to incorporate all those measures that can contribute to advancing the social goal of equality and the eradication of macho violence. To incorporate all the measures that have been proposed, in addition to those that the Government itself has been able to implement. It is necessary to persevere and implement a series of various measures maintained over time, covering all levels. You have mentioned some, and I will quote you prevention, detection, care, protection, and also increased social awareness. We are, yes, faced with a violation of rights that requires a comprehensive and coordinated response; a response that must not only be activated when a woman is attacked or killed, but must be permanent in time and act on the very origin of the violence. In the principles of the Basque law for equality and the sixth plan, we share that the root of the problem lies in the inequality between women and men, as well as in the power relations that derive from that inequality. The Basque Government is following the path and strategy set out by international agencies in their respective action plans. We take into consideration, therefore, the Beijing Platform for Action of 1995, the Istanbul Convention and the United Nations 2030 Agenda, among others. And, following these references, the Government and all Basque institutions are addressing the phenomenon of violence against women in the context of the global problem of inequality. This approach responds to the premise that violence against women is a manifestation, probably the bloodiest, of inequality between men and women, and therefore a more form of discrimination on the grounds of sex. The prevention and eradication of such violence will only be possible, Mrs Arana, if the equality of women and men is promoted in an integral, cross-cutting and multisectoral way. This is, in fact, the logic to which Law 4/2005 itself responds, which we adopt in this Parliament. I insist, because you have not listened to me: the prevention and eradication of such violence will only be possible if the equality of women and men is promoted in an integral, cross-cutting and multisectoral way. In the Euscal institutions we know that this question of structure must end in several fields. From that point, Ms. Arana, our practice agrees with the violence of women and the violence of their households and the arrival of the empire of Europe. I mentioned the pact in Istanbul. The treaty in Istanbul is the first juridic instrument in Europe which lies in the field of violence against women, and is also an international treatise with the greatest access in this area. Takes the following: one, to prevent violence, two, more especially men and boys of society, three to encourage the co-ordination of the institutions, four to exercise a judicial action against the assailants, and five to protect and support the victims. We'll continue to work with the measures taken by those five lines. Besides, we've accepted self-absorption as a tool that allows us to continue to improve. Based on the principles of the Istanbul Convention cited above, the institutions (and not only the Government: the institutions) are working to offer increasing, coordinated and comprehensive attention to women victims. And together with this, we do not lose sight of the importance (yes, and I must stress this) of awareness and prevention, as the European Convention itself points out, conscious that we will not solve the root problem if we do not act at its origin. Prevention, awareness-raising, coordination, legal action, protection of victims and redress. This is the way, and we are working at all its stages. Look, Mrs Arana, our determination is to continue working with all the measures we have put in place, and I am referring to the victim care service, with all the support it offers, the financial support for women victims, the telephone service 24 hours, health care protocols, security measures, training for professionals, as well as prevention and awareness raising. But I will stop precisely and especially in these two areas. In addition to different campaigns aimed at society in general, we work specifically through three programmes: Nahiko, Beldur Barik, and Gizonduz. In the co-educational programme Nahiko, for equality, respect and non-violence, 3,000 primary boys and girls participate each course, 3,000 each course. This year 2,300 young people participated in the Beldur Barik programme, presenting their work. A total of 11,000 people have participated in the Gizonduz initiative to promote awareness, participation and involvement of men for equality since 2009. We need to get better, yeah, and we're gonna keep working on it. We know that data on violence against women represent the tip of the iceberg, and I also have data, compared to 2016-2017, in the areas you mentioned, as well as the violence that has caused death from 2012 to this year. I have them, and I have them very present. We will continue to work from that recognition that data on violence against women represent the tip of the iceberg. We are aware that in recent decades there has been greater awareness of society, which contributes to the emergence of cases that might previously remain hidden or may have remained hidden. And this is also our goal, that the cases be denounced. We cannot make it clear that this was a strictly private matter until recently; today, although there is still a way to go, I think we can say that violence against women is a problem which, beyond budgetary economic resources, is on the political agenda. It is a problem that is on the political agenda. The fact that, for example, more complaints are being lodged does not necessarily mean that cases increase (and I say "necessarily" with all caution), but may be indicative that social awareness is falling, and that women are no longer willing to ignore situations that were not reported at other times and are now. Exploiting and reporting cases is linked to awareness-raising and preventive work. Obviously, with this I as lehendakari, and the Government, do not want to minimize the existing cases, nor do I want to frivolize with the data. I reiterate once again that the fact that there is only one case, one case, is a reason to continue working and to continue building a society free of violence against women. Prevention, care, protection and social awareness, without circumventing the obligation and responsibility of the public authorities. I believe that only since that shared commitment, which you have also shown, Mrs Arana, and shared commitment by the whole of society, can we deal with this structural problem, beyond what may be the economic and budgetary resources that we can allocate, which go beyond what are the specific headings, but which is also included in the programmes, in the plans that each of the departments has, and this is something that I recognise as improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u55	Thank you. Mr Urkullu, you have said whether it is the responsibility of the Government to reduce and eradicate inequality. Of course it's the government's job, it would be more! It is their task to create laws, to create resources, to create measures to change this inequality. It is their responsibility to put sufficient educational measures in place so that from the beginning of the educational stage for boys and girls this issue will begin to work. It is his commitment and that of his Government. Mr Urkullu, look, in recent weeks we have witnessed a growing number of serious episodes. I will tell you, twenty days, in twenty days all these news: Donostia: a woman makes a complaint for sexual assault; Bilbao: the Ertzaintza detains an individual of twenty-six years for sexually assaulting a woman she met in a bar; Las Arenas: a young man of twenty-four years is arrested for subjecting a minor to touching; Arrigorriaga: a young woman is approached by a stranger who subjected her to touching; Errenteria and Getxo go out to the street against the assaults that took place on their streets; an out-of-service ertzaina picks up an assaulted woman; et cetera, et cetera. More than thirty news stories on this subject. Do you think this does not require extraordinary measures? Do you think that this should not be an issue that causes you to start working and take decisive action on this issue? And these are the things you see; I don't even want to think about what you don't see. Is this really not a problem for you and your government? Mr Urkullu, do you think Emakunde's budget is sufficient? Of the ten autonomous bodies, and the one responsible for promoting no less than equality between men and women, the prevention and eradication of violence against women, is the antepenultimate in the ranking. The antepenultimate! Do you think that has the priority enough to be able to work to eradicate sexist violence? Does that sound like a good game to you? He knows that machist violence feeds on the inequality that women experience mainly, and that it is therefore important to address the inequalities that occur, for example, in the labour market, the economy and economic development. Well, look, Mr Urkullu, women do not have equal access to the labour market. This is a violation of their rights, our rights, and a waste of women's productive capital. For example, academically they have higher levels of qualification and better performance, but the employment rate for women is 44%, compared to 54 for men. The gender gap increases as more offspring are born: when you don't have children, the gap is 7.2%, while it rises to 15 if you have two or more children. Women account for 80% of those working part-time, 75% of those working without a contract. It is necessary and essential to consider and rely on this data when designing economic development, employment and labour policies, Mr Urkullu. However, as an example of the omission and lack of political bet, in the last two weeks we have witnessed the non-approval (repeat, non-approval) of proposals to incorporate the principle of equality into a cluster of Euskadi's university education in engineering, science and technology in the Industry Plan. Can you tell me something about this subject, why not include it? Do you think the gender perspective should not be included here? The economy is key to equality, Mr Urkullu. Technology and industry are strategic sectors in the economic development of Euskadi, and are leaving 50% of the population out. On education, we must also work from here, Mr Urkullu, and we do not see it being done in depth and with the resources necessary to do it right. The 2016 report on peer abuse highlights that there are 12.2% of primary school students who say they are excluded because they are girls. ISEI-IVEI's report on gender equality in primary education and ESO found that only 46% of primary plans (46%) address the detection and prevention of gender-based violence. Good data! Equality issues are not taken into account in half of area or subject programming: 55% address these issues only in specific activities. Does this seem to you to be working to eradicate sexist violence? These data reveal that there is no doubt that much remains to be done. Let us not forget that the education system is the mirror of our society, Mr Urkullu, and a platform for constructively multiplying critical thinking and transforming values. As you can see, there are many things to be done, starting with good budgets, Mr Urkullu. You have the chance right now. Increase the budget to eradicate sexist violence. Count on us. We will always support and accompany all the processes aimed at putting equality policies in their place of priority. But we are also going to be demanding and we are going to point out every time the budgets are not met and the budgets are not enough, neither the resources nor the measures to deal with this situation, which is very serious, Mr Urkullu, and we are very late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u56	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arana, I am curious about the assent you reflect when I offer you the explanations, with your gestures from the seat, and the tone you use when you go out to the rostrum and the speech you use when you go out to the rostrum. It gives me a certain curiosity. Mrs Arana, I recommend that you review in your initial speech what you have said is the end or what you have to achieve as a goal of this Government, and what you have said in your second speech. What's the end? Does the end of inequality, to which he referred in his second intervention, or does the end mean that this Government has to end the macho violence and the deaths of macho violence? Mrs Arana, be clear, and be clear about what I said to you in the first speech. Look, I am not going to use your demagogic tone (your demagogic tone) between what are the data and the use of the data for the demand of a greater budget for the field of equality policies. That it has nothing to do with Emakunde's budget, nothing to do with, Mrs Arana, but with a demagogic tone which in the end also characterizes its use of this subject, with so serious that it is. Look, as you know, in Euskadi we have regulated the response to violence against women through the implementation of Chapter VII of the Equality Act 2005, which regulates the prevention and eradication of violence against women in coordination with other laws. That's the frontispiece. This is a structural, multidimensional and global problem, which occurs on a larger or smaller scale in all corners of the planet, and to tackle this problem, from its structural character and with countless (innumerable and innumerable I would say) arists, makes it impossible for a magic formula to eradicate it from one day to the next, and that a government cannot have as its sole, exclusive goal the eradication of this issue. Addressing this structural problem requires action in all areas, as recommended by the European Convention to Prevent and Combat Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. You see, of course, we use several programs in the preventive zone to avoid the circumstances mentioned, and I have mentioned them to you: Enough, fear Barik and Mandu, for example. We know that in the last decades society has more sensed. This is why some of the first cases that were kept secret are now revealed. Our object is also to betray cases. It's also our goal to sue them. After all, with the help of the whole society, we'll end the violence against women. It is a responsibility to all of us to commit the whole society to this structure problem. I think it is necessary to point out that we are not leaving from scratch. Euskadi was a pioneer in the approach of our Basque law of 2005, for the equality of women and men, including a specific chapter to address violence against women. The aim is to comprehensively address the link between gender-based discrimination and violence against women. We certainly have a way to go, but it is fair to acknowledge the work done. And I am not referring only to the institutional areas (government, parliaments and municipalities); also to women's associations and movements, and ultimately to the whole of Basque society. I believe that the road ahead encourages us to continue to strengthen the measures put in place and to put forward new initiatives, and in this regard the Government has included in the legislative timetable, in the legislative programme, a new policy proposal to respond to the need to achieve the eradication of the social scourge of violence against women. To this end, we take into account the need to adapt to new international standards, therefore also to European standards of human rights, mainly the Istanbul Convention, as well as to the new Child and Adolescent Protection Act 2015 and the Victims Statute Act. In the process of drawing up this new policy proposal, which will affect everyone and not only be the goal of a government, but will affect everyone (as affected by the 2005 law, Mrs Arana), in the process of drawing up this policy proposal for the eradication of violence against women, we are open to the participation of the groups and all the associations involved. And my wish as a lehendakari, precisely because of the gravity of this issue, is to achieve as much consensus as possible. Because, in short, the whole Basque society is part of this goal, which is country-based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, of Tinishara Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of Podemos to the president, about raising a wall in the port of Bilbo." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u59	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, members of the legislature. What is the opinion of the Basque Government on the construction of a wall in the port of Bilbao? Now, besterik ez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. President, congressmen and chief officers, good morning. Guanche andrea, we are faced with a reality of special sensitivity. Sensitiveness is at the heart of the debate, but at the same time sincerity and responsibility. I certainly choose to guarantee the dignity, security, rights and duties of each and every person. All of them. We talk in this case of institutional coordination, we talk about security in people, and we also talk about security of people in a place where goods activity takes place and in a critical infrastructure. And we talk about offering decent living conditions to people who are fleeing a situation of course from persecution and fear. But let's go through the parts. We are working on an inter-institutional committee of deputies, the Basque Government, involved municipalities, security elements, the Red Cross and the CEAR, with five elements in which we are deepening: firstly, it said, institutional coordination; humanitarian assistance, informing, advising all those who come from the legal options offered to them; prevention, considering the high risk those people run by moving through a port area where there is a significant traffic of goods; security in the area of the municipalities in which they are moving, and fifthly, and not least, the coexistence with them, of all the people who are moving there and, of course, of all those who are currently living here. We are working from the utmost responsibility and sensitivity, but also, of course, being aware of the problem to which we are referring each and every one of the institutions in that inter-institutional committee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u63	First of all, thank you, Mrs. Tapia. I am surprised, when it is not the most responsible for coexistence and human rights that responds. Especially because what we wanted to ask was the opinion of the Government, and you have answered a number of things, but you have not answered the question. To build a wall is to run, it's a scandal, it's a Basque or something. It seems to us that this government, which committed a proactive attitude in April, is doing some things..., or rather is saying it does some things, because at the moment we are not seeing specific situations. But I will ask in an explicit way: What have the representatives of the Basque Government done on the board of directors of the port? How is the construction of a wall linked so that people cannot pass with, for example, the values of the port (values of trust, commitment, values of integrity, values of commitment to people)? Is it consistent? Is this also consistent with what you learned on the trip to St. Egidio? We have read press headlines saying things like "The Wall of Shame is being built in Bilbao," "Bilbao enters the painful club of cities with a wall," like the one that will further separate Trump's America from Mexico, like that of Ceuta from Morocco. In French lands, in Calais, the United Kingdom pays for the construction of a wall also, four metres high and one kilometre high, based on slippery concrete, to prevent, as in the port of Bilbao, the passage of emigrants to British lands. Donald Trump's spirit is in the port of Bilbao. What do you think will happen when this wall is built? Because in the answer you gave to me today, it does not seem to me that they ask and offer any compromise. I think they're looking the other way, they're throwing balloons out. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Euskadi is a land of solidarity, it is a land of welcome, it is a land that emigrated, it is a land that remembers this, that does not want any more Gernika. It's a land where we don't want guns in the port. It's a land where we don't want dead on the walls. It is a land that does not want impunity, and above all it does not want a government that allows it to look elsewhere. Are you going, for this commitment, to move the People's Party, the State Government, its representatives and people close to other institutions, who represent on the port's board of directors, to say no to the construction of a wall that symbolically takes us away from human rights and brings us closer to impunity? Are you guys gonna do that? Are you going to move what is the opinion and true commitment of this Government to the human rights of all people? It is a duty for us to have high standards of human rights. It is a duty to realize and publicly acknowledge that Euskadi is already a transit land, and to get to work. As we have always said, they count on Elkarrekin's commitment We can do this. But to really do that, not to keep giving news, not to keep signing agreements in which this is accessory or not primordial. For us, human rights are at the forefront, and the construction of this wall is a long way from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Guanche, I've told you from the beginning that we have to discuss the responsibilities and the truth, and I think that's the answer. We are speaking of responsibility on a committee where the command of the harbour is also present. I'm afraid you're wrong. I don't know. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But not demagogies. Let's tell the truth. Demagogy no. The port, in addition to other things, in addition to other aspects, is a critical infrastructure, where the transit of people – whether of one nationality or another, whether you or me – is prohibited, and it is necessary to ensure the safety of the people who are working in the port and the security of the goods transiting there. Therefore, there is also a legal requirement in this area for work. And don't compare the security of a critical infrastructure, like the port, with a wall built in a certain place between two cities. These are two absolutely different aspects. Now, you cannot come to this rostrum to say that this Government and this country does not respect or work for human rights, when you know perfectly well that we are examples of respect for human rights. But do not want, through that demagogy that you have done in this rostrum, to confuse all citizens. Each and every one of the areas I have mentioned to you, five specifically, is working on this inter-institutional commission; all the institutions, CEAR and Red Cross, working for the rights of each and every one of the people who arrive in Euskadi. Then don't confuse things or want to confuse us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Unai Uruzuno Goldsti, the President of the Union, Turism, commerce, and Commercial Director of the Consultants concerning Catalonia." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to Mr. Andoni Unzalu. [[Recorded]] "He that defends without a composition, is that law ought to be maintained, and that if any one be excluded from the law, he ought to take the necessary measures for re-establishing the law. "In the 155, do you understand? "Barne, according to zein kasutan bai." Androni Unzallu, the high-grandfriend of your government, the 10 last October statement on the radio, our public radio. In front of these serious expressions, does your government intend to take charge of you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, the words of Mr. Unzallu, which we have heard here, were nothing more than an official statement in the name of Euskon, a personal opinion discussed with other people on the radio, which, to its public offices, does not deny the right to personal opinions. On the contrary, this is well known and needn't be repeated. What brings us together? What binds us to such different aspects? A program of government unites us and binds us. But this government itself says that every political party has a right to defend its own private opinions, and in matters outside this government, as in this case, nothing is said in the government of Katalunia, as it is logical, and that every political party has a right to defend their opinions and their planning freely. So what you're saying and what you've shown here is not something that's outside the government program and the government's movements, something that's not expressly confessed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. You may say that this agreement between political parties is outside, but we are talking about a member of this government here, and I find it rather serious that you have given me the answer here today. "Bausta grave, señor Erkoek, porque es President de una comisión que rega el Código Éticus, and the Code of Ethic and behavior in regard to its fellow-citizens, seems to indicate that this is not what you know: "Euscal Autonomy, the Public Administration of Erdigo and its Public Sectors, ought not to imply any disagreement of the Government's political attitudes, and these attitudes ought not to be clearly censured on public media, social networks, or internets." Member of government. "If the principle of public government supports this disagreement, its fundamental right of ideological freedom and of expression being protected, it must offer resignation to the institutional consistency, and the organ which has the right to accept it or not to accept it." Nahiko argia, beraz. And don't get confused, because this is not just a matter of compliance with the Code of Ethics or not, but it has a very important political background, Mr Erkoreka. We don't have anything against this person, Mr. Unzalu. I believe that Mr Unzalu is being consistent, as a good replicator of Ferraz's policies. What is worrying to me is that they keep you as a high office and that there are high offices like this in their government, because that is really worrying. It is a matter of concern that there are members in the Government who advocate the implementation of article 155, who endorse the intervention of self-government, and who also consider it a balanced measure. It is a matter of concern that (today Mr Lehendakari also mentioned it), in a phase of seeking a new political status, you are ruling by the hand of a party which claims to defend plurinationality but which applies Article 155 to the first of the changes. It is a matter of concern to have the Socialist Party as a partner of the Government, who describe the offer of dialogue by the leaders of the Generalitat as an offer of cheating dialogue from the outset. It is a matter of concern that they maintain a high office in their Government that says, "If this continues, I do not think there could be any other way," thus justifying the possible imprisonment of President Puigdemont. It is a matter of concern that they keep this high office of their Government, which translates into press articles that the nine hundred wounded on 1 October were invented by the Generalitat. It is worrying that you forget that not so long ago Basque autonomy was also intervened. They intervened, through the Parties Act. Otherwise, how else would the Socialist Party and the People's Party have ruled here? Worryingly, the PSOE, when the time comes, will not hesitate to rejoin the 155th club. Therefore, Mr Erkoreka, all we ask is that we want facts. We want facts, we want Mr. Unzalu to cease. Because things are not said, they are done, and because when they are done they are said alone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that in this coalition of yours the expression of freedom is forbidden, and that each man has his own opinions. I understand, because when you've been around the occultism and for many years, I understand that it's easy not to understand that someone can have his own opinion, and in a coalition no one denies that. We have also plainly observed, that we speak of a coalition of coalesition, of a coalition composed of several parties, and that they are parts of different opinions in several points; and that therefore the government itself expressly says, that in all matters relating to self-glance, every one may use his own discretion, and can defend them. This is expressly received. I didn't mention the code of ethics, and you brought it yourself. I don't mess up. I know the difference between one and the other and what kind of problem lies behind it. You said it yourself. I can say little about the code of ethics, because the code of ethics itself says so. I'm the chairman of the committee, and he says that we can't say anything about the local debates. But the code of ethics has made a decision this week, and has set a clear doctrine about it. This doctrina is published, it's on the website, and it's clear what the Etica Committee thinks about sharing public offices in the media and giving opinions about the opinions of the public in this government. It's clear there, and I won't say any more about it. But I didn't bring that subject here. You brought it yourself. Besides this, what I said was: there is a government composed of two elements, and on this point each party has a full liberty to defend and plan his opinions, and I believe that it would be so until the next time, as well as now, when we do not have the same opinions, it will appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuaga Gumuzius, the law of the Union, made to the Chief of the Public and Auto-Robernual Division, concerning the suspension of the Law of Police in the Biktime of Violence." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Erkorek. I'm asking you today, and I'll explain why. For I do not want to know the causes of this law of the victims of human rights, or the means of your claims, because I have heard of the arguments of Salvioli in this field of human rights, I have heard of Jonan Fernand's reasons, even in a declaration made in the commission, and I shall, in some measure, extend the question to the President. I prolong your responsibility to you because it's self-portrait and so the decisions that the institutions make are yours and I think you have to defend it somehow. Erbaki bat hartu dugu Statuaren biktimak errekonozitzeko eta erraparatzeko, Eta Statuak hori suspended from, eten du, eta lege gabe gaude momentu honetan. She was jakin nahi nola kudeatu duz un errekurtso bilidean honor. Horretarako, sekuentzia chronologiko azkar bat egin nahi said: 1 December 2016, a news in the Deia: "Orthuzar claims the end of the appeals against Basque laws to Rajoy before negotiating the accounts". December 14, 2016, El País : "Rajoy offers to withdraw remedies against Euskadi in exchange for PNV support". 23 December 2016, a resolution of the Bilateral Cooperation Commission, which agrees a working group within this Commission to analyse Law 12/2016. May 3, 2017, close the budget agreement, and then two days later the Council of Ministers agrees to appeal unconstitutionality against this law. 20 May, the Constitutional Court imposes temporary suspension. 31 May, the Budgets were adopted. 10 October, the Constitutional Court recently confirmed the suspension. We're running out of law. We ran out of sine die law. And I would like to know what your management, as a councillor for self-government, has been before the Bilateral Cooperation Commission, and at what point do you give up this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, you talk to me about management, or you ask me at the moment, but your official question was about opinion, you ask me what I think, what do I think? It's a pity, and it's an opinion. I have said as to my opinion, and have no difficulty in repeating it: I do not agree with the reasons which the central Government used in its appeal, nor with the reasons which it employs in the Federal Court to maintain suspense. Not with others. Why? The one and the other, both appeals and cars, partly because they let the law slip, and partly because the Constitution courts give sentence, and partly I think it's worse, because this car sets distinctions between the various victims, and it's probably because these distinctions can be differences against the rights of international rights. What are we doing now? What do we do now? The verdict, we are examining the car, in which the legal situation is produced, and in which, apart from giving or giving it, we have the will and intention of applying the law in all the places which it is still applicable, because we follow the ends of the law, the spirit, and the jomigs, and with which we are absolutely engaged. Then, when the Constitution decides its final verdict, we'll see what we're doing now, but that's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u79	Of course, you give me an answer from where you're comfortable. I'm not asking you to give me a legal answer, but what I can share with you, and I'm asking you to give me a legal answer as far as you're the head of the auto-bernus, that's because you're the man who's made this decision here. And I think it's the attitude you've taken, in a way, from an experimentator, isn't it? You said a week ago, or a few days ago, that this was bad news, which sounds like something fortuitous, something accidental, are things that happen (the neighbor of the room has fallen a tile, what a pity, are things that happen; it was very nice, had good health...). But this law didn't fall for a tile. It's not a fortuitous thing, it's not an accidental thing, it's not an unforeseen thing. It is a failure, I believe, of your policy, that I should have narrowed it down, that I should have known it. And I am also asking you for a specific moment, which is how this is managed from that bilateral cooperation committee, which, in my view, has nothing bilateral and has nothing cooperation. It's unilaterality and it's imposition, pure discretion. You speak of the path of the pact – the lehendakari has spoken of this vehemently in the first point – in the government's relations with the Spanish government, but they understand not the path of pact, they understand the de facto path. I mean, "Let's make deals, it's okay. Let's sign it all. You fulfill, that I will do whatever I want." And with this law is what they have shown. They tell us which victims we should recognize and which victims we may not recognize, and I ask you to know what the alternative is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, you tell me that we are spectators in response to the questions of some journalists. It wasn't our showman's attitude. This law has been actively maintained, before at the Committee of the Twos, and then in the Court of The Constitution. I'm surprised that, on the other hand, when here we discussed, you refused to vote for a law that now you're defending. I'm surprised. Why? Why now did you refuse to vote for a law so important? Because it's really weird. However, I have taken no part in the experimentor's attitude, but in the posture of the defender, because I have defended it in all the forums that you have not done. I do. I have formerly insisted upon the Committee of the Two Hundred, and then in the presence of the Constitution itself, and from now on, there are still events or enterprises to be performed in front of the Constitution, and we are to follow. You're telling me that the "cooperacial" organ is not really binary, but you've confessed in your first intervention in other cases, in another case, that we'd come to an agreement in that forum. So that in this forum, because it is a searcher, there are sometimes bargains, and sometimes there are no settlements. for this is the cause of both, that there is an agreement when they are together, and that when they are not both there is no compact, and then every one takes his own way. You, I know you're using a very special judicial system in your papers. I can agree with these objects, but we have to discuss that in the power, in the self-reference. For this purpose it is set up and made up, and every statement or arrangement on the system will be carried there, and there, as it may be, will be discussed. If not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, made by the members of the CORA CENTERO CORODS OF EHGENDS, to the head of the Economics, and of the Subventures, in order that the ships should not take the military arms from the port of Bilbo." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u83	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. I was going to take Mr. Urkullu. Mrs. Tapia, I'm going to be very hard today, but don't take it personally. We have an emergency at the Bilbo port, and this emergency is reflected in a horrible business in the world-wide: arms and refugees, two faces of a hard reality. A crisis in front of the end, a responsibility to everyone. I'm gonna focus on the guns today. And this is the question: What measures will the chief physician take, to ensure that the stocks which the government derive from the port of the Bilbo will not be able to maintain war? But make sure I don't put responsibility on your roof alone. You said in the last check facility that weapons are allowed out of Bilbo's port. You're right. And it's not easy to stay. It's true, but I'll ask you first: If you could, would you stop them? Because if you say yes, it seems to me that we have advanced a great deal. But you were not right when you said that the harbor transfer could solve something: Even if it was transferred, the decision would be in Madrid, which, once more, serves to see the limits of autonomism. Without the competition of a state, it cannot be decided who to sell arms to or who not to sell them. And you were right also to say, that it is not only the last chain of chains to examine this matter, that is to say, from what condition and under what terms weapons are drawn. And I've been pulling that thread, and what I met scared me off. I support today that from the port of Bilbo arms are coming out towards Saudi Arabia which is being used to commit war crimes; that this is happening not only against ethics, but against the law, and that for this to happen a series of collaborations or abandonments are necessary. And I want to explore today if there is that of the Basque Government. From the port of Bilbao hundreds of containers loaded with war material have left Saudi Arabia without detail, because the decisions are subject to the Francoist law of Official Secrets. The president of the Harbour Authority of Bilbao, Asier Atucha, confesses to us that he knows the weight, not what is in the containers. They could be bombs, grenade launchers, or Zamora sausages. There are many things we don't know, but some we do. And we know that for a firefighter who blew it up, not for the Basque government. We know, because there are alert people, that once a month a Saudi Arabian boat arrives to take it to them. More than 10,000 tons in the last year; the last load, this same week. We know, thanks to the reports of the Ministry of Defence and the report "Arms Without Control", that Saudi Arabia is a large arms customer: 650 million euros since the bombings in Yemen began. And we know, thanks to the seditious Catalans, where part of this weaponry is made. At the end of August, in Barcelona, in the demonstration against the attack, this image turned the world around: the Bourbons were accused of trafficking in arms. [[Shows a photo]] To counter this, ABC produced a few days later an article in which he accused the Catalans, now evil and rebellious, of making those weapons, with graphics and everything. But in making the graph there was a problem, because it turns out that in the category of weapons, ammunition and parts and accessories they said that 25% of those weapons were made in Catalonia, accusing them of complicity, but it turns out that, without mentioning it, almost 50% of that material was made in Basque Country, which also goes to Arabia and many other countries of questionable destination. But that was not interesting to highlight; now we are the good Basques. Second question: what does the Basque Government do to follow the trail to weapons made in Basque Country? More things, about war crimes and the legality I was talking about. What does the law say? Some examples. The Arms Trade Treaty (Spain is a signatory) has a golden rule, the principle of not authorizing weapons to commit atrocities, which is binding in international law. The position of the Council of Europe, which is also binding on Spain, limits the arms trade. And Spanish law 54/2007 contains all this, and it does not allow to export in the following cases: where there are rational indications that the material can be used in actions that disturb regional peace or stability; when it can be used without respecting the inherent dignity of the human being or for internal repression purposes, or has as its destination countries with evidence of material diversion. Let's see if this is done. A comparison of the Penal Code of the Islamic State and Saudi Arabia: they are almost identical, okay? I will say a few facts: in 2016 Arabia executed 157 people, with the death penalty, of course. Crimes: adultery, treason, gay sex, drug crimes, witchcraft, etc., etc., etc., etc. This is internal repression. About evidence of material diversion. According to the consultant Ares, the presence of a lot, a lot of Spanish weapons has been confirmed in Yemen. Among others, the Alhambra grenades, the C-90 grenade launchers, VAMTAC vehicles, BMR-600..., and the presence of aviation bombs, artillery shells and combat cars, mortars, etc., etc., etc. is being studied. The Spanish Government responds to us in Congress that if there were knowledge or risk of misuse, the Government would apply article 8 of the law, i.e. it would not export that country. But it also tells us that it has no knowledge that the defence material exported to neighbouring countries has come to the hands of the rebel faction. In other words, the Spanish government has no record of what goes on in videos and photos from all over the world. Or, rather, the Government has no interest in controlling the arms being sold in the Middle East. On the dignity of the human being, which is also required by law, Spanish legislation says that the reports of human rights bodies and other United Nations agencies, etc., will be taken into account in determining the existence of rational indications. Well, a 2016 UN report found that Saudi Arabia committed war crimes, in particular 116 air strikes against civilians in Yemen (this is March 2016), denouncing that Arabia is deliberately causing a deadly famine among Yemeni civilians and attacking them from the air in a comprehensive and systematic manner, including schools and hospitals. And the attacks constitute, according to the report, violations of international law and crimes against humanity. On actions that disrupt regional peace or stability. Today there are 800 bombings. Evidently, bombings provoke this. (Argazki bat erakutsi du) Does this seem enough to be considered disturbing peace, destabilizing the area, the region? I do. In June 2016, Ban Ki-moon presented the annual report on children and armed conflict. The text stated that the military campaign led by Saudi Arabia was responsible for 60 per cent of the 785 minors killed in the Yemeni war until then, violating the Convention on the Rights of the Child and being a direct war crime. And, according to the May report this year of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, 19 million Yemenis lack access to food, while bombs and missiles continue to fall on the devastated structure of the country. From May, and I'm sorry for the cruelty, it's also this picture. (Argazki bat erakutsi du) Helena Maleno was telling us this week to name the world's people: her name is Yalila. Yalila died the same May, because Saudi Arabia, the armed forces of Saudi Arabia, are bombing the port of Hadida, preventing food from reaching the entire population of Yemen. Another question, I hope, is positive: do you share with me that these are more, scandalously much more than rational signs of human rights violations? And I ask more questions: do you see signs of war crimes, human rights violations, destabilization of the region? I have no doubt that the infamous Government of Spain is cynical and out of the law, and that it drags us all on this cliff. And a warning from Amnesty International: the authorization of the transfer of arms in breach of the obligations, as a golden rule, not to authorize weapons to commit atrocities, not only violates the arms trade treaty, but Spain could also be responsible for assisting or assisting the commission of an internationally wrongful act, and persons knowingly participating as accomplices could be prosecuted under international criminal law. Well, we're already aware, and we're talking about something very serious. And again I ask the question: what will the Basque Government do to ensure that the port of Bilbao trade is not linked to war crimes and serious human rights violations? You were right, Mrs Tapia, we cannot look only at the last link, at the port where the weapons come from. Starting from what happens in the port we have to raise our eyes, because the problem is very fat and we are stuck to the traps. And in the sinister world order the right to trade is binding, executive and coercive, and you will recognize it now, because you will tell me that you cannot stop shipments. As long as human rights are left on wet paper, as I believe I have cruelly demonstrated. Looking at the whole chain, and not just the last link, it gives me the feeling that so far the Basque Government (not only this one, all the previous ones too) has been much more concerned that the Basque arms industry has its share of cake than watching what happened with those weapons. This has been done by diplomacy, public money, social image-washing operations in the sector... It's done, and it's done wrong. But it doesn't mean we have to keep doing it. I remember here that BH or Orbea, famous for their bicycles, were at their origin arms production companies. What do we do? Do we reconvert, or do we applaud wars to raise production? Or do we have to explain in this House that, in order for the arms industry to go well, we have to use them? If you tell me that Basque business internationalization has been made in accordance with human rights, I tell you that it is not working, or at least it is not working for all its parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, you said, and with a profound examination, I must confess that the answer might be very easy, saying that I really agree with what you said, that my jurisdiction is not here, so yesterday, even Mrs. we often bring to this Chamber those things which interest us, but perhaps have no jurisdiction at all. That would be easy, and maybe I'd sit down with that and end up with it. But, well, we know how to read between lines, and when we look at your words here, I think the idea is that there is so much more to be confessed and put so many things on the table. It seems to me that you're making up your mind what we're going to make, how far we can get, what we all agree with, what don't-I think that's the way it's going. In this sense, looking again at the written interpenetration, it seems to me that we are the accomplices of some criminal enterprises, and the weapons used against civil society; Well, I think you're going to put all these things on the table for your interference. I'm reading, or I feel like I'm reading. I completely agree. It's true, following those weapons is very difficult. It's impossible for us. But this continuity between him who actually sells and those who allow him is difficult, on the one hand, and sometimes it is true that his eyes are closed. I completely agree with that. However, you have mentioned two weeks ago in that pliant, which was held together by Podemos, a subject of the bonder, and I am inclined to remember that in this legislature there were two things in answer: one, of course, that all the workers have a right to express and execute their consciences, and this was acknowledged; and it was required that the Spanish State should, in some measure, respect the framework of arms against the Arabians, before the European Parliament required it, and leave it to the countries where they do not respect human rights. I think that's the sign and that it's here agreed, and that's what we agree with, and that's where it comes from. But this issue isn't today, and you talked about it yourself. In 2012, a decision was already made in this legislature, which was to forbid the Ministry, the transfer of Armies, not to be sent to the countries where the Rights were violated, but to inform them of the manner of regulating them at the time of giving their rights, and a special request was made not to send arms to so many countries. Since then – you also mentioned it – various steps have been taken at the international level, and it is clear that, although international control agencies and those of states are important, they are not enough. And it is shown with cases like those you taught us, that they are not enough, they are not being enough. And they are not enough to prevent the direct sale to those countries, or, indirectly, the transfer of weapons through other countries in which the sale can theoretically be legal. And there are a lot of weapons and ammunition in those countries that were theoretically not to have sent weapons. In 2013, you said, a total of 154 states voted in favour of the Arms Trade Treaty in the UN General Assembly, which entered into force in December 2014. This treaty has been signed by the Spanish State, and establishes a number of basic norms, norms to be complied with in the international arms trade. Where is the problem, obviously, as you said? For in the subsequent work to ensure that this treaty is being complied with, that it is being properly complied with, and that it is strictly guaranteed, that all necessary measures are taken to ensure that it is complied with. And not only – and I want to insist on this – but not just the establishment of rules, regulations and authorizations for the sale of weapons to certain countries that are accepted and properly done, but also the prevention of such weapons being indirectly transferred to those countries where human rights are being violated. We know that, as you also said, the Spanish State signed this treaty, and yet all these images and many others are being produced in many places, such as Saudi Arabia. But it's not the only place where they're happening, when Saudi Arabia attacks Yemen, but it's not the only place. We have to work to make that a reality. And you said... As I was telling you last week, fifteen days ago, before the question of Elkarrekin Podemos, we have to analyze all the links in the chain and not stay on the last one. Because, it's true, the last is where those weapons come from, but they also transit our roads, they also transit our railroads... So those are the last links, but how do you work? And I also wanted to point out to you another specific aspect that I also mentioned fifteen days ago, because when we are talking about selling to certain countries in complex situations from the point of view of human rights, by rating them in a soft way, there are two elements to consider. One is the weapons specifically, but there is also another certain amount of elements, products and machinery being exported that can be considered dual-use, as you know; that in some cases it is not, but in others it can be considered, and that is where we have to influence and we have to work. As an autonomous community, like Euskadi, we have..., I am not going to say a few instruments, I would say that almost none, but, nevertheless, it is true that I believe that where we really have to work is compliance with the Arms Trade Treaty, and that we really are able to establish and analyse where the problems are occurring. And I think they are not so much in the direct sale as in the indirect sale and in the transfer of weapons and other elements from countries where they could theoretically be moved. These are authorizations and licenses that the Spanish State has to give, where we have no competence, and – as the president of the Harbour Authority says, and you were referring to it – where the Harbour Authority does not know, does not know what is transiting through the port. However, I believe that this House can adopt – and I believe it has done so over the last few years – resolutions and be demanding with the Spanish State, which is the one who gives the permits and who gives the licences for all this type of weaponry and not arms to countries in conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u87	Yes, thank you. It's clear, nothing's working. After what we've seen, nothing's working. You tell me the problem is in the later work. I'm not so clear about that. For me, the problem is in the previous job. I mean, what's being promoted and what's being made has a lot to do with what happens next. Because, of course, it's not the same thing to send guns to Rotterdam police, for example, as to send heavy weapons to Saudi Arabia. And it's all done, isn't it? What I see is that the Basque Government (I speak of the Basque Government) above all that it has done is shrug, saying "We can do little here." What I also see is that there has been no public pronouncement, which I believe is something that helps a lot. There have been no formal complaints, as I know, or demands or measures to control this whole mess. Neither has solidarity been shown, not by the Government anymore, but by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, for the firefighter Ina Robles, who, out of fully justified conscience, did not participate in a bomb-loading operation for Arabia. As a nationalist group (again not as a Government), they abstained a month ago in Madrid when an initiative was presented to veto the export of arms to Saudi Arabia, surprisingly after all this. And what has been done and what seems to me serious, and I want to make it clear, is to put the Basque diplomatic and image machine in favour of the arms industry's business, and also against the law. The Basque Law of 2007 on the Charter of Justice and Solidarity with Depleted Countries states in its article 3 that "in its policies of promotion and support to enterprises, the Basque Government shall in no way cooperate with those natural or legal persons engaged in the production, marketing and financing of weapons". I think the article is clear, the law is clear. Well, in the previous legislature you, as head of Industry, on June 13, 2014 attends with Urkullu the party for the 25th anniversary of ITP, and El País, which I have here the cut, headlines "Urkullu puts ITP as an example"... , not of company, but as an example of the economic policy of the Basque Government, and stresses – textually – that ITP is "Euskadi's turboprop engine". However, twenty-five years before ITP was born by and for the military industry, specifically to build a part of the European Eurofighter fighter aircraft, and, in case the military vocation was not clear, on 23 November 2015 the act of inauguration of the Mirage F1 fighter monument, which was handed over to the company by the Air Force, took place in an ITP plant. On that day Ignacio Mataix, Director General of ITP, thanked JEMA for the transfer of the aircraft for the monument with which it wants to commemorate the historical twinning between the Air Force and ITP. By November 2015, by the way, the bombings on Yemen had already begun. Do you know which aircraft has bombed Saudi Arabia more than 800 times the population of Yemen? With the Eurofighter, the Eurofighter Typhon. Who does, who participates in the Eurofighter Typhoon? ITP, Sener and Aernnova, among others. And what does the Eurofighter carry here? Missiles Iris-T. And who makes them? Sener and Aernnova, among others. There would be many examples, but I'm going to the most recent one. Last month, fifty years of the Armera Association, weapons manufacturers; Lehendakari's speech to the Armera Association: "You are a reference in the bid for internationalization and innovation. From the Basque Government we maintain a close and permanent relationship with your association. Our mission is to continue to collaborate, work together, promote competitiveness", and so on, and so on, with all the major plan of the Government and Parliament here. No way! No way! No way! That the mission is not to collaborate with the arms industry, that's against the law! And I repeat: "... the Basque Government will not cooperate in any way with those natural or legal persons dedicated to the production, marketing and financing of weapons."Where is the principle of legality? What is it, for when it's convenient? So, what are we left with? What are we left with? Can't arms shipments be stopped because it is not allowed by law, or really, and taking care of something much deeper, we must stop arms shipments and the promotion of the arms industry because we are required by law, common sense and ethics?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u89	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I thought it strange that you and I agreed on something, so we stopped from Arabia and came to business. In this case, I think we need to study very well, and you mention the names of certain companies, I'm not going to join one or the other, but, as you know, in many cases the arms industry, or, perhaps, several progresses that happen during the war, they come to the civil world and make a lot of progress, and that's plain and you know it. And the ITP may have appeared in a way, or Aernova, as you have said, or Serner, because of one kind of inquiry and development, and now it is evident that many others have been initiated into so many other undertakings. Because they are also able to articulate different industrial measures that are an example – and we are not ashamed, and we should not be ashamed to say it as a country – they are an example of functioning, of generating employment and of generating wealth, because they do well. But we weren't talking about Saudi Arabia. You wanted to get somewhere else. You wanted to get somewhere different. And the truth is, it's kind of fun to see all those pictures lately, because if you forget where you've been, you remind us, where we've been, actually. But not because we get a lot of pictures every day we're going to be ashamed that we're defending the economic fabric of this country. No, no, That's what we think we have to do, because other times they also demand it, and then sometimes they do, sometimes they don't, it depends, when I feel like it... Yes, or no? I think we have to be consistent enough to do it right, yes, it's true, analyzing... And I'll go back to where we were. If we have any kind of action to do in the licences, in the work with the commercialization of weapons, it does not tell the Basque Government. It is not the responsibility of the Basque Government to do so. But it is our responsibility, and in this House there have been pronouncements, and this government makes or takes the corresponding decisions and actions where it has to take them... But it's not our competition. But if we're talking about that, we're talking about that, and don't mix it with the second intervention, which has nothing to do with it, nothing to do with what you were telling me. The economic fabric of this country will therefore continue to be defended by this Government, yes, because it generates employment and wealth, too, and it will have to continue to do so in every form. Of course, always guaranteeing human rights, always guaranteeing the well-being of people, and in that you have no doubt. And the plan of internationalisation – because it also referred to that – which will come to this House also for your knowledge, you will see that it also has a very concrete aspect that refers to it. But let's not mix things up, because if it's one thing, it's one thing, and it's if it's another is another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Ramone Becero Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the economics and the government department, concerning the influence of FEVE's railway transfers in the Eukot's business." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u91	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Tapia, last July a news story appeared in the media referring to the possible transfer of two railway lines from FEVE to the Basque Government for the 2018 financial year. On the other hand, we have Euskotren has a freight business that today is not profitable. So, my question is how do you think... if you think that transfer of lines can improve the profitability of Euskotren's business, and if so, how.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer it, Mrs. Tapia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As Mr Becerra said, on 13 December 2013, the Department of the Environment and Territorial Policy of the Basque Government detected that in the draft catalogue of lines and sections of the railway network of general interest presented by the State there were two lines corresponding to the Autonomous Community. The corresponding procedures were carried out, and in fact these two lines are susceptible and are to be transferred to the Autonomous Community and the Basque Government. They are specifically the line of Aritz-Basurto and the line of Irauregi-Lutxana. In this case, it should be noted that these two lines were no longer part of the Railways of Estrecha, of Feve, but were already part of Adif since 2014, and this means certain difficulties at the time of working with them, since they are already part of the network of general interest. In any case, these two lines must be transferred to the Basque Government, but they have not yet been transferred, since the Joint Transfer Commission has not met. In any case, these two lines have at this time uniquely and exclusively traffic in goods, as you say, and the goods that transit through these lines start or end outside the Autonomous Community. Therefore, whoever will use them a posteriori, when they are transferred (i.e. Euskotren), must have a series of licenses and a series of actions, as you well know, in order to be able to use them not only in the section of the Autonomous Community, but coming out of it, in order to be able to use them. I would also like to comment that at this time, today, the railway company licence for passengers and goods has been renewed, and the renewal was obtained on 21 June 2017. Then we have that one. The safety certificate valid for Iberian width, metric and high speed, also since 2016. The passenger safety certificate was applied for on 8 July 2016 and is pending resolution. And Euskotren's rolling stock approvals were requested on 13 July 2016 and we are also in the process of approval. We are therefore preparing everything so that when we have the transfer we can use it, and indeed Euskotren goods can be much more profitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u95	Yes, in 2007 the Basque Government approved Strategic Plan XXI, in which it planned to increase the transport of goods, and to multiply it four times as much as it had in 2007. By 2012, not only had it not multiplied by four, but it had been halved. And today it's a third of what it was in 2007. Even so, the strategic plan provided for an investment of 72 million euros, which were used to buy locomotives and wagons. Of the twelve locomotives, one was rented, seven are stopped, and three have been sold to Ecuador for a lower price than the purchase price. Today the Eusko Kargo service between 2010 and 2016 loses in operating expenses, or in operating accounts, 1 million euros, and in 2014, to put just one example, its revenues were 966 euros. Recently, in 2014, the government in which you are in has approved the Basque Country Logistics strategy, which resumes the idea that the transport of goods is one of the objectives, let's say, of Euskotren, and proposes the construction of a series of logistic platforms such as Arasur, the VIAP..., that some of them do not even have economic profitability or economic feasibility study, and some are even enormously deficient. I asked you about the transfer of lines because it is a factor that could help the profitability of the business. I know perfectly well that, in fact, Euskotren is getting all the certificates. The point is that it is no longer enough with certificates, it is not enough to build logistic platforms that will then be empty, it is not enough to acquire locomotives and wagons that will stand still. To this day Euskotren has two customers, and the main one he had in 2007 was gone because the wagons that were bought could not carry the covered goods, which was what that customer needed. So it is not only a question of having certificates, but whether Euskotren's freight business – which I recognise is necessary, because it is necessary to move goods from road to rail – is in itself profitable, and how it can be made profitable. And the question that would have to be asked is whether that transfer or others that might be in the future will help that profitability. And if it's not that transfer of lines, what can make Euskotren's merchandise business profitable, so it doesn't have to close. Because today it is a hole; small, of the smallest (it is not comparable to the one you will have with the high-speed train), but it is a hole more than you have within the government accounts. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u97	Mila esker, president anderea. Well, he was telling me that Euskotren Kargo is losing money. That's right. That's right. Merchandise traffic is getting smaller at the moment. But not only in the case of Euskotren, I believe that throughout the Spanish state. It is the only place where rail freight traffic is reduced, and we have something to do. But I will tell you that Euskotren has the objective of obtaining all certifications and approvals because, even if these lines are not transferred soon, we could operate them, through Euskotren, from El Ferrol to Bilbao. And that is our goal: that, even if they are not transferred in the short term, we can use those lines and introduce more traffic. At the moment there are customers who are demanding us to use it, and we hope to have some good news in that regard soon, and we have to work. But it's not just having a customer and being able to carry the freight traffic by rail. In the case of Euskotren, as you well know, it is a narrow track railway, and also in many of its single track areas. That also introduces some very important restrictions, and forces us to work only at night. Therefore, it is not only to get customers, and to have approvals and certifications; in many cases it is also linked to the improvement of the network itself. That we are also committed to working for travelers, but that will affect the improvement of the goods. And I don't run away: the high-speed train at the moment is not our competition, although we would like to be able to manage it. I generate art.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, made of the head of economics and of the sub-gulden departments, with regard to the social activities of the Barban Park Technological. " Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. 16,485,000 euros, plus interest and more expenses, was the amount, Mrs Tapia, that had to face the Álava Technological Park to cover the hole or part of the hole that had created Epsilon in Euskadi, the automotive dream of the Ibarretxe era. And all thanks to the spurious actions of Mr Sánchez Alegría, then senior official of the Basque Government of Ibarretxe. We already knew all this because we worked on a committee of inquiry in this Parliament. As we also know that whoever is criminally responsible for a procedure, i.e. is criminally responsible for a crime, is also civilly responsible for the damage caused. And what we didn't know was what a digital newspaper recently told us, and it's that a court in the Alavesa capital just finished the investigation for those specific facts, and it's investigated both Mr. Sánchez Alegría and the members of the board of directors of the Álava Technological Park, all of them the Basque Nationalist Party and most of them also investigated by other plots and corrupt them. Obviously, I don't ask you because it has nothing to do with the facts. Not much less, Mrs. Tapia. But I do ask you why there is a mandate for this House, for that committee of inquiry, which requires the recovery, as far as possible, of the damage to the public purse. And what we would like to know is whether the network of technological parks, or the Álava Technological Park or its department have been involved in this procedure to demand responsibilities, to make an accusation, what opinion it has on it, and, indeed, if it has not, if it is going to do so, or it is going to leave everything in the hands of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is the one conducting the investigation and prosecution at this time. And, as I know you prepare the topics very well, I'm sure you can facilitate the amount of total debt. We know the main one, but we do not know how much they have gone up or how much it is estimated that those interests and financial expenses of the procedure will definitely go up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u101	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, in order to begin to refer to the question you were referring to, it is necessary to analyze some of the numbers you were also talking about, in order to be able to answer in a way I think more concrete to the question you were asking me. The Álava Technological Park recovered an urban plot and also acquired a building and a set of elements, a set of facilities there, and the concrete price was 18,937,583 euros. In addition (this is the book value at that time), a number of small transactions were carried out, and has now stood at EUR 18,293,835. The sales were produced with a positive margin, which surely worries you, and corresponds to a net book value, today, of 16,161,638.46 euros. But in addition, if we accept figures – because you were talking in addition to a possible compensation of the public treasury – any of these figures I am giving you is below the value that is currently shown to society, for a valuation carried out on 1 January 2017 at the request of the auditors of the company itself, and the valuation says that these assets have a value of 23,187,700 euros. In other words, it cannot be said that there has been any breakdown in society. One, because it has not been sold in losses, and, second, because the valuation is also positive. On the other hand, you mentioned to me that the Park Technological Park of the Araba has been introduced there, and that's how he's done it and so on. And I have to tell you that no communication has reached the park directly, but, though it is not the firsthand information, the park introduced the will to be the person, and made an attempt, and the judge refused and gave him no permission to become a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Tapia, you tell us that in the whole operation there has been no economic breakdown for the public sector, because we have some very important assets that, assessed, are above value. But what you haven't told us is that these assets serve absolutely nothing, that no one is interested in them, that they have already become technologically old and that they have no value, however much real estate they are valued at a value of twenty-six million euros. The truth is that he has an unserviceable asset, an asset he doesn't need, an asset he didn't intend to stay with, but he had to make the effort, since a high office of that Government set a trap and set the technology park ahead of the financial institutions, so that he would have to face that hole. I mean, economic failure because I had to keep a property that I didn't want (the government's situation), and that doesn't help me at all. We understand that there is an economic failure, and that is what I would like you to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u105	Mila esker, andrea president. And what I would like, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, is for you to use the right terminology at the right time. Failure occurs when one sells assets below its value, or even if they are valued below its value. And it hasn't happened either. The rest are valuations that you do without any kind of justification, without any kind of valuation. I mean, who says those assets technically serve no one? Who said that? Are there no interested people, are there no interested companies? Yes, there are. Another thing is that these assets have a very high value for certain companies or certain stakeholders that can acquire them at this time. But there is no one to say that those elements have no value. And, therefore, one – and I want to make it very clear – the assessment that these elements are useless is exclusively his, not following any relevant or rigorous report. Two, that someone has cheated is also an assessment of you, which I certainly do not think is taking place here. If there is an open procedure, from a legal point of view, it will decide what to decide, but of course you are not a judge or a judge in this case. And the breach has not occurred in any case, because neither is given. And you can say it as many times as you want, but the elements are the ones that exist, and they are certainly sufficiently tested. There's no break, and if the judge says something different, we'll appreciate it. But you're not the judge and you're not the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interlation of the United States of the Basque Groups of Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Populalegus and Polylic Society, to encourage their families to aid them." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u107	Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. Again, Popular parties lead to this law a preference for the Popular Party, and it is a family policy. This year, when the law broke out, we introduced another interference about this subject, and then we introduced a motion, and then we made commitments to the Basque Mitch, and finally made an agreement, although it wasn't enough for the Poptular party to make that agreement. As it is a priority to the Popular Party, family policy has returned to the legislature. And we expect the chief physician to determine and explain his intentions in this second option. He said that family policies are a priority for the People's Group, for the People's Party. This has already been translated into numerous initiatives, not in the current legislature but in previous legislatures, and it is something that is also out of absolute conviction. For us the family is a fundamental institution of society, that vertebrae, and also plays an irreplaceable role in the personal development of the individual in his own socialization. As I said, this priority has been expressed in many initiatives. I would like to remind you that the first question we put in this House was in relation to family policies, which prompted a motion below, in which we made it possible for an agreement, which seemed to us to be clearly insufficient, in relation to the objectives which we believe this executive, the executive of the people that Mr Urkullu has so much to say to us, had to have in relation to the family. It seemed insufficient to us, but, as I say, we have an agreement, because something is something, at least, about family policies. In analysing the various aspects on which agreement was reached in that text of 9 March, we considered it opportune to refocus on this aspect, and to know once and for all, and given that a year of parliamentary term has passed, and since if we want to launch, with the referral, let us hope that sooner rather than later, of the strategy for the family and for children, in which the fourth family plan will be included, which is already a considerable delay, since the third plan ended in force in 2015... We already want to know whether this Government has a strong stake in family policies. And, on the other hand, if here too at this point, the reflection to which the counsellor referred in the question formulated, which were in a process of reflection, has already ended. I also say that in the previous legislature the two advisers who had responsibilities in this area also told us that they were in a process of reflection, which seems to have culminated in a draft strategy, but I do not know if in the transfer of powers that draft was not provided to the current head of this department. As I said, our concern and interest in this issue, which we consider to be a priority, has not only been reflected in different initiatives, but also in concrete facts. You will recall, Commissioner, that in the budget negotiation we increased the initial allocation for financial aid to families with children by three and a half million, initially planned at 27 million. And we have also managed to include in the budget agreement a provision, a very precise point, concerning the progressive elimination of the 7% cut which you so criticized the Patxi López government. It is true that we were not in the Government, Madam Counsellor, we supported that Government. It is also true that the circumstances were very different in the ninth, tenth and current legislatures, where there are already clear rates of economic recovery and where you too in these budgets are going to have more money, since income has also gone much better than in previous years. Therefore, let us hope that this forecast contained in the budget agreement, of progressively eliminating that cut, will materialize. As I say, that cut that you criticized the Patxi López government but that you kept in the four years of the previous legislature, and for now you have kept it in this first exercise. I hope it will be a shared priority, and above all for the data we have. We have one of the lowest birth rates. You yourself said in the reply to the inquiry that in 2015 it was reduced by 2.8%, and in 2016 by 2.1%. And also in the evaluation of the third family plan, which has finally arrived (with delay, because we also requested it in that parliamentary agreement in which it was urged to bring in in two months that evaluation of the family plan, and finally arrived on 11 May), it is also alerted to the decrease or fall of the births by 22% in the period 2016-2025. I therefore believe that these are alarming facts, and that they must lead this government, without any doubt, to take decisions. Not to mention and name – which I am not going to dwell much on, obviously for lack of time – the Ararteko report, which I also mentioned in my previous speech on this issue, both in the inquiry and in the motion on policies to support the families of Euskadi, its analyses and proposals. Eta txosten honetan ere gomendioak eta konklusio zehatzak ematen zirens, éta tut du report hori 2014an egin zeala, éta ematen del Gobernu honek oraindik kontuan ez duela eduki. We talked about how the age of emancipation is one of the most backward than elsewhere, how 30 or 40% of young people under the age of thirty-four have not been able to start a life project, and some more data. Of course, we believe that we must focus on economic aid both by birth and by conciliation, on conciliation policies, on education, on employment, on work conciliation... We believe that the challenges facing this Government are leadership and cross-cutting in family support policies, increased public investment, reconciliation, and, of course, also support vulnerable families. And, as demonstrated and also evident in the evaluation report, public policies and investments in concrete measures to support families, with specific economic amounts, have a direct impact on the reduction of child poverty and the situation of the most vulnerable. The legal framework I believe we all know it: the Law on Family Support, with very specific objects and purposes, also the inter-institutional plans, and, of course, the regulatory provisions for the development of the Law on Family Support. In the government program we were told that this government... But I say that we were told in the previous legislature: already in the last general policy debate that we had in the last legislature, in 2015, lehendakari himself told us that this family strategy was about to arrive. It's been two years, it's the same lehendakari, and we haven't seen that family strategy, which, as I said, is also fundamental, because it's going to include that fourth family plan. The third ended its term in 2015, as you very well know, counselor, and therefore, in 2016, it is assumed that, after the mandatory evaluation of that third plan, we had already had a family plan, the fourth family plan. On the other hand, in the government programme, as I say, apart from talking about this strategy, there is also talk of increasing aid to families with children by 50%, gradually extending financial aid for the second child from two to three years. I will refer to the points in the agreement that have motivated this inquiry. Indeed, we have placed duties on the Government to arrive at the evaluation of the third inter-institutional plan; it has arrived, but obviously quite late, considering that the third plan ended in 2015. (I already feel that you are still bored, counselor, but this is the pure and harsh reality that you, as responsible, have to face.) We also called for that strategy to be referred to as soon as possible, and we do not have it. And this agreement, as I'm telling you, is March 9th. And of course the point we were looking at in relation to the increase in aid for us is clearly insufficient. That is why, Commissioner, we are asking you clearly, and also in relation to that process of reflection that you started, when we are going to have that strategy. I know, counselor, there's a draft. When are we gonna have it? And when are we going to have that fourth family plan. And of course we wanted to know those specific aspects because for the moment we do not see that bet decided by family policies on the part of his Government. And I say that this aspect is absolutely worrying, when it has been a government that has been built up in people's government, not only in this legislature, but also in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u108	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u109	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mrs Garrido, as you rightly say, this is not the first time I have come to this House to answer on this matter. The Basque Government, within the framework of its powers, is already giving strong support to family policies, and I will try to prove this to you throughout this intervention. In the Department of Employment and Social Policy, together with the rest of the Government, we develop policies aimed at promoting and supporting families and the full development of their members. Throughout these days, the Family Week takes place, and in various public events both in Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao and tomorrow in Donosti we highlight the importance that the family has as a pillar of our society. It is the institution that vertebrates us, and that is permanently adapted to the changes and evolution that society itself is experiencing. It is also a very well-valued institution in our society, and so says the Basque Youth Observatory, which in 2016 the family obtained the highest score in the estimation of our young people, being the aspect of life with which Basque youth is most satisfied. It gets ninety points out of the 100 possible. And in this House we are aware of the evolution and changes that family structures have experienced over the past decades. Society demands that the different family members be constantly adapted to the new forms of life, which has led us to the current demographic and sociological scenario of Euskadi, which is, by the way, similar to that of our environment and affected by the economic crisis of recent years. And it is clear that the fall in the birth rate is closely linked or linked to the economic cycle: institutions, speakers and specialized studies of the Union agree to explain that the root cause of low fertility is related to the conditions that favor or hinder the birth of a second child. It is clear that Basque families would like to have at least two daughters or children, and, as with other European countries, this requires the provision of more care services. A key aspect of achieving this goal is that the State expands and updates maternity and paternity leave. They are currently set at sixteen weeks for women and four weeks for men, far away from the advanced countries of Europe, for example Sweden, where 480 days are set for distribution between the two parents. It is clear that everything that affects the lives of individuals and families and their prospects for the future affects the decision on when to deal with parenthood and the number of children we want to have. With all this in mind, in Euskadi we have developed a series of policies based on the Family Support Act. Ten years after the adoption of that law, we take into account the changing social and economic context and the needs of current families. That is why we are addressing the development of a new investment strategy for families and children; a strategy that builds on the need to articulate a coordinated policy package and will be approved for the first quarter of 2018. In the meantime, we are working to ensure that young people and families can start a family project and have the number of daughters they want, as well as to ensure that families with children are better protected. And in our proposal, the proposal that this Government has put forward to amend the rules of the GIR, this situation is envisaged. We have also proposed amending the financial aid regulatory decree to increase the protection of families. In addition to financial support for families, we are also strengthening other services and programmes to support mothers and fathers, with co-responsibility programmes and with the reinforcement of the conciliation items that we also have. The Social Dialogue Bureau has also set up a working group that participates in our strategy, which, together with companies, social partners and the Labour Relations Council, are analysing with us the promotion of work and family reconciliation. The main feature of this new paradigm is the change in orientation, from policies aimed at redress to other policies aimed at preparation, based on consideration of family, educational and gender equality policies. The organizations and associations themselves working in this field of the family show us satisfaction with the initiative we are taking. This is a key element for social and economic development. From this point of view and from this point of view, this approach focuses on the services that enable investment in the family, the creation of conditions for a higher level of equal opportunities and social mobility, the facilitation of emancipation and transition to adulthood, the support of families with children, and the facilitation of women's access to quality and paid employment. These good scenarios of social investment, together with a gender perspective and co-responsible social organization, will form, together with other perspectives, the guidelines that we set out in the new strategy. The Government's commitment to families is firm, but this is not in vain the autonomous community of the State that invests most in social guarantees, including the family. The public expenditure of the various institutions in Euskadi has increased from 0.22% of GDP in 1995 to 0.71, according to the evaluation report of the last family plan of the Basque Autonomous Community. Euskadi, with €63.5 million, is the state community that invests most in reconciliation and support for families with children. It is the only autonomous community that grants birth and adoption aid with criteria of universality and subjective law. The only one. Isidro Elezgarai, president of the Basque Committee of Unicef, commented in July that a child born today in Euskadi will be able to grow with a child welfare level higher than the European average. Now is the time for a more ambitious strategy. The main achievement in recent years has been to maintain the level of well-being in the midst of crisis, without producing cuts, and this has taken a step forward. It's not just an economic issue, Mrs. Garrido. I insist that responsibility for the extension of paternity and maternity leave is of vital importance for a social change in birth management, and this is the responsibility of the General Administration of the State. This goal is not just a matter for this Government. It belongs to society as a whole, to businesses, to social partners and to families. And in the first ten months of this government's activity we have launched different initiatives: a pilot experience for reconciliation, in three companies; we have increased the resources to speed up aid processing, reducing in two months its processing period; we have set up a working group at the Social Dialogue Bureau to work on the family strategy; in the new proposal of the GIR we devote special attention to the protection of families; we are finalizing our family and child strategy, which will be approved in the first quarter of 2018; we propose a pact for the family and children together with the municipalities, Eudel, outlaws and the rest of local entities, and a pact that we hope to reach in the coming months. Our effort is aimed at preventing the transmission of disadvantages between generations, with the conviction that it represents a crucial investment for the future of Europe and of Euskadi, and represents a great long-term benefit for children, the economy and society as a whole. This action for families benefits everyone and promotes natural, social and economic development by increasing productivity and ensuring sustainable growth. For us, for the whole Basque Government and for society in general, the family is one of our main social values, which we must protect. We therefore develop policies aimed at promoting and supporting families and the full development of their members. This is an objective that requires a great social pact in which we are working and for which there is a need for general support. The Family and Children's Strategy will be approved by the end of the first quarter of 2018, and from this strategy will emanate the Fourth Family Plan, in which the necessary initiatives and measures will be concrete to carry out a family policy that allows us to achieve the objectives that you and we aim to achieve.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u111	Well, Commissioner, you have disappointed me, because that determined policy that this group was asking for is nowhere to be seen. The truth is that it has disappointed me and left me worried, because the agreement of 9 March last year, which you signed, pointed out that the family strategy would be brought to this House as soon as possible. The lehendakari – and I say it is the same lehendakari, Mr Urkullu – already spoke in the last legislature in the general policy plenary of 2015 that we would soon see this family strategy in this Parliament. I therefore believe that there is an unjustified delay in this matter, and that it is clearly prejudicial to the family policies that have to be implemented in this Autonomous Community. It is clear that they are not betting on the family in a decisive way, we see a clear apathy in this area, and, as I pointed out at the beginning of the intervention, delay in the framework that supports family policies, in the strategy. But if you already had a draft in the last legislature! If Mr. Toña made reference to him on several occasions! The lehendakari himself in 2015, in the plenary of general policy – which I have already told him a few times in these interventions – told us that in a few months we would already have a family strategy for children. Man, it is true that we are also very disappointed with the lehendakari, because in March 2016 (of course, the elections were planned in June, but then they coincided with the generals) the lehendakari himself was also talking about a family strategy with a multi-year investment of 200 million euros. Where's that strategy? Where's that investment? Because, if you tell me that the strategy does not come until next year, I understand that, as a function of that strategy will derive concrete lines of action, strategic lines, objectives and specific action measures, that will not have a shape, the measures that can be taken in that strategy and the lines to be followed and family policies will not have a shape in the 2018 budgets, counselor. With this the promise of the lehendakari, therefore, clearly failed. We already knew it was an electoral promise, but we have checked with the facts. Let us hope that you, who boast of being loyal and fulfilling the pacts, will comply with the budgetary pact and increase the amounts of aid to families, and let us also see in the forthcoming budgets, in the budgetary pact, that forecast to gradually and progressively reduce the 7 % cut. That cut which you so criticized the Patxi López government, which had to be made out of absolutely exceptional circumstances, but, at a time when the collection is increasing, I hope that you do not have the problems that you should have in the previous four years, that you so much criticized the previous legislature and that you did not remove that cut of 7%. I will tell you why we consider the issue of increasing aid to families a priority. First, because you have also failed to comply with the forecasts set out in the Third Family Plan. Secondly, because you have also failed to comply with this forecast of convergence with the European Union in 2020 (you are very late). Moreover, in the evaluation of the III Family Plan, 88% of families with children of child-rearing age (if they are raising them) are in favour of increasing aid for reconciliation, and 83% of the population in general. That is to say, the population, apart from being able to arbitrate other instruments, sees the increase in these aids as a very necessary and very positive instrument. On the other hand, you, who so much like to look at yourself also in Europe, I have to tell you that, to the contrary, what you have done these years, and also comes in the evaluation itself of the III Family Plan, the budgets and the amounts executed... It should be remembered that in the first year of the Urkullu legislature you also cut conciliation aid by half. Therefore, such policies were not a top priority. I tell you that the OECD countries, in our environment, have not reduced support to families in the years of recession. They increased from 7,6 % to 8,2 % in the period 1993 to 2004. So, counselor, a lot of disappointment. And, of course, this interpellation will motivate a new motion by placing duties on this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u112	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u113	I'm sorry to disappoint you, Mrs. Garrido. I didn't mean to. And, of course, I believe that the budgetary pact is being implemented. This is what we are doing, with a follow-up that we are doing, staff – you and I – in relation to the aid and commitments that we have adopted. And this Government is always happy to abide by the covenants and the words it gives. If there is any delay in the strategy being implemented, it is not because it is impractical only to the Government, but because the associations themselves and the collectives that are working on it have requested and are asking for an extension in order to carry out a strategy that, of course, we all understand is important, that we must do so rigorously, and that we must count on the cooperation of all the actors. That is why this working group has also been set up within the Social Dialogue Bureau and so on. Therefore, our action and management on policies to support families and children is what promotes this inter-institutional strategy, because – I have also told you on occasion, Mrs Garrido – this problem, as far as birth is concerned, as far as the family is concerned, as far as children are concerned, is not only going to be solved by this Government. We are aware, and you are aware, too, and we have dealt with this and we have talked about it on occasions, that we have to do it among all the institutions that we have something to say (diputations, municipalities, unions, employers, associations, families). And in that quest to achieve the best possible strategy, from which this IV Family Plan will derive, it is in which we are immersed, and in addition to an important way. We don't start from scratch. We develop, update and adapt measures that favour families, and that is why we are designing this strategy. But, in addition to progressing on those objectives that are within our competence, there are elements that we do not have to deal with and that have a direct impact on the care of children, which is very important for the future development of young people and children, right? And it is that the state system of maternity and paternity leave is clearly insufficient. And you've never said anything about paternity and maternity leave. It would also be good if, apart from telling us what we have to do, he also told his colleagues in the central Government that they might be willing to review, improve those paternity permits, which would make it easier in an obvious and real way for women and parents to have the children we want. It is a part that, of course, I have never heard you say anything about the central government. I also insist that one of our main objectives is to support families, and we support families to transform that trend. And what I have also commented to you is that experience tells us that there can be no direct relationship between economic aid and birth rates: Euskadi is the autonomous community of the state that invests the most, and it is the one that has the lowest birth rate. Therefore, something different must be done to simply give some help. That's what I've told you on occasion, and that's what we're talking about. And we are the only ones who have these aids on a universal basis and as a subjective right. In addition to economic resources, people also need, in order to realize their desire to have offspring, another series of services (in the educational field...), which also allow to structure their social times more according to their needs. In defining the strategy, its multidimensional nature is essential, as this is a country project that not only concerns the Government, but also concerns the whole of society as a whole. And since January we have already taken different measures, such as those I have reported earlier: we are improving the management of the deadlines for the processing of aid, we are reducing it in two months; we are undertaking a pilot conciliation experience in the companies that we will now evaluate and expand, and we have set up that working group at the Social Dialogue Bureau. The Basque Government, within its competence, has attributed greater determined support to family policies and the development of policies aimed at promoting and supporting families, but it is clear that the family is one of our main values, and that we cannot wage war on the basis of the initiatives we are presenting. Mrs. Garrido, the data is pretty stubborn, if I may express it. In the area of conciliation, in the 2014 budget there were 17 million earmarked for these items, in the 2015 budget we raised the amount to 31, in the 2016 budget we go for 32.5, and in the 2017 budget we go for 32.5. I mean, it's true that we'll have to do a job, it's true that we have a lot to do, but it's also true that only with economic aid will we not get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Körr with regard to the supposed irregularities of the professionals and Polytic Society, which had been supported by professions. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, counselor, we've recently heard a news story about a scam case being investigated by the Bilbao Court of Instruction. It seems that there are alleged scams committed by training centres against Lanbide, and, apart from the relevant judicial proceedings, it seems that you have opened an administrative procedure. On this issue you have asked for an appearance, too, where we will ask you thoroughly about the existing controls for these training actions that are aimed at increasing or improving the qualifications of the unemployed. But we would also like to know, apart from dealing with this issue in that specific appearance... because there are voices that have pointed out that on repeated occasions they have filed complaints or manifested irregularities in Lanbide, and we want to know if you have been aware of irregularities and what actions they have taken. And finally, what do you think of all these situations of the possible existence of frauds, of alleged frauds in the management of training courses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u116	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u117	Mrs Garrido, long before the information was published, at the same time that a Lanbide technician detected these circumstances, at the beginning of the year I ordered a detailed follow-up of the case. Therefore, at the time when I was aware that some sort of situation was taking place that certainly deserved a detailed analysis, I ordered that such an investigation be carried out. During these months in Lanbide, and together with the Ertzaintza, we have worked on their follow-up, and we have been actively collaborating with the Basque police since we detected this case. Leaving aside the informational interpretations in the different media, whose elaboration and content logically does not belong to us, Lanbide first carried out a detailed study and follow-up of the case, as he does every day in the development of his work. The detection of hypothetical irregularities is the result of the reviews carried out by Lanbide on the funded training actions. Despite the withdrawal of the grants granted, the training actions have been carried out, their students have been trained in the relevant subjects, and those who met all the requirements have received their corresponding credentials. And Lanbide verifies the achievement of the objectives of all the training actions it subsidizes and conforms to the subsidies, under some circumstances reducing their amount and recovering the total when it is considered that the defined objectives have not been achieved. In some cases, responsibility is not ascribed to the centres, but when making the final settlement of the grants, depending on the circumstances, a recovery of the subsidies provided is carried out. Objective data shows that they are timely and isolated cases. And in order to clarify what we had already detected since February, I asked for my appearance in Parliament, and it will be in that appearance that I give all kinds of details of the control processes in the case of training grants.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u118	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u119	Well, counselor, about the specific case, we'll be talking about how much the total fraud is, how much has been recovered, where the complaint started, if any of the individuals... We'll talk about all those issues. If there is any control, too, what kinds of controls are there about the courses taught... I believe that this attendance will be enough, because it is also a complex issue and on which many questions can be asked in order to effectively confirm that there are sufficient controls, and that the relevant controls are carried out in relation to training courses. But I think the matter we are dealing with is certainly not a ballad. We are talking about public money, we are talking about a huge amount of public money, and also public money for the training of the unemployed. We, therefore, are concerned about news related to possible irregularities or scams in Lanbide's training courses, and we are also concerned, in this case that we have known – of which I already tell you that we will speak more thoroughly in our own appearance – because it seems to be, for the information that we have also been able to gather from this group, that we are not talking about a period of one year, but we are talking about several exercises and protracted actions over time. That is to say, when long-term actions are already taking place, it is that the controls fail loudly (I say to you that we will speak exhaustively about this matter), and, of course, where there are no controls, there is, or is likely to appear irregular situations. But I have asked you a very specific question, Madam Counsellor, and I would also like you to answer me accurately, faithfully, concisely and clearly, since we are in a chamber of citizen representation. Have you been aware of irregular situations, during the period in which you are being counsel, of complaints, irregularities, specific complaints in relation to these situations that have been made, or of irregularities that have been reported in other times? And finally I have to tell you that we are concerned about this issue. And we are concerned because, I do not know, I hope it is an isolated case, Madam Counsellor, but when we see that this is an important case, which affects EUR 1 million in amounts of fraud, from which it seems that only EUR 300,000 have been recovered, we are not talking about a small case. And they don't seem to be isolated cases either, as you're saying. And in the end it is evident once again that Lanbide's management is not as it should be...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u120	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u121	I believe, Mrs Garrido, that for a matter of responsibility what I had to do first is listen to the explanations that we have to make from the government in this and in all matters, and then give your opinion. I think, well, Lanbide works, manages, controls, detects, and also follows the different circumstances that can be given in its training services and in other services, such as employment management or social inclusion. We detected this case in February. The answer is that when I got to know this situation, I asked for more information on the case, and I at the moment, with the information I have, do not know that other irregular circumstances are taking place. We, when we met the case, became a private prosecution in the court as well. The person, also with perfect right, has also been personified in the court. And all I want to say to you – and let me be clear, Mrs Garrido – is that this situation, if it has been denounced, has been because the controls that are currently operating and operating in Lanbide have been effective. They've been effective. Is it necessary to improve them? Sure, I don't doubt it. That's what we're on, in a Lanbide modernization plan. But what has happened has been because we have detected that that circumstance was taking place in Lanbide, I want it to be clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 16th point in the theme list: "To question, the parliamentary laws of the Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH of the party assembled to Ogaste and the Chief of Economics, about the use of the number of 400 million dollars, derived from the sting of the Vampire." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u123	Good morning. Thank you, and good day to all. Mr. Subauzu, at the Basque Council of recent times, you've made a public announcement of 2017 settlements, and the effect of closing the Cupid's in ten years' peace has been made clear. You have included the collection of the results of the settlements of the VAT-governings which the Spanish Government has made in the course of years. EUR 600 million, the result of the unilateral retentions of the Government of Spain for years; EUR 600 million had to have been here for ten years. Of that amount, about 400 million remain for the Basque Government; an amount, from my humble opinion, is not negligible for policies and public services that have been moving in budgetary tightness for too many years. And that's why I ask you, chief physician: What's he going to invest 400 million francs that he's derived from your vacation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. To answer, Mr. Aspiazu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u125	Yes, Mrs. President of the legislature. Congressmen, good morning to all. Pinedo andrea, I am aware that this issue is not easy to understand, and first of all I would like to do an exercise of precision: regularisation refers to the total of the flows and discrepancies that were held in relation to the application of the rules of the current quota, and not only those derived from VAT. Ez da abiapunu zuzena, irregular indarean den Kupoari buruzko araudiaren aplikaziaz zeuden flowu eta desadostasun guztiei buruzkoa dellako. The Joint Committee on Concertation in May approved the final clearances for the final liquid quotas for the period 2007-2015, as well as the provisional for 2016 and the final compensation for those years. The agreement was, as is already known, set at EUR 1.4 billion, of which more or less 361, are still available for the public administration as a whole, as you have pointed out. Sort of. The necessary regularisation of the liquidations resulting from the quotas affects the Basque institutions in different ways and according to the powers exercised by each institution. That is why the Basque Public Finance Council agreed unanimously (and I stress, unanimously) on the 11th last day to compensate the historic territories for EUR 91 million. The government will make up for the 91 million euros of historical territory. Ya tenemos aquaí un primmer fate de los recursos disponibles. On the other hand, and as you also know, the Governing Council approved a bill on Tuesday, which, once ratified in Parliament, will enable the November payroll to pay a quarter of the outstanding extra pay for 2012. The measure will have a budgetary impact of around EUR 50 million. And, in the current financial year 2017, the increased availability of resources resulting from this regularization is also accompanied by a forecast for the closure of the collection of agreed taxes that exceeds the initially budgeted. We are, in this sense, looking forward to developing a number of actions in areas such as infrastructure or education, by advancing certain future commitments to 2017. And finally, the Government does not rule out a lower level of indebtedness, so that the financial burden in the coming years is more bearable and we have an additional margin for public policies. I'm just saying, you know, that it doesn't exclude us from doing a smaller debt, and in several compounds (just like undergrowth or education) we're developing a series of performances for future commitments to 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u127	Good morning. Thanks again. Mr Councilman, I think we have different views on some of the matters, but I think they are too technical for us to come into practice here today. We'll get you and me into another conversation. I am gratefully surprised that you tell me that you are studying some investments, because that is not what you have been saying in the last few days since the Basque Finance Council was made. You were constantly putting on the table the theme of the reduction of the final deficit of 2017, ergo was constantly talking about the indebtedness, and you today put it back on the table. It seems that for now what you have clear is that you are going to spend 50 million euros on the extra pay, in that part of the 2012 extra pay, which is welcome, because you are one of the few administrations that were still pending to make that settlement with public workers. Welcome. But it is true that if you are studying all these investments or other, it would not be much more than the rest of the groups could also know, beyond those who support you in the budget. Because it is not the same thing to start investments in the last quarter of the year, which you will certainly incorporate into the 2018 budgets – because that is what you will have to do – that you leave it for future years. Because when you talk to me about the issue of debt and that you are weighing down the issue of debt reduction, I insist, the debt of the Basque Government is not as worrying as those of the Spanish Government, and you comply with the constraints imposed on you by the Spanish Government. And, I insist, these 400, or the three hundred and peak (which gives the same, gives me the same, because they are more or less similar), those amounts are not from the 2017 exercise, and you know it as I do. These are not amounts generated in 2017; they are amounts generated over ten years. Therefore, I do believe that there is a margin to be able to do something more than what you put on the table. If you have to negotiate, negotiate with whomever you agree, but I do think there is a margin. Because you were the one asking for more public revenue, you were the one demanding a tax reform... You have right now on the table a unique and extraordinary opportunity, as you can recognize, and you will certainly recognize, unique and extraordinary, punctual, of this end of the year, to reinforce those public policies that from our group we believe have been weakened for many years. And for that, all we need is political will, and we, from Euskal Herria Bildu, want and hope that you will use that opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u129	Mrs Pinedo, I understand that each one's priorities may be different, although I sincerely believe that yours and ours may not be as much as what you want us to see today. Indeed, 2017, for this agreement, is an anomalous year, it is an exceptional year, and that is why the government, precisely because of the agreement we reached with Madrid, has exceptional resources. Resources that, unfortunately, cannot be applied to the 2018 financial year and to subsequent exercises, which means that what needs to be done with these additional resources will be something that needs to be done this year. And it would also have to be non-recurring expenditure, because, to the extent that it is recurrent expenditure that we anticipate this year, we would be creating a problem for future years. This is the framework we are working on. It is true, as I said, that this issue certainly, from a technical point of view, has many complexities, and I am prepared to explain to you everything that is necessary to clarify, because I believe that it is an issue that really needs to be clarified. But in any case we have to be realistic, I believe, with our management, that we do not let ourselves be influenced by siren chants and do things the way they should be done. And don't...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, Edurne García Troublembe Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamus, as to the model of Tourism." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u131	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Eguerdi on, lehendakari jauna. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians. Mr Retortillo, during the months of July and August 2017 the phenomenon of tourism and its consequences occupied the attention of the media about events of all kinds, not all of them adequate or successful, which have highlighted the need to address this debate in depth. In other words, a debate based on analysis and the contrast of ideas, and not on uplifting statements and simplistic headlines. In the Basque cities, clearly in the historical centres of Donostia and Bilbao and to a lesser extent in Gasteiz, as well as in some coastal localities, the expected and unforeseen consequences of the decided commitment of the Basque institutions to sell Euskadi as an opportunity territory in the global market of tour operators are beginning to be experienced. A market in which the cities, the singular spaces, the so-called cultural offer, are offered as a product that seeks to attract investments, which translate in the increase of tourist flows towards the territory offered. However, it gives us the feeling that some prefer to install accounts with terms such as nationalist or radical tourismophobia, and reduce the debate to the dichotomy between tourismophobia and tourismophilia, rather than facing the responsibility of taking effective measures to combat the negative consequences of poor management and a phenomenon that, like tourism, is undoubtedly global. From Elkarrekin We have already pointed out in previous interventions that the debate of the tourism model is also the debate of the city model and on the model of urban planning. A model that accounts for 6% of the wealth in Euskadi, but that when it fosters tourist flows in an uncontrolled way, has a negative impact on society, and we have to recognise it. We recognize, of course, the positive aspects of tourism and that it contributes to society. Tourism itself cannot be a problem either, just as agriculture or industry cannot be. In any case, it will be the model of tourism, agriculture or industry. To try to fine-tune further, the problem can lie in the monoculture, whether of pines, screws factories or pincho bars for tourists, even more when this monoculture is favored by action or omission by those who command, more concerned to meet the demands of the lobbies than the needs and rights of the population. Nor are tourists the problem. It is true that some are more conscious and respectful than others, but in that, the truth, they do not differ at all from the people living in the Basque municipalities. In addition, except for those who travel for pure survival – those who are not tourists – we all practice tourism to a greater or lesser extent, including those who prefer to see ourselves as travellers. The consequences of the increase in the number of visitors, some of whom are tourists in their own home, are now a logical cause of concern. The tourist condition, if I may, is the cause and effect of changes in the landscape of cities and villages. To begin with, the tourist is an effect and to a large extent a victim of the commercial strategies of the international tourism industry, which favors the rapid consumption of the places visited to the detriment of other less profitable formulas. The increase in the rate of profit is the dogma, let us not forget, of every capitalist business, dogma that in the case that we are dealing with implies a way of consuming the territory whose social and cultural consequences, and of course environmental, have been the subject of academic analysis and social protests for a long time. Consequences that consciously forget the defenders and apologetas of tourism in Euskadi, with the Basque Government at the head, as a new economic manna from which will spring progress and happiness for all, forgetting in passing that the outsourcing of the economy that this implies is a good sign of their submission to the powers that really design the future in the countries of Europe. If anything gives money, it's untouchable. If something gives a lot of money, it's sacred. That's how neoliberal logic works. It is not necessary to be a lynx to conclude that trusting the future to the perpetual and uncontrolled increase in the number of tourists is unsustainable. And not only do we say this; we quote again statements by Taleb Rifai, Secretary General of the World Tourism Organization, of 13 September, who literally says: "The tourism model must be completely redesigned. Sustainable and orderly growth is certainly positive, but uncontrolled growth is not. And, unfortunately, in the developed world there are more and more examples, such as those of Barcelona and Venice. Even, on a scale, Bilbao can become so." Political leaders belonging to the parties that make up the Basque Government have also had an impact on this idea. The mayor of Donostia, Eneko Goia, stated in an interview at EITB on August 12 that Donostia must face the negative consequences of tourism. Odón Elorza, mayor of the capital of Gipuzcoana for twenty years, on June 9, in a few days to rethink the tourist model in Sitges, declared that with the current tourist model of San Sebastián one can die of success if no measures are taken. And the problem is not so much the discomforts that are prolonged for four or five months by a large influx of visitors; the most serious is the expulsion of people to the periphery, as well as the low wages. In addition, Rafa Azkona, president of the Association of Neighbors Parte Zaharrean Bizi of Donostia, at a press conference granted this summer declared that the Old Party is becoming inviable, and that the problem is not tourism, but, as we repeated several times here, the tourism model. None of those mentioned above are suspected of tourismophobia or radicality. And we could cite the dozens of peaceful protests and demonstrations in the Basque capitals calling for a change in tourism policies, and pointing out the phenomenon of tourism and its negative impact on some parts of Euskadi. Let us listen to the people who suffer the consequences every day, and let us not try to deny reality and look elsewhere. There are neighbors to the historic helmets of Bilbo and Donostia and other municipalities that are affected by their daily lives. Every time they go down to buy bread, they face a radical change in their streets and neighborhoods. Not only because on most occasions, look where they look, there will be tourists, many tourists, so many that sometimes you cannot cross certain streets, but also by the gradual disappearance of the traditional and local commercial fabric, often replaced by franchises, with the consequent increase of the shopping basket that this implies for the neighbors. Without forgetting the precariousness of workers in the sector and the destruction of the material and intangible heritage of historical centres. Even if it seems exaggerated to you, the reality is that the indiscriminate search for the increase of tourists is a direct cause of phenomena such as gentrification in the historical helmets of the Basque capitals, which, as we have already said, affect the daily lives of neighbours and neighbours. You can also see the disproportionate increase in rent of the houses and properties as a result of the break-in of the tourist flats. There are large companies that buy whole buildings and rent them exclusively to tourists, at deorbited prices. We have said this many times: we must regulate and control activity, with effective measures already applied in other cities. Given this situation, it is normal for neighbours to protest, and it is our duty to listen to them and try to offer alternatives. Mr. Retortillo, do you and your department continue to refuse systematically to acknowledge the need for a change in the Basque tourism model and to take measures to address the impacts and consequences of tourism, the positives, the negatives, the expected ones and the unforeseen ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans. Mrs. Garcia, I'll start by thanking you. I don't know whether to thank him for the question, or for the patience. I want to say that the question leads me to a debate that we have already had, in which you have put more or less the same arguments and in which I believe that my position is also known, from that debate that took place less than three weeks ago. I was then literally saying that that appearance, and what my arguments were in that appearance, responded to the intention of responding with my department's vision and policies to the distorted image that could have been given of the tourist activity in Euskadi, starting from what you call not always adequate or accurate events that had occurred in the summer. He will allow me to first disagree with the reason why he presents the inquiry. It tells me that these events, and the fact that they appeared in the media, or that in the media from those events a public debate on tourism was raised, is what reflects – you say literally, and you have repeated it now in the justification of your inquiry – the need to address this debate in depth. I mean, if something doesn't come out in the media, it doesn't deserve to be debated? Or, on the other hand, is everything that comes out in the media what we should discuss? I disagree with that position. For a very long time the media have not dealt with social problems that should be dealt with in the public space, and of course in the political debate, and the same on the contrary: there have been signs and debates that did not correspond to reality, that were artificial debates, but that were projected from the media or certain protests, and then we were talking about that. That the agenda marks those kinds of events with regard to what problems we have, will allow me to disagree. Secondly, this position leads you to infer a series of facts that I again deny here. You tell me that it is clear that Basque cities suffer the negative consequences of tourism; Basque cities and particularly the historic centres of those cities. I denied him with data, in that appearance, that image that is intended to move from tourism in Euskadi, basically from the capitals, as capitals massified by tourism and besieged by the problems that this massed tourism produces. As I said, I deny it, and I denied it then with data (and I don't want to repeat it now here, but if you want then I give it again), with data, that we don't have a massive tourism neither in terms of the number of overnight stays by the population nor in terms of the number of hotel spaces by the population. Not even looking at the particular case of Donostia-San Sebastián, which in these indices is below, for example, cities like Santander, or cities like Santiago de Compostela. If you tell me that these other cities are massed, only from that point of view can we accept that San Sebastian is massed too. In relation to this we have to distinguish between tourists and hikers, and they are different problems. With regard to the policies of the department, I said to him then and I repeat now that tourism in Euskadi has been a long way behind sustainability. It is an element that appears in the tourist policies of Euskadi a long time ago. I did not even want to boast from the point of view of my political action in the short time I have been in charge of the responsibility of the Department of Tourism. And then I told him that the bet on sustainability precisely in the case of tourism in Euskadi is prior to the assumption of that bet by other administrations in Euskadi. Moreover, the first signature of the commitment to sustainability in the direction, design and management of tourism policies by the Department of Tourism (then it was a vice-counsel), and by its public company Basquetour, was a bet that had been taken even before the United Nations commitment to sustainable development goals. It does so in April, and the commitments for sustainable development in the United Nations, the 2030 Agenda, is from September 2018. It is a long-distance bet, which involved incorporating, from the eight departments at the time, six departments in sustainability policies aimed at tourism, and which fortunately, also based on this clarification of the 2030 Agenda and the commitment of the Basque Government itself, now extends to the action of the whole Basque public administration, at least at its maximum level of government. Tourism policies are developed in three key areas: sustainability, quality and professionalism, and management. With regard to sustainability, I have already told you that it is a long-distance bet, which is present in a multitude of actions precisely in the government's tourism area. In terms of quality and professionalism, I told him that there were a lot of programmes aimed specifically, and for years, at promoting good practices, at promoting technological development, at developing quality in the tourist services we offer, in the companies engaged in tourism activity. And that, in fact, the Basque Autonomous Community can boast of being the autonomous community of Spain that has the highest number of Q certifications of tourist quality in relation to the tourism activity of companies in other autonomous communities. In terms of organization, the Tourism Act is from last year. Where could the debate on the tourism model be, if it was not precisely within the framework of the drafting of that law? Which is from last year, it's from July last year. It has barely been a year since its entry into force. And for the elaboration of that law there was not only a debate here among its lords, but the participation of a lot of agents, who were heard, was incorporated. Better or worse, but they were heard. And then there was a debate about tourism. I do not think that there could be a debate on a law that also reformulated the old law, the old law, so to speak, of tourism of the year 1994, a pioneer at that time for a community in which there was so little tourism activity. When we finally face the need for reform of that law of 94, it seems a little strange that the need to discuss, to talk about the tourism model did not arise. Several laws, and even the amendment of the previous law, refer specifically to the commitment in Euskadi for a sustainable tourism model, which is then reflected in its policies. As a result of all this, when we analyze tourists, our tourists do not correspond at all... We don't just talk about numbers in terms of whether or not we have tourist saturation: when we look specifically at tourists, tourists don't look anything like the type of tourist, if you want the type of traveler, who goes to those destinations – and that's what I reject – with those who seem to want to identify with the tourist destination Euskadi. They don't look like anything. Its characteristics... In particular, if you want, I'll give you some data. The tourist who visits Euskadi is different, according to Ibiltur's study. Among the main motivations of the tourist arriving in our country, the first is the one known as city breaks, that is, they seek urban tourism; the second of them is food and wine (21%), followed by culture and events, very related to the first, and behind is tourism touring and coastal tourism, both with 12%. It doesn't look like that kind of tourism. Not even the profile of the tourist, as a result of those tourist policies, as a result of what we promote, what kind of tourist we seek, does not at all resemble the profile of the tourist of those massive destinations. That is where we should also observe that criticism, which is what I reject, that position not of debate on tourism, which seems very interesting to me, especially because we are actually seeing in the world how there is a change in the pattern of travel usage in the world. But let that happen and let's consider what its impact on Euskadi can't take us mechanically to identify that that's what we have, because we don't have it. That's what I reject. I do not refuse to discuss tourism, but Euskadi's identification as a massive and perverse destination. Tourism brings benefits in itself, because it helps us look at ourselves differently. It brings benefits to the local economy, because it promotes products of the local economy. And it also coincides with Euskadi's own internationalization strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u134	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u135	Mr Retortillo, the truth that you have here made a reflection and an initial comment on whether the debate does not exist, or the debates do not exist until they appear in the media. We cannot agree more that that is an absolute fallacy and that is not real, and under no circumstances have I said it further. What I have said, and we have also said it in several speeches, has been that it is a result of a series of headlines and a debate that seems to us to be simplistic, and that it seems to us that it is not appropriate... Of course, you're telling me about the Tourism Act a year ago. Let me tell you that I was not in this House a year ago. Even so, the tourist model, the reflection on the tourist model must be done. But not because the media say so, because we were already talking in previous speeches about, for example, points of Euskadi... Because you are committed to saying that we are talking about a joint massification throughout the Basque Country, in all matters relating to the tourism of the Basque Country. That's not true. There are points of Euskadi that are massive, and above all there are points of Euskadi that may be in the coming years. And of course we are asking about the measures because what we want to see is what we want to see. We're not Barcelona, we're not Venice, it's true, but we want to predict that. Then, it is clear that the debates are not just about what comes out in the media. But that's one thing we haven't said at any time. We are talking about what is happening with tourism in Euskadi, and it is true that we have done so many times in the Old Part of Donostia because it is a reality. It's a reality, even if you want to deny it. It also seems to us that not acting against the illegal tourist flats, or doing so in such a lukewarm way that it is ineffective, after repeated neighborhood complaints, or approving regulations of terraces that sacrifice the public space for the benefit of the hospitality... Public banks have been removed so that a cafeteria can put its tables on the sidewalk! You can say "This is your opinion." Yes, but it's a well-founded opinion. Because, of course, why would Mayor Eneko Goia announce that the Old Party will be declared in 2018 area saturated with tourist apartments? What's the matter, that so far they haven't realized what the situation was? It will not be because the association of neighbors and other agents have not been warning. Mr Goia's announcement can only be warned as a more explicit and implicit acceptance that at least the appropriate measures have not been taken. Meanwhile, the PNV, as every time it is faced with a controversial citizen who does not like it, tries to reduce everything to its confrontation with the left abertzale, a land in which it is undoubtedly much more comfortable. From the institutions they try to reassure the population with messages that repeat here constantly, of the type "In Basque the tourism sector still has room for growth", "Among the people in general there is no perception that there is saturation", or, as I told you before, "This is not Barcelona, nor Mallorca, nor Venice". Yeah, we know that. And they do it even though they know it's not true. They also know that saying these things does not at all alleviate the situation that we are pointing out, as is the case in the Old Party, or in sectors that, for example, see their right to access housing being further curtailed because rents are being fired; nor are women workers, which is an issue to which you have made no mention, who see their working conditions worsen and how the sector is precarious. A tourism – we have said this many times – of quality is not so if it does not have quality jobs. Thus, we would not be surprised if some people preferred to play the card of tourismophobia or radicalism to face the responsibility of taking effective measures to combat the negative consequences of poor local management. I'll give you data. According to the Association of Neighbors Parte Zaharrean Bizi, about 6,000 people live there on a fixed basis. All of them live with a gigantic tourist offer. In this neighborhood there are 62 of the 81 pensions that exist in Donostia; in this way, the visitor will be able to choose between 208 tourist apartments, two hotels in progress and another one under construction, adding an offer of 1,600 beds. The figures also indicate that there is one hostel for every 29 inhabitants. However, it is not gold all that glitters: according to a study carried out by the neighbouring organization, at least 84% of the offer of tourist flats in the Old Party is illegal. With this data in view, the neighbors fear that this neighborhood will eventually become a theme park. In short, Mr Retortillo, if we do not take the appropriate measures, the indiscriminate growth of the number of tourists will have negative consequences for the tourism sector in Euskadi. It's better to prevent than to continue to regret it. It's not all a matter of numbers. I've been telling you, he's done a few interventions already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u137	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Garcia, I'm surprised by the data you've given. One hotel in San Sebastián every 29 inhabitants? Well, worse than a monopoly city! It's full of hotels! It can't be, a hotel every 29 inhabitants can't be. He must have wanted to say something else. One hotel in every 29 inhabitants? Jolin, I think so! In that case, if that were the case, there would actually be a tourist saturation. Hotel establishment, eh!, I insist. He tells me... I have not talked about tourismophobia – I also said it in that appearance – I have not used the word tourismophobia in any case. I was against it, because that is the result of that, of the simplistic headlines you were talking about, which immediately appeared the label, and, I don't know why, started to turn the debate around that label. I have not talked at any time about tourismophobia, and I am not going to talk about tourismophobia, because I do not think there would be tourismophobia, but, if I read what you say here, it says: "The expected consequences of the determined commitment of the Basque institutions to sell Euskadi as an opportunity territory in the global market of tour operators, a market in which cities, unique spaces, the so-called cultural offer, is offered as a product that seeks to attract investment." This is not that it is tourismophobia; what seems, what seems to be breathing is the rejection of tourism, which is a legitimate position politically but which I do not share. Moreover, it is quite in contradiction with your own assertions in the first parliamentary appearance I had in January of this year. It doesn't fit very well, what he said then about tourism, with this mercantilist view, etc., which seems to project about tourism activity, as if it didn't exist in other types of activities. Is there a problem in the cities? Of course. Is there a problem with the historic helmets? Of course. Are those problems new? No, no, There are problems, for example, you said, with the rent. The problems of renting, unfortunately, have not been present in this country for two, three, four or five years. Neither the rent nor the property of the house, nor the possibility of young people becoming independent. They are very long-distance, and have many other elements, and that is also a negative element. Not only do I reject this debate if it arises in terms of identifying the Euskadi destination as a mass destination, as a dirty destination, because it also drives away the type of tourist we specifically address. I also reject it because they end up being identified, serious problems and serious problems that suffer sectors, segments of our population, end up being identified with a frivolous cause: it is tourism that ends up giving rise to high prices. Yes, yes, Mrs. Garcia! He's just identifying himself, over and over again... And not the inflexibility of supply, the increase in demand, because people don't get mortgages, because the bubble burst... You'd know the bubble broke! This has created problems in the housing market added to those we were already bringing. Identify tourism as the cause of these problems and other urban problems in the city, and specifically in the old town. Sounds like a frivolity to me. I'll tell you more. We have spoken before about the importance for public debate of the fact that some things come to the front pages or do not come to the front pages. I would like to see in addition to this debate, in addition to this complaint, in addition to these citizens' demands, many other demands that take place in the context of the city, even if they are in areas further away from the centre, also come with that ease to the front pages. Perhaps in that case we would consider them for public debate. I insist, I do not deny or close myself to the debate on tourism, because it is true that the culture of travel has changed; eye, with a positive element, eh!, democratization. Because in that that only some travel I don't agree either. But it is true that it can cause problems, which in some places has in fact generated them, but to face that debate let us not identify Euskadi as a mass destiny... Yes, he does! He does. He does. You do it over and over again. Over and over again. Let us not identify Euskadi as a mass destination, in the first place. Let us not frustrate the public debate on very serious problems, secondly. Thirdly, let us raise the debate in a calm way, as has been raised at other times. What is striking to me is that precisely because of those events that you said, not all right, not all fair, that because of those events we turned to the debate on tourism in Euskadi and put it in negative terms. Why? Because tourism is good for Euskadi. He's good at himself. It is good for other sectors of activity in Euskadi, and it also favors the necessary internationalization strategy of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u138	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Edurne Garcíagarmæ, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Cultura and Language Polic, about the decalogation of the Building of the Fair Arts of Donostia." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u139	Good morning. Mr. Zupiria, has the mandatory procedure of meeting the Advisory Council on Monumental Architectural Heritage of Euskadi-Monumentu Ondarean Aholku Batzordea been completed to carry out the decatalogation of the building of the Fine Arts of Donostia, as provided for in the Basque Cultural Heritage Act in its article 19.1? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u141	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Mrs García, in your oral question you have just stated that the Government has proceeded with the decatalogation of the Palacio Bellas Artes de Donostia and that for this purpose it should have assembled the Advisory Council on Heritage. He has also stated that the classification of cultural property at the Palacio de Bellas Artes is withdrawn. As you are well aware, because it has been reported on several occasions, both in full and in committee, the Basque Government in September 2014 ordered to open the file for the inclusion of the Fine Arts building in the General Inventory of the Basque Cultural Heritage, a process that gave rise to the order of the Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture Councillor of March 2015. Subsequently, in a judgment of 2017, the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country estimated the subsidiary claim articulated by the property and annulled the order of the department. Therefore, the return of the file implies the annulment of the order. In other words, the order does not exist in the legal system. Legally, therefore, this inscription has not existed, and the building in question has never been catalogued. As it is not listed, section 19.1 of the Cultural Heritage Act does not apply. Therefore, the Order of 4 October 2017 has been signed and published, which expressly states, first, that judgment number 196/2017 of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country is enforced, which considers the subsidiary claim articulated by Sade and therefore annuls the contested decision. Sentence that has become firm. Second, it agrees not to register the Palacio Bellas Artes de San Sebastián as a cultural property with the category of monument in the General Inventory of the Basque Cultural Heritage, considering that its cultural valuation does not correspond to that of the goods of greatest relevance or singularity, a condition necessary for its preservation to ultranza in a situation of ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u143	Mr. Zupiria, with regard to the procedure for decatalyzing an inventory of cultural property, article 19.1 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act states that "in order to render the declaration ineffective, it must be subject to the same requirements and procedures as in order to declare it". The Fine Arts was declared cultural well after the positive report of the Advisory Council of the Monumental Architectural Heritage of Euskadi-Monumentu Ondarean Aholku Batzordea. That council has not been convened to rule on this matter, according to the information we have. It would therefore be a clear breach of the law, Mr Zupiria. In addition, Article 19.2 adds that "the provisions of Article 15(2) and (3) shall be taken into account". Paragraph 2 states: "The administrative act by which the qualification is to be terminated shall be justified". And point 3 states: "The alteration of the conditions which gave rise to the classification cannot be a determining cause for the effects referred to in the preceding paragraph, if the new state of the property concerned is due to the breach of the obligations required by this law". The Sade, with the invaluable help of the Basque institutions governed by PNV and PSE, has been unfulfilled for years, and you have allowed them for years to breach their obligations under the law, with the serious damage that this has caused to the building, which now make available the same property for their speculative operations. The Basque culture matters to you only if it is linked to the checkbook, to large cultural infrastructures with American surnames. Abertzalista bursátil. Nor has the Basque Government made the economic assessment that would justify the consideration of economic ruin or in fact, when the rehabilitation of the building exceeds the amount of construction by 50%. That's called replacement value. On the other hand, from a strictly political point of view, you have failed to comply with the GNP adopted on 28 May 2017 by a majority in the Basque Parliament requesting that the declaration of cultural property of the building be maintained. And, which is absolutely shameful, the citizens who appeared in the Committee on Culture on 9 October were caught up in defending their maintenance as a cultural asset, when the councillor's order had been signed five days earlier, and neither the opposition nor the citizens who appeared were informed of it. In this case you have put yourselves at the service of the interests of a company that has laughed at the citizenship of Donostia, its institutions and all in general, which you now reward by offering them the possibility of doing with the Fine Arts whatever they want. Your cultural policy, Mr Zupiria, is portrayed as a servant of speculative interests. You'll know what yours are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u145	Mrs García, I do not feel able to enter into a legal debate with you on this issue. The Government's legal services consider that the judgment of the High Court of Justice reflects the situation in which the property was described or inventoried earlier. Therefore, from there we make the decisions we must make. The sentence also says the building is in ruins. It is a declaration that guarantees the property rights of that building, of a private property. Rights can only be prevented on the basis of a statement by public administrations, which would mean assuming a huge amount of property responsibility to protect without requiring anything in return. Property liability which should fall by a high percentage in the budget of the Basque Autonomous Community. The property has demanded an amount of EUR 5 million from the Government. Having said that, and bearing in mind that we are talking about private property, do you understand that the building should be granted an interest that is above its real value? We understand you don't. And we must not forget that the building in question is already sufficiently protected with grade C in the Special Plan for the Protection of the Urban Heritage of Donostia. And I refer to what Mayor Eneko Goia pointed out in this Parliament last week. I share with Mr. Mayor of Donostia that the best thing for this case is to ensure basic protection for the Bellas Artes building, and to make that protection compatible with its use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "About the coverage given to the Independent process of Catalan by the lawmen of the Basque Groups of Populak." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Councilman, this is not the first time that the political use of Basque public television has been highlighted in this Parliament. It is not the first time that the objectivity and impartiality of ETB, or the failure to fulfil the objectives contained in the law on the constitution of the entity, respect for political pluralism and the promotion of civic values of coexistence enshrined in the Constitution and the Statute, have been undermined. This political use, this gross political instrumentalization, has become evident in the publications that on Catalonia has issued ETB since September, and more intensely since 1 October. Published reports designed to serve a political positioning, the political positioning of Puigdemont and Junqueras, the political positioning of the independence project. Do you believe, Mr. Counsellor, that quantitatively and qualitatively it has been objective and provided the treatment that has been given on what happened in Catalonia in ETB? Quantitatively, we have asked how much the programmes that have ceased to be issued and the new ones that have been designed, as well as the deployment of envoys to Catalonia, have cost. But I want to ask you: Do you believe, Mr. Counsellor, that this is justified on a TV paid with the money of all Basques? Has this profuse deployment occurred in other events, with an objectively greater public and media impact? And qualitatively, Mr. Zupiria, do you believe that the treatment that has been made of what has happened in Catalonia has been the right one?, that it has been objectively informed?, that it has been impartial? Don't you think he's been biased? Do you really believe that the criteria that have prevailed have been informative criteria, or, on the other hand, has the criterion of service been imposed for a specific political purpose?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u148	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u149	President andrea, representative of the People's Party. I think it is customary in democratic governments not to give public opinion about the editorial line or the information coverage that these media offer to information events, whether these public or private media. You are likely not to share that view and feel closer to other governments that do. This Government does not establish informational criteria, and this Government maintains an attitude of respect for the professional criteria and editorial decisions of how many professionals and managers make these decisions day by day. I insist, both in the public and in the private media. As far as EITB is concerned, this Government respects the autonomy of the professionals and managers responsible for making editorial decisions, and in the same way respects the autonomy of the bodies that the law has created for the control of EITB, such as its board of directors and the Parliamentary Control Commission of EITB, bodies of which you are a member and where you can exercise your legitimate right of control and censorship. So I invite you to do so where you should do so, and I ask you to respect the autonomy of EITB and its organs and not to confuse the government in EITB's editorial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u150	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u151	Mr Councilman, the Basque Government has a programme contract with EITB which is the one that primarily finances EITB, and under that programme contract a number of purposes have to be fulfilled, and the Basque Government has to ensure that those purposes are met. And, counselor, Basque society has to be reflected on public television, and at the moment it cannot be reflected, because how it will be reflected, if what it thinks is one thing and what is broadcast on ETB is another! Basque society is not largely independent. This is what the Euskobarometer says, which says that independence has a support of around 30%. The Deustobarometer says it stays at 16%. But what is more, the EiTB Focus itself, which was made by the public body EITB, said that 70% of Basques did not want the Catalan process to be repeated in Euskadi. And this despite the image that ETB has given of what happened in Catalonia. Because it has given an idyllic image, a romantic image, trying to sell the goodness of the Catalan process, profusion of images of the independenceists and calming down the position of those who want to continue to belong and that Catalonia continues to belong to Spain and Europe. At a time when, as I say, independence is low, however, from EITB it is a question of feeding, breathing and weighting that feeling. And it is that, when it comes to serving a political interest, everything is worth on Basque public television. Everything goes well: to make new programs, to make nine hours of broadcast on Catalonia, to bring to contrtulios always of the same sign, and even to ask bochornosas questions like this. [[Shows two photos]] Do you think that with a television that costs us more than 11 million euros a month to the Basques you can ask questions as loud as this? Mr Zupiria, this is not political yellowing, this is indoctrination, and the Basques do not deserve a public television that indoctrinates us. We deserve an objective, truthful public television that respects political pluralism. And ETB right now is far from that. And you have responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u152	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u153	Mrs Llanos, I have known and understood the difficult environment in which information and communication professionals are involved, both in EITB and in other media, because they have to make decisions day by day, almost every minute, and they are also exposed to political criticism that is not always well-intentioned. I know and understand this difficulty that occurs in both EITB and other Basque groups and media. Society demands that everyone be honest and truthful, and that they strive to seek different views and views on the issues that are currently raised. They are also obliged to respond to the editorial line that their owners mark (in the case of private media, their boards of directors and their shareholders' boards). And in the case of the public media they must do so according to the plurality represented in their control bodies, ultimately according to the plurality of the political and social expressions that exist in our society and in this House. And EITB officials, like those of other media, are doing their work in this context. Allow me to conclude by commenting on plurality. Reality is not unique; it is perceived differently by each other, and is interpreted according to a diversity of views that exist in society. It would be advisable for all media to be aware of that social and political plurality and to collect it in their broadcasts. But I also believe that the mere existence of EITB is a guarantee of that plurality. I am convinced that Basque society could not hear many of the expressions that this plurality has if EITB did not exist, because the truth is that there is often no place to see them, nor where to hear them, nor where to read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six.
