ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Know beforehand that the sixth point will be discussed in the eighth place, and the eighth in the sixth place. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Louis Javier Tellería Sheetols, a member of the Eubertarian Society, made to the Chief of Economics, and Subventures, about the strategic planning of nutrients." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u1	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Well, that's how it goes. The European Union seems to have preferred the maintenance of food and food to the future. To determine this policy of priority, the European News and technology Institute has recently chosen a share in the Food4furiture calling. This Party will develop its pioneering initiative to promote a permanent chain of nutrients for the establishment of nutrient food. This consortium, made up of fifty leading companies, universities and research centres, represents a wide range of experts from European and associated countries, including the Basque technology centre AZTI and the Basque company Angulas de Aguinaga. This means, on the one hand, that we have enough companies and centres of knowledge to join the leadership of European food, and, on the other hand, that we will have the privilege of being able to follow very closely the innovations and suggestions that arise from the award-winning consortium. At the same time, Your Honor, the chief physician, you explained to us recently on the committee the planning of your department for this legislation. You proposed a number of plans and programmes. Among them was the strategic plan of the gastrolides. This novel proposal joins the fact that it has included food as a niche of opportunity within the RIS3 strategy and within its bioscience priority area. All this indicates that food, and all that it entails, is one of your department's priorities for this legislature. In our group, too, we believe that political privilege must be given to nutritious food, from the first production, whether to pass or not from transformation, and to the market-chains. We must give a political priority to food as a health value, and as a source for research and development as a new technology developed as a better market. And although food has always been important (I think I remember that it was García Márquez who said that food is as important as love, only the latter does not feed), it has become of fundamental importance, both from the perspective of knowledge linked to food production (both from primary production and from successive transformations) and from the new knowledge linked to new food, and especially new knowledge linked to the relationship between health and food. For this reason, the European Union has placed its strategic priorities on the frontline for the next five years for food. In view of all that has been said, Madam Counsellor, what time frame does your department plan to present the food strategic plan already discussed? And, considering the presence of Basque companies, to what extent will this future plan be aligned with the plans that the EU can draw up through the winning consortium of the Food for Future call? Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, the Lobby Boy, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Tellería, as you mentioned, has been planned for the gastrolication, and of course he's completely connected with the duties of this international division. We have a number of projects on our schedule, but as these projects are obviously connected to the food, everyone must unite and be aligned. This is something that comes from the previous law. You said that we've placed food in the RIS3 strategy as important, and that's because, after all, economic activity and jobs are also produced, and in that sense our society must be very conscious that this is the case. Today, if we take the nutrient in general, it's more than 10% of the raw internal product, it's almost 100,000 people who work there. If we start from the first sector, that is, from the production world, and if we end up in gastronomy at the end, then in our redemption, it's a hell of a lot of work and importance. If we look at Europe, 62% of European consumers also tell us that they are willing to pay a little more for these products to be close and sustainable. And we also have to consider the environmental impact of all the agri-food activity. If we also see that in Europe the population is increasingly ageing, stagnant, in need or in demand of new products and new ways of making them more sustainable, healthier at the moment, and that the whole urban plot assumes that the demands we are making at the moment are different, we must consider them as something really new and that sometimes creates doubts, but of course great opportunities. In Euskadi we are committed and we are also willing to work with the entire agri-alimetary sector, with the whole value chain, so that everything we produce, distribute and consume all the people we live in Euskadi is in the best possible way, as sustainable as possible. Moreover, within the European framework, as you said, in the EIT Food initiative we have managed to ensure that two players (a technology centre, AZTI, and a company, Angulas de Aguinaga) are working in a very integrated and participatory way – let's say –. The EIT will work on four areas: communication, innovation, entrepreneurship and training. And the next step from the department will be to consider the food plan as something that we have to start up in a short time, increasing food production in Euskadi, producing quality food for healthy aging – given that in Euskadi the population is ageing at a high speed – and developing a sustainable territory, producing sustainable and healthy products, and structuring and bringing together different initiatives that are being launched in Euskadi. On 3 April, since we already have a first approximation of that plan, we will have a meeting with the whole sector, from the most production to the last, of gastronomy, to incorporate the inputs, the different observations that are made by all agents of the value chain, so that we already have a structured plan and we can present it before this very summer of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, find out if I'm a member of the United States of the United States, about the President of the New Year." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u5	Yes, good morning. Today, March 3, up the staff fight! When we saw the budget project, we realized that fun has increased the structure of climbers and advisors. In particular, high rates pass from 147 to 164. In the case of counselers, the increase is still greater: 72 to '92. In total, 37 more jobs in my mindbook, with a top of 2,4 million dollars. This is why we believe at the moment, and when we are required to press our belt from the government, it is logical to ask the following question: Do you think, Mr. President, that this is the right way to increase the number of high-ranking and advisors in this way in the economic situation, when you realize that you are using the excuse of economic boundaries systematicly to reject certain social claims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours... Mr. Casanova, please take him with you. Let each of you take his own things, please. (Upside.) Please take her away. Please. It's just respect for others. I think he had it with you. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. And at the same time, good day to all the members of the legislative class, and to all the lords and ladies. Mr. Casanova, yes, the new government has 11 different sections to handle 11 billion euros. And I think it's a fair proportion. That's why we decided. It is true that the former Government had only eight departments, but experience has informed us that the program we have agreed to do better with this new structure. As you know, in the last 30 years, we've always known coalification bars in the Euscad, and whether they've been coalition or alone governments, the current Government is the least structure, that is, if it's an iceberg that's less elevated. For the past 30 years, all governments have always had more than 250 tops, except one, which has been a former government. I want to emphasise the work and commitment of these 250 people. Like I said, they have to handle 11 billion Euros. The whole thing needs to be corrected by the job of 700,000 people. We have more than we ever had, more transparency than ever, more responsibilities to society and to this legislature. So I think it's fair to emphasize the work and commitment of these 250 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u9	Mr. Urkullu, don't try to make us commulgate with mill wheels. He has climbed thirty-seven senior positions in his Government's organizational chart. And in addition, in one of the first interviews you gave after creating the government, you said that the emergence of three new councils was not going to involve a proliferation of high offices, because, in fact – at the level immediately below the councils – there were already vice-advisors and directorates, even if they were plunged into macro-advisors. It has therefore failed to comply with what it said, it has caused an inflation of the organic structure of the Government, and it has done so for a simple reason: for the partisan needs of its agreement with the Socialist Party. The structure of his Government was designed to respond not to the needs of the people of that country, but to the needs of his government agreement. That is why it has created a Department of Labor without Lanbide, that is why it has created a Department of Territory Planning without infrastructure, and that is why it has created a Department of Commerce and Tourism without budget. And since the Socialist Party is only going to be responsible for managing 4% of the country's budget, what has been generous about is the handing over of high offices. They have used high offices not to perform a role in the service of the citizenry, but to meet the needs of their agreement. You were asked how many hairs the PNV in the pact with the PES has left in the cateran, and I replied, "I would say none." I put the question to you in another way: How many charges has the PNV been left on the trigger? None. I mean, you keep the high offices you held in the previous legislature, and you give the Socialist Party the newly created ones. With what is falling as a result of the economic crisis, of the proliferation of cases of corruption, with the discredit of politics, with the discredit of the public and of the collective in which we are living in recent years, we must be extremely careful with these issues, and it seems to us a genuine exercise of irresponsibility to play in this way, at a time when people are constantly being asked to tighten their belts, and they are being answered in budgetary terms that there is no money to meet much more pressing needs than the creation of new senior positions. Therefore, it seems to me that it is not demagogic, but responsibility, to denounce this kind of bad political practice, which constitutes an entirely anti-example, an absolutely anti-pedagogic counter-example, because there are some, many, who want to use all this for their own benefit, especially from the right, to discredit all the public and to discredit all the collective, to promote the privatization of everything, even of decision-making, and therefore those who defend the public and the collective must be extremely careful and to preach with the example. The structure of this Government does not respond to the needs of individuals; it responds to the needs of its pact. This proliferation of high offices is the bill you have to pay to the Socialist Party; but the Nationalist Party bills, please, that you pay them and do not refer them to the citizenry through budgets, that enough citizens have to pay their own bills.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Señor Casanova, despues del totum revolutum vayamos al grando. And what really bothered me is your reference to credibility. Look, as we acknowledge the labor of all public workers, we respect and accept the labour of the higher nations. This Parliament has all its means of continuing and controlling this job, so it's up to the legislature to keep track of it. But what I do not understand, nor even admit, is the excess you have used in this matter. That's what you did, Mr. Casanova. The high people, with all their commitments, with all transparency, professionalism, without time, and with all the responsibility for all public control, do their work, Mr. Casanova. I repeat: they deserve respect and approbation at least in the rank of all public workmen. It's true we have to spend more than 4000,000, but in fact, Mr. Casanova. The government will spend over 126 million dollars in total this year, and in the budget all public services will receive more money, as has been shown in phenomena and expressions. More rights than ever and more budget than ever. To answer these challenges, we have completed the second smallest structure we have ever known. The previous Government was, I insist, the one with the lowest structure in thirty years. We have now consciously decided to form a government with eleven departments, appropriate to the challenges and needs we face. He is the second youngest, with less public office, in thirty years. We have made a commitment to lead more public personnel, manage more budget, and we will do so with transparency and commitment, working together and effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Lander Martín, the Congress member of the Podemos team made for the president about the number of our new-made equivocations." Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u13	Good morning, everyone. Thank you. At a time when, according to your Economic Adviser, the budgets will have to be particularly tight and unhindered, when your Housing Adviser says he does not have enough resources to make the policies he would like, when the GIR does not increase what he should, excused in the sustainability of the system, Urkullu jauna, how do you justify that your Government is the highest office in the last six years?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Zabala, the highest-ranking government in the last six years has not. The previous Government had had the least charges in thirty years, and the current one was the second lowest. The second minor. It is true that budgets are adjusted, but they are especially adjusted for internal structure expenditure. The budget has grown by 1.2%, and expenditure on public management by 0.02%. The priority is social policies, and they are guaranteed in the budgets, as I said in the first intervention, as explained in the presentation of the draft budgets. Essential services have more economic resources than in the previous year. We made a strong effort to contain and manage the past legislature, and now we have defined the most appropriate structure to manage the programme, to manage and to meet the country challenges we have. We have defined a structure with 250 positions to lead and coordinate eleven departments, with 11 billion budget and 70,000 workers. It is the necessary structure, and I will tell you that, in thirty years (in thirty years), the previous government and the latter have had the least number of public officials. It is the Government with the largest budget, the Government with the most complete planning. We need this structure to respond to all needs, including the 13,552 initiatives required by this Parliament to the Government during the past legislature: appearances, 615; transposition of regulations, 207; interpellations, 580; questions, 7,202; proposals for law or not, 956; requests for information, 3,902. A total of 13,552 initiatives required by this Parliament in the last parliamentary term. And in this, in less than a hundred days, we already have 659 initiatives required of the government. I insist, this is the government with more budgets, more commitments to manage, and more initiatives to implement before this Parliament. Therefore, the structure is necessary, adequate and adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u17	Mr. President, I hear you, I listen to you carefully, and I try to understand, but I can't. I didn't come here today with a question to throw out his ears. I wanted to make you aware of the dimension of your decisions. Your decisions. Sometimes your Economics Advisor, your Government, is trying to make us see that everything is determined and that they have no room to do other things. But that's not true, because there is scope, and these weeks we're going to try to show it. We will show it to you with spending, pointing out that social spending for you has not been one of your priorities. We're going to do it with fiscal policy, showing how you don't want to make him pay more than he has. And we're going to do it today by reporting that while they don't find money for housing, education or health policies, or to guarantee income to those who are going through the worst, they do find that money to increase high-ranking positions and advisors. Total, 164 goi-kargu, 92 advisor. Aurreko Gobernuaren village, 37 kontratazi berri; total, %17 gehiago. This represents 2,400,000 euros of expenditure for the citizen's pocket. Diru hori, EUR 2.4 million, is not spent on more useful and socially necessary things. Beyond these figures, he did want to make a correlation: each adviser or senior position equals 105 families charging GIR for one month; each adviser or senior position equals the dining grant of 91 boys or girls; each adviser or senior position equals the annual pharmaceutical co-payment of 928 people; each adviser or senior position equals the light bill of 62 households. Urkullu jauna: Is it true that a government that says it has no money for social benefits, to invest in housing policies, to meet the needs of citizens, finds it to increase the number of senior positions? We cannot fail to remember that, while spending on health or education has not recovered pre-crisis levels, that of advisors and senior officials is the highest in the last six years. Today, Mr Urkullu, I have not simply come to give you this increase, but we want to point out to you a question of irrevocable coherence. In recent months, his Economic Adviser said that he aspired to the support of our group for the budget proposal. We have pointed out three requirements: one, prioritisation of social spending and job creation; two, a comprehensive tax reform; and three, examples of austerity. Today you have thrown balloons out with data, etc., but it is you who dismiss our party and progressive forces when they inflate the hiring of advisors and senior positions, while they fall...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mr. President, your word is yours. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Zabala, I think you have to review the figures a lot, but a lot, but a lot. A lot. What do you not understand when I say that the budget has increased by 1.2% and that expenditure on senior managers or managers is 0.02% in the budget? What is it that we do not understand when we say that social expenditure in this government's draft budgets amounts to 76%, the most that has ever been in a budget? Look, social spending for this government is more priority than, comparatively, any social spending in a municipal government of Podemos. [[Barres]] First of all, I'm just trying to show you how high I am. All (yes, Mrs. Arana, yes) are 250 persons, and they are engaged to handle 11,000 euros and correct the work of 60,000 people. In our management, in the past we have shown rigour and responsibility, also in public spending. And I can assure Basque citizens that we have a reasonable structure, appropriate to the challenges of the country we face, committed to what is executive direction and committed also to the demands that this Parliament requires. That's what the right structure is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera by Eusia Sociialists to the chief of Tourism, commerce, and Konstamo, about the number of foreign tourists in Eukadin." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u21	Thank you, President. Lehendakari jauna, good morning. Egun where we're supposed to be. Mr Councilman, last January the media echoed various data on the tourism sector. They even praised the fact that there was an annual historical record. They encrypted visitors' admissions at three and a half million admissions, and exceeded seven million overnight stays. But, at the same time as these positive data were being given, there was also a news that also produced some doubts about the evolution of tourism in the Basque Country. On the one hand, the INE's Frontur survey indicated that there had been a 12% drop in admissions and, on the other hand, other sources, such as the hotel occupancy survey, which was also used in public appearances, had this entry of tourists at 1,321,523 admissions. This meant an increase of 11.1%. Eustat, on the same subject, counted the increase in tourist arrivals in Euskadi by 10%. Therefore, discrepancies..., but also not only discrepancies, but they are very different in the data, in many cases excessively different, and this makes it difficult, not to say hinders, the agents of the tourism sector and also the public administrations to carry out a serious analysis, to have a reliable diagnosis regarding what happens in the tourism sector, and therefore also to propose or take appropriate measures and decisions to what is happening in that sector. And at the same time implement policies that are also timely and appropriate to these needs. Surely the combination of various factors is what produces such disparate data. Subjects such as the use of various methodologies, going to various sources, or even a poor match of some indicators to what is today's reality, are the trigger of such different data, even antagonistic data, which can confuse both industry agents and administrations in making a clear diagnosis of what is happening in the tourism sector. And, therefore, it makes it almost impossible to put forward and make strategic decisions about it. That is why, as a member of the Socialist Group, we wanted your assessment of what is happening with this data, and that is why we asked you what measures you and your department are going to take to have a series of data that are the basis of a reliable diagnosis and then to be able to make the right decisions in response to the needs of the tourism sector, a sector that is increasingly influencing the Basque economy. And you are about to make a master tourism plan that will integrate the Strategic Plan 2017-2020, which requires a clear and reliable diagnosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Retortillo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Corcuera, indeed, the 2016 closing statistics on the volume of foreign tourists have shown some discrepancy in the data, and that, as you pointed out, to put it mildly. Since, indeed, when the data they express is a discrepancy, which on the one hand indicates, from Frontur's data, that there is a 12% decrease in the volume of foreign tourists in Euskadi, while the data from the hotel occupation survey give, on the one hand, an increase of 11% to the accountant, I said, discrepancy is the most generous way to refer to this situation. Both the Frontur survey and the hotel occupancy survey are drawn up by the same institute, by the National Institute of Statistics, and you ask me which one of them offers a greater picture of the number of foreign tourists in Euskadi. Obviously, as a Basque tourism advisor I want to say that the right one is the one that gives us a rise and not the one that gives us a descent. It's the natural thing. But it is also that in this case it is the truth. First – you were referring to this – probably a change in methodology or a different methodology is what explains these discrepancies. First, he said, the Frontur survey has undergone a change in methodology, because during 2015 it was developed by the Institute of Tourist Studies, while in 2016 the National Institute of Statistics has already been responsible for this survey. And not only has the survey holder changed, but the methodology has changed, especially in the sample selection. Therefore, the comparison of 2015 and 2016 data should be taken with caution. The result for 2017 will probably be more accurate in the 2016-2017 comparison, with a homogeneous methodology. But the most relevant thing in this case is to identify that both surveys measure different things, even if we end up talking about the entrance of foreign tourists. In the case of Frontur, what it does is a survey of tourists according to the entrances that occur at the Spanish borders by land, sea or air, analyzing the data of ports and airports and the measurement estimates that are carried out by road at the border points. And that survey, what you're asking is about the main destination. If a person says he comes to Euskadi, but comes to spend a day and then goes to Navarra and spends four days, or goes to Asturias and spends four days, the main destination becomes the one in which he spends the most time, and therefore for this survey does not count as a foreign tourist entrance in Euskadi. In the case of the hotel occupancy survey it is addressed to the hotels and what measures are the overnight stays, and therefore if someone of foreign origin stays overnight in a hotel establishment in Euskadi counts as a foreign tourist, regardless of how much time he spends or whether he spends more time elsewhere. For this reason, the data from the hotel survey is much more accurate. In addition, we have the contrast, as you also pointed out, of the survey of tourist establishments receiving from Eustat, which offers similar results. That's why I was saying that we can say that foreign tourism last year, in 2016, went up in Euskadi. This type of discrepancy occurs more frequently than should be due to the heterogeneity of sources, with different methodologies and measuring different things. Given the importance, indeed, of having precise data for decision-making, one of the fundamental tasks of my department, as I announced at the committee hearing, is precisely to reorder these statistics and the data of the observatory.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Five point in theme list: "Queer, Alfonso Alonso Arnezina, a member of the Popula team, made to the president about the legislation for this legislation." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not giving her ears today. I imagine there's a lot of people who do it every day. You need to come here and listen to other things. And I have to move a reality that is truly painful and that also denies that idyllic vision that they want to move us from the government on what is Euskadi. We are going to talk a little bit about education, also in relation to the announcement that you are going to bring a law to the House, or that is what you want, in order, I suppose, to put forward a different model. You'll tell me about this now. But I have to remind you how we are going, and what has been the failure of the model we have now, and what has happened in the evaluations, in the PISA tests. In science we have nothing more than three autonomous communities that are behind us, which are Canary Islands, Extremadura and Andalusia. The worst result of our history. On an equal socio-economic level, we are the last. In mathematics something similar happens to us: we are far below the average, we have retreated, and the Basque fourth grader of the ESO is the one who gets the worst result, gets the lowest score of all the autonomous communities. The same also happens in mathematics. We also have a problem of fairness in our system. Imagine, anyone who doesn't know or doesn't have enough English in the future..., a young Basqueman tomorrow won't be able to compete, you know; however, we are also in line in the knowledge of foreign languages. This is a problem of equity! The one with the money, I imagine, can train his son in English. What about the vast majority of families that do not have sufficient financial resources? We have to turn around the educational model in Euskadi, Mr Lehendakari, and truly take this as the main concern and the great priority for the future of our society. They've skipped all the alarms, but what's been done is disconnect the alarm. The same team, the same policy, also commits the added clumsiness of criticizing or blaming teachers, and we do not see, there does not seem to be a reaction on its part. A reaction that we ask of you, and that you take the lead, and that you take the lead, and that you take it as a very personal issue of leadership that you exercise in the Government and that you have to exercise in Euskadi. So, if you're gonna bring in a new law, do you think this is gonna fix it? Do you think the change of model needs that legal reform? What's your reaction? What shock plan, what initiative will it take to turn these results that sadden us all?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, bad results from the PISA report. And, without discussing the methodology of the PISA report – a question that is also under discussion in the OECD countries – I look at it, I accept it, and I was the first to raise a self-critical reflection on the need to analyse the issue in depth, to ask for improvement measures and to make them known to this Parliament. He has also raised in the justification "the malaise generated among the educational community". I don't accept that. We have shared a diagnosis with the community, we have raised the need for consensus on new measures. The community knows how to acquit what this report (the PISA report) represents, and, of course, the feeling is not of discomfort. He's willing to work to keep improving. You also say in the justification "great concern in Basque society". For I also accept it, I also accept it, and I recognize that I would like it to be even older, and, above all, more permanent. In fact, I raised education as one of the country's challenges in the debate on investiture. I don't hide the problems, and I'm willing to share a constructive critical diagnosis. However, we do not begin if we talk about "we are the worst results of the Basque education system". You will not have heard me thus disqualify the Spanish education system, and the results here are better, those of the Basque education system, Mr Alonso. One thing is the PISA report, and another is the Basque education system and all the resulting one at the end of all that is the period of study. Look, in Spain seven laws have been passed, although little has changed, and they have always suffered from a lack of consensus. The differential value of education in Euskadi (which, by the way, in Euskadi is where more people know English in the Spanish State), the differential value of education in Euskadi is consensus with the educational community. Our Government's approach will be to preserve and strengthen that consensus, to maintain equity and universality, and also to advance excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u29	Well, I'm worried about the self-criticism coming all the way out there alone. He says, "Say what PISA says, we're better than the rest of Spain." We're not better! If I was almost going to tell you to copy, like the bad students! Copy the Burgos, the Castile and the Lion! They get a lot better grades, they get a lot better results! Therefore, we have a problem in the model and a word that is hard but that must be heard, that is failure. We're failing! We are the ones who spend the most money on education, the ones who have the most economic capacity, and therefore we are the ones who are also obliged to go ahead, to be in excellence. But you keep saying we're better than the rest of Spain. And it has slipped one thing that was very surprising, which is to talk about national legislative frameworks. That I say they are the same everywhere in Spain, but with the same framework we have the worst result. But I meant... You say that then you will bring here a law. I don't know if a law will fix things or not. It also sounds to me, when you talk about the pact and the consensus, then about the ruler that when everything goes well it is my merit, and when everything goes wrong we share it among all, to see if we find a solution. I believe that this is not good behavior on the part of a ruler, but on the contrary: to take the bull by the horns and assume the problems. And he says they're going to bring in a new law, or it's going to be done, and they announce it's going to be at the end of 2019. Listen, if this is so important, how do you present a calendar where they say that education is left by the end of 2019? I'm really telling you: put on the batteries, work, and bring your preliminary draft, your draft, your draft education bill this year to the House. Change the calendar, and put education ahead of everything else, because it is the priority that Basque society needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, don't twist my words. Look, for thirty-five years this country has created a system of education that we should be proud of. Centres, teachers, families, share with the Administration the vision of a system that must continue to generate a shared commitment and implement continuous improvement measures. And this is what we're saying over and over again. Leadership? Look, the government is acting. In less than a hundred days the counselor has appeared here on three occasions. Before yesterday it presented a budget that grows by 2%, with investments and a new public offer of employment. It has committed a new appearance to detail the measures proposed to further improve the results of our education system. And I remind you of the number of people with university degrees or degrees compared to the rest of the state. These are measures that respond to the demands of the educational community itself, which have been presented or are going to be presented, and it is about moving forward on three strategic objectives: the classroom (the digital classroom), reading comprehension, the permanent adequacy of the faculty, in the face of the challenge of educating in a world that is constantly changing. Look, we've never settled down, and we face the challenge as an opportunity for continuous improvement. Euskadi has a good educational system built in community for thirty-five years. It is a collective work that we must continue to improve from consensus. A consensus that is achieved with realism, truth, responsibility and loyalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the Congressman of Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH, to the President of the Third of March to observe the victims and to confess them." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u33	Thank you, Mrs. President. Today the third of March, and in the third of March, I have a great recollection of many things. I want to remember Pedro Martínz Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romudo Barrso, José Castillo and Berevendo Perea. I want to remember the five dead who had suffered the savage violence of the Spanish police 41 years ago, hundreds of wounded and thousands of Gastesians. I would like to remind you of all those 41 days of the 3rd of March that have confirmed the commitment to fight for freedom, for democracy, for civil rights. And, of course, I want to greet and thank the members of the Association of Victims and Families of March 3, not only their tireless work, but their presence here today. We cannot forget, we must not forget, because forgetfulness is the end. Benedetti said: "Forgetfulness is not victory over evil or anything, and it is the veiled way of mocking history. He does not forget who pretends to be forgotten, but who can forget." And this people cannot and will not and will not forget. That's why it's the people who don't forget what happened. We must not forget that, forty-one years later, those responsible for the massacre of 3 March and for so many attacks on the freedoms of people remain unpunished. True, justice and attention. Truth: All historians agree with this in considering the unjust slaughter. Justice. Iaz Legebiltzarrak onartu zuen legez besteko proposesamenean hau zen bigarren scores: "Parliament notes the inaction of the Administration of Justice, and asks it to assume international human rights law and, consequently, to investigate those terrible facts, so that the criminal responsibilities that may arise are established". At this rate he could not go on: Gaster Three. The examining Court has filed the case for the murder and trial by the General Assembly of the Arabs. According to the court, murders in the 3rd of March cannot be regarded as crime against humanity, and they are registered. Rotation: "In the equality of the other victims, and without any neglect or rank," was agreed. Today, the victims of 3 March are considered victims of a cruel extrajudicial execution perpetrated, that is, by the police, but with a political decision behind them. And that is precisely why reparation will also be political. It was therefore agreed to urge the Basque Government, in accordance with its powers and powers, to continue to implement the rights of these victims in the terms set out above. The Spanish Government, for its part, was told to grant the victims of 3 March 1976 the recognition and reparation that denies them and is theirs. And to them, to that government we say that, in the same way that Lluis Llach sang forty years ago that "they will pursue our memories", today we also say that they will also pursue our actions, because we will not stop until truth, justice and reparation are a reality. And that's what we want to do with you, Mr. Urkullu, and that's why we want to know the rights of the victims of March 3rd: what has been done, what will be done. And, as you know, ready to join in that route and beg for reconnaissance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u34	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. My greeting, my confession, and my respect for the members of the 3th Society. 'Eunk AUBREY defends the rights of all the victims.' This is the third point which was admitted in the second legal proposal, and consequently also the victims of March 3rd. We show our judgment by means of actions, and in this particular case what we have done in answer to you, Madam, I beg you, Madam: On December 10, 2015, March Three Society rewarded René Cassin. On March 3rd, 2016, we took part in the homage of the mayor of Gastei, and you'll remember. The March was part of the offer of flowers which the 3rd Society organized from memory of the victims in Zamaga. On the 20th of February, the confession of the institutions was received by the abuse of power, or by the absence of police abuse, by the victims whose rights have been violated by human rights; this performance was organized in Sanostia, and invited both the victims and associations of March 3. On May 14th, to reflect on historical memory, and in the act of confessing the victims of fanaticism, the Marche took part in the 3th Society. During the wandering display of the Place of Memory, Eva Barros took part in the round table of the victims, his brother Romudo Barroso, who died in 1976. The 2ktimes in March 3 have had a remarkable presence in the documentary's lost feet. The information about what's done proves the criteria of fun. March 3 Society Projects have been protected and will receive the phone calls for fun and Remember High School funding. The attitude, will and commitment of the Basque Government to the recognition of the rights of the victims of 3 March has become evident and has been permanent. I reiterate what I have also said in Basque: that on 10 December 2015 the Association 3 of March received the highest recognition from our country on the International Day of Human Rights, the René Cassin Prize, on behalf of the platform of support for the Argentine lawsuit. On the other hand, it is connected with the publication of the last report made by the companies of taxation, which have more general regulations. This committee was founded in the circle of 107/20 Decree and announced itself in June 2016. The victims of March 3 have special treatment, as mentioned at the fourth point of the average proposal. Under the protection of this decree, the 47 cases of the victims who have been murdered and wounded have been presented, and the committee has acknowledged all of them as victims. In the case of 41 wounded people, the economic compensation that these wounded men received from the Fordinous Foru of the Araba has been completed in their own time. The other six were compensated for damages to the other people, within the scope of the law of Historical Memory 2007. Therefore, these victims have a regulatory recognition of their status with the report of the evaluation commission presented on 12 June last. The victims of 3 March have differential treatment in a specific section, as also stated in point 4 of the non-law proposal. The Basque Government continues to materialize the rights of these victims, and will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpation, Myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Pogula team, made to the president about 4 and 5th Bar of Bilbo." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. Good morning also to neighbours of Galdakao who have come to see this inquiry. Mr. Lehendakari, a week ago you presented your government program. At the centre of the latter was the need for a new status and the demand for new competences. In that program one of the sections was "more and better self-government". Of course, Mr Urkullu, we respect that you claim a new status, that you claim more competence, that you claim more self-government. But as representatives of the Basques in this Parliament we must ask for better self-government. Because not everything is, or not everything should at least be, asking for more and more competences, which is also not the case, because our self-government is the envy of Europe. The question lies in exercising that self-government well, in taking all the potential from it, in effectively exercising the powers that we do have at our disposal. And, of course, in the subject of complaint and regret your Government and you take very good notes, I would say outstanding. In the exercise of the powers which they do have, the score is quite low. And, Mr Urkullu, it is not that you have a commitment to ask him repeatedly about the same thing, but it is that, issues that perhaps for you and your Government are not transcendent, yet for citizens, citizens like those who are sitting up there, they are. They are transcendent for their way of life, for their communication, for their work, for their daily life. The reason for this is that there are important infrastructures in the campaign, or to be claimed when the government is of a different color than yours, but they are forgotten in a drawer when you are exercising that government. And I was telling him about the commitment because the last legislature I asked him about the same matter, and the reason was that if we bet on sustainability, on progress, on innovation, on the vertebration of the territory, if that is not just a slogan, if we really believe it, it is necessary to complement the railway infrastructures of the Bilbao metro, and specifically lines 4 and 5. He asked, then, whether there was a commitment to people, whether there was a commitment to sustainable transport and mobility. Because, Mr Urkullu, between the statements you make and the wording after those statements and your reflection on budgetary commitments there is a great distance. You have literally stated: "We are aware that good transport infrastructure is essential for the economic growth, the improvement of the quality of life and the territorial vertebration of Euskadi. They also contribute to progress in economic and urban development and improved mobility." But the truth is that the delay that some infrastructures carry in Euskadi is more than considerable. When it comes to claiming investments from other administrations, such as the central government, the voice is raised. It has hardly mattered that years ago there were budgetary difficulties, that we were in times of economic tightening; nevertheless, there were constant claims from his Government, from Euskadi, that works should be carried out, that we too share its importance, as the Basque Y can be. If they did not commit, it was said that there was no commitment to Euskadi. Well, it has come to be said that there was even more commitment to Galicia because the president was Galician. However, precisely what is good for the Spanish Government here seems not to be good. Here it is suggested to see how the collection is going to go, whether or not there is a budget available to undertake necessary infrastructures, promised and claimed for a long time. Thus, in these works their delay is more than considerable. We have not yet completed line 3, a line that has caused multiple inconveniences to the neighbors and losses to the traders; a line that should have been in the year 2012 already underway and that has been postponing, postponing and postponing, and it seems that in April it will finally be inaugurated, five years later. It was said in his day that when the works of line 3 were completed, the works of line 4 and of line 5 would begin. Moreover, to the neighbours of Galdakao himself the vice-counselor of Transports in May of the year 2015 transferred that same, that after finishing line 3 would have to speak with the deputy to continue with line 5, which was the suburban project that was most advanced in all its previous phases. For its part, the program of the 2012-2016 legislature reflected as one of the commitments the development of lines 4 and 5 of the metro. What was done in the previous legislature? Not much, or nothing. In this, in the election program with which you presented yourself to the elections, you have put it back on. Specifically in the section on transport and sustainable mobility, in initiative 12.4.6, they talk about the design and planning of metro lines 4 and 5. Also in the government agreement between the PNV and the Socialist Party it is said "to definitely end line 3 of the metro" (which is practically completed; to put that is to put nothing) "and to continue with the studies of line 4 and line 5". And I ask him: But weren't they already planned? Have they not been demanding and promising since 2011? Are more studies and planning still lacking? Wasn't all the previous studies perfectly done? Which ones are left to do? Line 4 would be a solution to the difficult communication of neighborhoods like Rekalde, but that line does not go beyond paper. Because it should be noted that, as soon as the legislature began, in connection with line 4 and confirmed by its own Government, there is only the award for the drafting of the constructive project in the first phase, stage Matiko-Moyua, but the work has not been tendered, there is no agreement between the deputy and the Basque Government, there is no funding or deadlines for implementation. In other words, it is not known, nor by approximation, the dates for the beginning and completion of the work. And the same goes for line 5. It has been pointed out that it is not a priority in this legislature, and that it is even necessary to revise the draft, with all this entailing further delays. Therefore, the start of the works is delayed until 2021, as little. For this reason, the neighbours of Galdakao will not see the metro, at best, until 2026, being very optimistic. Bizkaia's out-of-court deputy had already put it forward. He had said that during his term (i.e. until 2019) the works were not going to be done. You trusted him even later. It has been ratified by his Government, saying that until 2021 nothing at all. That is to say, what was demanded in 2011, when the Nationalist Party claimed that in the next budget, in 2012, there had to be already a game for the beginning of the works, ten years later the neighbors of Galdakao won't even see the first stone of something that was demanded with fruition for their party in 2011. It should not be forgotten that with regard to the Galdakao project, as early as 2003, documents such as the railway PTS called for action on Galdakao's mobility. Line 5 is true that it has gone through different vicissitudes and textures. First he had two stops, then Bengoetxe's, then Galdakao's hospital, later Usansolo, at the end Usansolo seems to be taken off... This last station, as I say, is discarded, although it would connect the entire area with the valley of Arratia. It should be completed, or so promised, in 2016. A year later, we don't even know when it's gonna start. You were talking and always talking about commitment to people. Well, as Rekalde's neighbours, 50,000 people, may be affected, and Galdakao's neighbours, 30,000 inhabitants, almost 30,000 inhabitants; but, more than that, 330,000 people who go every day to Galdakao's hospital are affected by this infrastructure. And you talk a lot about listening to the voice of Basque citizenship, letting Basque citizenship speak. Well, I'll tell you, Galdakao's neighbors have spoken, have collected 40,000 signatures to start the work already, have manifested themselves on numerous occasions. Are these claims going to be dealt with? Are you going to see once and for all a commitment from your Government that these so often promised infrastructures, which appear in all the electoral campaigns, will move from paper to floor, to work, and will be able to see some light of when they will be able to have an indispensable means of transport, as I say to you, for their daily lives, for their work, and for them to finally see fulfilled a claim so many times promised and so many times delayed?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u38	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, the Lobby Boy, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u39	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs. Llanos, when we speak about the 4-foot lines, we must consider that they are not islands, but that we must make the whole planning of the transport, and that in this sense we ought to develop and develop, considering two things. On the one hand, what a request there is. And, on the other hand, what we have said in many cases is the patience of the public transport, and of course that public transport may be based on the railway. It can be the subway, the nearest services, or even the tram and high-speed train, depending on our request and the place we're in. Therefore, in order to make this plan possible, it is agreed that we shall send a law to this legislature. And in the Euscadian Transport Authority, on the one hand, a plan will be admitted which considers the patience of the public transports, and in this sense the planning of transport will be made. But when we talk about a transport system, we have to talk about an integrated and integrated transport system. Neither lines 4 and 5 nor any other, nor the tramway that can close the ring, nor the enlargements on Gasteiz are islands; they are part of a complete system, or must do so. We must consider all modes of transport to seek efficiency, to give the best possible service, to avoid duplication (which is also important to do so), to seek the improvement of service to citizens. That is, people who are going to use it every day perceive it as the best service, regardless of how it is used. That it is based on an intelligent service, of course, on an intelligent system; that it considers the tariff integration where it is defined which model we are going to have, what pricing, which payment system is going to be used; that the new transport needs are established on the basis of that demand analysis, what is the way that responds to those needs, what services are going to be provided, and what is the most appropriate infrastructure. That's exercising self-government well, that's planning well and deciding how we're going to do it. In addition, the last meeting of the Euskadi Transport Authority approved the establishment of the Bizkaia Mobility Authority. What a better first experience, for that Bizkaia Mobility Authority, than to analyze how the transport as a whole is found in the territory, according to all the municipalities and the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, and to analyze what are the needs for the future and how and which transport system best responds to the needs of citizens! Because we're talking about that, not a tram or a subway. These are the means we use to do good service. And we have to consider something that was done with the tram here in Vitoria, and I want to set an example, because when that system was implemented, an analysis was made of the mobility of the entire capital, and Tuvisa carried out an improvement of its services and an analysis that today allows to have a better transport system. That is the way we have to do things and that we must have in the future; therefore, that is where we must work, because not all modes of transport always serve. We have to do a bit of a fine analysis, also knowing the situation in which we are living, not only economic: we have to analyse all CO emissions as well. 2 that we are launching into the atmosphere, and many other environmental aspects that are not minor. Beyond all this, how are the subway lines right now? And before moving on to lines 4 and 5 I do want to point out to you – and you know it perfectly well, but I want to remind you – the budgetary commitment of the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, at 50% in each of the actions on the Bilbao metro. It was launched on line 1, which has cost EUR 614 million; line 2, which has cost EUR 858 million. And it has also been done through indebtedness, which a few years ago was much more possible than at the moment. The current debt still lives today in the Bizkaia Transport Consortium (on 31 December 2015 I am talking to you; therefore, we are close, although we will have reduced something) are 452 million euros. We have to continue paying that credit, that debt, no less than until 2027, according to the consortium's plan. But we have also launched line 3, which, as you say, will be operational in April. This construction, to be completed, is 279 million euros, not counting the Artxanda tunnel, which is another 36 million euros. But it is not enough to do the infrastructure, as you well know, but I remind you: a number of trains must be put on top of the railway infrastructure, which also require important investments. The associated operating deficit must also be considered, because it is that public transport, as you well know, also requires important investments throughout your life, because you really don't subscribe to what users pay for their use. As you well say, lines 4 and 5 are in the government program. What's your situation today? Line 4 is in the following form. In 2009, the basic study was drafted, and in 2012 the informational study. At the end of 2016 began the drafting of the constructive project of the Matiko-Moyua section, with a drafting deadline until 2018, but it is strictly necessary before we start doing any kind of work. Then not before 2018 we will also know what the economic amount that line is going to have, because the drafting of the constructive project requires that time. At this time we would also have to continue later from Matiko to Rekalde, we would have to carry out that study. And under no circumstances have we valued mobile material yet. In the case of line 5, the construction project, referring to the civil work, is completed. Currently the project of installations (i.e., catenary, signage, communications, escalators, elevators...) is being drafted, all that is required, in addition to the construction project of civil works. But, in addition to all this, once this part of the constructive project has been completed, as you said, all the projects have been completed, we have to sit down and see with the Bizkaia Foreign Office, which pays 50%, what are the budgetary needs, what are the possibilities to deal with them, and how we are going to do it, what is the joint budgetary effort we have to do right now. And to see if really, from that Bizkaia Mobility Authority, the infrastructure that has been planned is the best, and how it affects the existing services and how we have to modify it, according to, as I said, with the example for example of Vitoria-Gasteiz. The effort in public transport, particularly on the Bilbao metro, is and has been very important, and will continue to be. But, as I also said, mobility as a whole needs to be analysed, we need to be realistic and to know what budget allocation we have for all the administrations, not just the Basque Government. And, above all, what we have to focus on is doing a good service. Not in what way we give it, but in doing good service and in responding to those needs of all people (you told me, for example, about those who go to Galdakao hospital), what is the best service that can be offered to them. And that's what we have to focus on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u41	Thank you again, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Tapia, for the explanations. The truth is, I already knew you were going to give it to me. Although I had asked the lehendakari, I knew perfectly well that, as in this matter little breast can pull out his Government, as his intervention was not to be of a publicity tint, which he usually likes, because, obviously, he was not going to answer. Because you're talking to me now... The truth is that his answer is disappointing and worrying, because now we are told to see if the subway is the best transport (the best transport!), when for years we have all shared that one of the most sustainable, ecological means of transport, and of course that best fit with environmental care, is the metro. And I have to tell you that, regardless of whether it's true that there were fewer travellers last year, yet all subway users are perfectly satisfied with that service. But I also have to tell you that line 4, which goes from Matiko to Rekalde, as well as the media to Galdakao, leave much to be desired. Those who exist at this time leave much to be desired. The arrival of the metro is something that has been promised on many occasions. It was promised for now, for the next legislature: "If we govern, there will be metro in the next legislature." And we don't even know when it's gonna be anymore. We don't even know when there's gonna be. Galdakao's neighbors have seen how they got off a shuttle; how they first went to Etxebarri, now they're going to Bolueta, and they're taking the shuttle, because connecting with the subway is their best means of transport. Then what better proof than that the subway is the best means of transport for Galdakao's neighbors, who take the shuttle and then join the subway! And you now tell us that we need to see the planning, what the Mobility Authority says, and also see the economic and budgetary availability. Well, it's just that all that... Well, this is new, planning and Mobility Authority is new. It's new, because it's better than saying... It is true that we are in economic straits, it is true that many works have to be done against debt, but it is also true that neither line 4 nor line 5 are a priority for this Government. Sure, that's hard to say, isn't it? Getting out here and saying that line 4 and line 5 are not a priority. The neighbours of Rekalde, Matiko and Galdakao are not a priority for this Government. They are not, because all the issues that you have told me about planning could have been done before, and because certain issues that you have set out as follows can be done in parallel. It is a question of political will, and it is a question of political and economic commitment. And you don't have either. They don't have either. You will now be able to talk to me about planning, about the Authority of Mobility, that we need to rethink, to see if the metro is sustainable, to see if the Galdakao neighbors really like the metro... I think they'll like something, because they've collected 40,000 signatures and are continually demonstrating to have a subway. I say you'll consider it the best service! I was talking to them about the difference, what's good when we talk to the Spanish government, and instead what we talk about here. Because you presented at the Congress of Deputies..., they urged the government that within a period of not more than three months they had to plan all the outstanding works of the Basque Y, and this despite the fact that at the same time they were demanding that the projects should be modified, because two arrivals that were not previously buried would be buried. But within three months the planning of the outstanding works had to be presented, and a detailed schedule of the deadlines, access, remodeling and new stations had to be presented. In three months! And you don't commit to doing it either in this legislature, because first you have to see the plan, you have to talk to the Mobility Authority, and then already, if anything, we'll see if we can make some deadlines! You know why they don't want to? Because they have neither political will, nor political commitment, nor economic commitment. And, of course, putting some deadlines here means that then the others will be able to claim them, and we will see how those deadlines are not met. Anyway, we will present an initiative in this legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u42	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u43	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Llanos, first of all, what I'm going to ask you is a little bit of respect when you come up to this rostrum, when you talk about publishing and that I go up because the lehendakari is not going to do it. A little respect. From there, do not confuse the best service with an infrastructure, because you are making a tendentious, absolutely tendentious speech. Because what you're not taking into account is that the best service at a given time can be a subway, it can be a tram, it can be a high-speed train... It confuses the service with infrastructure. Tell me what is the best service, and we'll see what is the best infrastructure. Don't change things. When we talk about planning, obviously. And we have to do it not with something that we have invented, which is the Authority of the Mobility of Bizkaia, but with something that is put in place precisely for this reason, precisely because there is a need, because the situation needs to be improved. Because we are doubling, because on many occasions that reduction of the passengers on the metro is because we have services on buses, or on other railway services, that somehow we are making competition, because the users are the same, and they are shared in one and the other infrastructure. Then we will improve the service so that this user has more frequency, better service, better price, and a fully integrated and integrated system. You don't want to see him? You yourself! But, of course, it is a way of working in which we firmly believe and believe that we must continue. You tell me that people living in Galdakao like the subway. Sure, me too! I live in Zumaia, and I'm sure if I do the survey they'll tell me that they love the nine thousand peak inhabitants living in Zumaia. But it's not a matter of taste. Besides asking if we like it (I also like it), you have to ask what services I require, what I want to do, where I want to get to, how often... That's what we really have to answer. And, of course, stop demagogying in that sense. We all like it. And not only is the subway sustainable. It is sustainable, I said, a system based on a railway system. And the railroad has plenty of possibilities. Therefore, we will try to do things in the best possible way, planned together in this case with the Bizkaia Foreign Office, as I have told you. And, of course, when we talk about planning, I think I have given you the dates on which it is planned not when we are going to start, but where are the studies, what is the planning of each of them, and where we are. And from there, of course, the budgetary issue will have to be considered. And let's not say that obviously we also have to go into debt. Well, you know the restrictions we have on indebtedness, which didn't exist a few years ago. So we're going to be a little consistent, too, and in that quest for realism we're going to tell the truth. But integral, not just the one we're interested in at a time. We remain, of course, committed to these infrastructures and to all the railways, which will be the backbone of public transport in this country, with all the institutions working together (with the municipalities, with the deputies and with the transport authorities). That's going to be the way to work, and I think it's also the way that exists around the world and that we can't get away from. And from the needs and from an analysis of needs must come out what infrastructures we have to develop (if they are roads, if they are railways...), under what conditions, under what deadlines, and who pays them. That is a way of working, of being efficient, of being realistic and of managing self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition, Eukene Aranas Varas, together with the President, a law of machiist violence on the part of the social assets." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u45	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. The lawmaster, the guests, the congressmen. I would like to begin by recalling also some facts that led to a serious violation of human rights by the State Security Forces, which a true rule of law must clarify by offering truth, justice and reparation to victims who are still waiting forty-one years later. Citizenship doesn't forget. We don't forget. Mr Urkullu, on Thursday 23 February Parliament agreed to include in the legislative timetable the drafting of the law for the eradication of violence against women, with a commitment to prioritise the processing before its referral to the Basque Parliament. On Tuesday 28 the Governing Council approved the legislative programme of the XI Legislature, a working paper that will guide the legislative action of the Basque Government over the next four years. Among the twenty-eight proposed bills, the text includes the proposed law for the eradication of violence against women. The parliamentary agreement noted that Emakunde will activate a participatory process (article 5.0 of Law 4/2005), where the active participation of experts from different sectors, women's associations and the feminist movement, among others, will be encouraged. That is why Emakunde was asked to allow a special item, and to put in place mechanisms of control and dialogue between Parliament and Emakunde. From Elkarrekin We can in the same plenary advance our position on the agreement. We reiterate: we very much appreciate the agreement reached by the whole House, and we also welcome the synergy between Parliament and the Governing Council. We have been able to place the necessary revision of the regulatory framework for the prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation of sexist violence, which is a violation of daily rights suffered by half of the population. In addition to concluding the agreement, we were also able to express our great concern about three aspects. One, the conceptual framework, approach or paradigms with which the process will be carried out. It's not a minor detail. It is not the same to legislate on sexist violence, on care for victims, on domestic abuse and sexual violence, as reflected in some articles of Law 4/2005 on Equality of Women and Men, on gender-based violence in the domestic sphere, etc., etc. Nor is it a minor detail to speak of the integral law and that this integrality is expressed in three dimensions. One, in understanding the phenomenon. From our point of view, the category of Machist violence is the one that guarantees, or at least closer to an integral view of the phenomenon. We have the challenge of moving forward in the cohesion of a regulation that could be fragmented or insufficient at present. Two, also in the measures and policies that are established, which in our view should include prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation. Integrality is necessarily guaranteed with the political commitment and clear and adequate resources, of each and every autonomous department and agency that makes up the Basque Government, and of all levels of administration in the corresponding competences. The other two areas of concern that we noted in that plenary were how and with whom the bill will be drafted. We recall and repeat a fragment of the fourth point of the compromise amendment that was signed in this Parliament: "Emakunde will activate a participatory process (article 5.0 of Law 4/2005), where the active participation of experts from different sectors, women's associations and the feminist movement, among others, will be promoted". For this reason, Emakunde was asked to enable a special match. On the special item, on Tuesday 28 we had the opportunity to expand information on the budget of Emakunde first hand through the head of the agency, Mrs Izaskun Landaida Larizgoitia, in the framework of the appearance of the Department of Lehendakaritza in the Committee on Finance and Budgets. In summary, we understand that there is no specific specific item enabled for this process. Therefore, our concern about how and with whom the draft will be drafted is heightened, because we know that the processes for the elaboration of the draft law in a participatory manner are highly demanding, specialized, require time and the accompaniment of professionals who can translate, into a norm that does not conflict with the national and autonomous regulatory framework, the proposals of the different actors and agents of the public administration, the feminist movement, trade unions, parties, etc., that from their fields of action have much to contribute. Resources are needed in addition to political will. The director of the Basque Institute for Women on Tuesday also shared information on the work space: follow-up committee and the II Interinstitutional Agreement for the Improvement of the Care of Women Victims of Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence. We recognize and greatly appreciate the work of the committee and the interinstitutional agreement; however, we express and reiterate our doubts about the adequacy of that space to be a platform for a process of drafting a law, because, as its own name indicates, it is created and designed to follow up, not to draft a law. It can update the interinstitutional agreements, but we do not think that this is the appropriate space to develop the regulatory framework within which the agreements are developed. The same Tuesday also mentioned the processes that are being developed and that are intended to be carried out in this 2017 and that, according to Mrs Landaida, will be the framework for the elaboration of the draft law, such as the annual monitoring and evaluation report on the level of compliance of the contents of the II Inter-institutional Agreement for the improvement of care, the consolidation of the system of collection of information on homogeneous violence for all areas, and the evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of programmes and services aimed at victims of violence against women. Promote programmes for preventive intervention and attention to new forms of manifestations of violence against women (trafficking, etc.). [[Abro un parentesis paramatare: no son nuveas formas de violencia; there existo hystaricamente, lo que es stateizadas, invisizadas o justifas.]] He also spoke about the UN programme on international standards of quality in essential services in the field of violence, contrast and implementation. In the compromise amendment adopted on 23 February, these efforts were somewhat reflected in the third point, which agreed to analyse the results of the continuous evaluation, in addition to those resulting from the contrast of international standards. We are confident that these and other processes that Emakunde has been promoting in relation to violence can nurture the debate and exchange that takes place in the process of formulating a new law. They will be very valuable inputs in a work that can be broad, complex and critical. And really, we ask, do you consider that the drafting of a law can be reduced to the evaluation reports of care services? These are some of our doubts and concerns, which led us to present this inquiry, in the spirit of helping to rethink how and with whom we will be carrying out a process that has to lead us to an appropriate regulatory framework to prevent and eradicate violence against half the population. Mr Urkullu, what will be the participatory process (budget, deadlines, methodology, workspace and decision-making) that Emakunde will implement to ensure active and real participation of the feminist movement, associations of women and qualified people from different sectors during the process of formulating the law on sexist violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, first of all, you will allow me a brief introduction in relation to the preliminary draft law. International human rights law, as well as the Council of Europe Istanbul Convention, urge public authorities to legislate on violence against women and to do so by reaffirming the link between gender inequality and violence against women. In fact, it recognizes that the realization of de facto equality between women and men is a key element in the prevention of violence against women, and that violence against women is a manifestation of the historical imbalance between women and men, which has led to the domination and discrimination of women by men, thus depriving women of their full emancipation. Euskadi was a pioneer in this approach, since we have Law 4/2005 of 18 February for the Equality of Women and Men, which in Title III, on measures to promote equality, devotes a specific chapter, Chapter VII, to regulating measures both for research, prevention and training and for the care and protection of victims, thus reaffirming the link between discrimination against women and violence against them. In Euskadi we have articulated the response to violence against women through basically the implementation of this chapter, Chapter VII, and other rules derived from state legislation in this area, all in coordination with all the institutions and actors involved through the interinstitutional agreement that you mentioned, to improve care for victims. Having said that, it should be noted that in our priority objective, to eradicate violence against women, we must adapt to the international and European legal frameworks and instruments on human rights, mainly the Istanbul Convention; to the new laws on the protection of children and adolescents; and to the Act on the Status of Victims. And all this in order to strengthen and complement the prevention and response we are offering to violence against women. Having said that, secondly, and in relation to the participatory process by which you ask, I would like to stress that this is a commitment and a way of making permanent the Basque institutions involved, coordinated by Emakunde. The example is the June meeting last year, in June 2016, of the closing of the last parliamentary term, of the follow-up committee of the II Interinstitutional Agreement for the improvement of the care of women victims of violence. This meeting was attended by all the departments involved in the Basque Government, the outlaws, the municipalities, the Office of the Prosecutor, the judiciary, the Basque Medical Council, the Basque Council of Lawyers and the Ararteko. It took the decision to draw up and present a third interinstitutional agreement during the current parliamentary term, in order to bring us into line with legislative changes and new needs. We therefore have extensive experience of participatory work, mainly based on the establishment of specific working groups within the existing coordinating committees. However, specific working groups have recently been set up and a number of collaborative processes have been developed focusing on the response to children, children and children who are victims of violence against women, and on improving the response to women victims with functional diversity, with people with different professional profiles and professionals from social organizations and associations. On the basis of this accredited trajectory, and with the experience of Emakunde, it is assured, in my view, that a path of active and real participation of institutions, associations and qualified persons from different sectors will be opened up, with a view to advancing the process of formulating the law to eradicate violence against women. And in this regard, and in relation to the participatory process, we will have people who are experts in gender and equality who, from an academic and legal perspective, can advise on how best to regulate violence against women from a comprehensive, comprehensive approach and in line with international treaties and conventions. We will also have public institutions competent in the prevention and care of violence against women, which from their area of competence can guide the lines of action and the potential of the already existing portfolio of services and resources. We will also have professionals involved in the prevention, detection and care of violence against women, who from their commitment and professional practice can identify areas of improvement of intervention services that would need to be addressed through regulation. We will also have, yes, social actors, entities, associations working with victims of violence, who from personal and collective experience can demonstrate the existing needs of victims facing violence. And in this participatory process we will also have, Mrs Arana, associations of women and feminists, who, from their knowledge and representativeness, can bring forward the social demands of citizens in the area of violence. This objective is reflected, as you have said, in the government programme, in the legislative timetable, and also in the budget proposal. Thus, we have programmes designed, with their corresponding budget lines, for the development and monitoring of the services information system in the field of violence; the analysis of data on violence against women; the contrast of international quality standards in essential services in the field of violence against women, defined by various agencies and by UN agencies; and in the evaluation of the scope and quality of services in the field of violence. Therefore, all of these budget items on these concepts will be those that complement what may be the so-called specific item for the preparation of the preliminary draft law. The Director of Emakunde herself will give a specific account of the participatory process that she has already requested before this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u49	Mr. Urkullu, at the last meeting of the commission to which you referred, that there were government departments, prosecutors, deputies, Ararteko... How many women were there at that meeting? Where were the social workers who care for women victims of gender-based violence? Where were the health workers who care for these women? Where were the feminists? Where were the women? I'm asking. We do not doubt that progress has been made on equality and on sexist violence, but we believe that this is not enough. It's not, and besides, as with everything that affects women, as with everything that affects us, we're late. These days we have heard Mr Urkullu say that Euskadi has been identified as the main challenge for achieving fourth place on the European Gender Equality Index. We have heard him say that equality is essential for sustainable development. In his statement of good intentions he said he wanted to narrow the wage gap (I don't doubt it) between men and women. I find it unbelievable, when there are still autonomous departments and agencies that do not have today an administrative unit of equality, composed of a technical person in..., complying with Decree 213/2007 of 27 November, such as the VATP, HABE and the Police Academy of the Basque Country. Do you think this is serious? We have heard him say that the most advanced countries in the field of equality are also the most economically advanced countries. I would tell you that the most advanced countries in the field of equality are those that have good social, political and economic support to achieve it, and for this, for example, they have a network of haurreskolas with affordable prices for all families. They are those who provide financial benefits for the birth of sons and daughters. They are those who promote flexible workdays and birth permits for children, which enable the sharing of care and tasks. You know what? It is said that one of the keys to Sweden's success, for example, as far as equality is concerned, was the direct influence on the policy of feminist demands. We also hear you, Mr Lehendakari, and we are happy about that, that you are talking about macho violence, even if you call it gender violence, and that you are committed to providing a comprehensive response to the victims of violence. What has its own causes, also has its own solutions. That's why we move forward as a society when we have laws to differentiate and distinguish the problem from macho violence, because if we don't understand it, we won't be able to identify it, define it, prevent it, and ultimately end it. Our laws have many flaws that we must evaluate and correct with concrete proposals, proposals that are the result of the experience of civil society, experts, the judiciary, education, health care and, of course, women. That is why we demand that this future law should include all sexist violence, which is practised in the sphere of the couple and which is not. Because sexual assaults or rape killings are sexist violence, it is committed by couples, ex-partners, acquaintances or strangers. These are forms of violence: physical violence, psychological or emotional violence, sexual violence, violence by prejudice towards sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, economic violence, property, symbolic, obstetric, labour violence, violence in education, street sexual harassment, political violence, media violence, female violence. And the forms of violence, depending on the scope, are domestic violence, community violence and institutional violence. All this is fine if we listen to society and understand it. Put yourself to it, please, because we're late. Always on the subject of women we go late, centuries late And I also recommend, Mr Lehendakari, that you listen, but not just listen to a part of society, which is very well. It would be good for me to listen to the whole of society when it comes to making this law of machist violence, because machist violence is the consequence of the inequality that we women suffer for centuries. They've been deaf for a long time, and sometimes they still are. We are concerned that we continue to talk about the law to eradicate violence against women, when it has been discussed for a long time that the approach must be put into harassing, violating, killing, and therefore we believe that it is important that it be participatory, so that it listens to society. I am also concerned that they talk about the social scourge when they talk about violence against women. Machist violence has its roots in the heteropatriarchal structure itself, part of an ideology in which the social order materializes through a heteropatriarchal system. It's on its ideological structural base. And that sexist violence has a structural character means that these acts are not due to specific and pathological singular features of individuals. For all this we are concerned about how the participatory process will be, budgets, deadlines, methodology... Indeed, it is important to have the debate in Parliament. It is important that we create a parallel committee where we can discuss terminology, because terminology invisibles us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, the truth is that in the second intervention, rather than talking about the participatory process by which I was being questioned, you gave me the feeling that you were doing the thesis on macho violence. And, in any case, it has served little of what I have responded to in the first intervention on what is the participation of the collectives or associations in the process of the preliminary draft law. You have spoken to me in the second speech concerning the committee, and I can tell you that I have been present on all the governing councils of Emakunde that have been held in the last legislature, on all the governing councils, and I have not been in how many women there were or how many men there were on the governing council of Emakunde, but on what was the content of what was at stake and what was what was being defended, Mrs Arana. You mention the legislation. Man, I think we are also subject to the limitations of the current Penal Code! In any case, beyond what may be the theses on sexist violence, you also referred to the purposes of this Government in wanting to be one of the most advanced countries. No, we are. Euskadi is already one of the most advanced countries on gender equality. What we aspire to is to advance one more position in that very complicated position, which is the international arena. In any case, transparency and participation is the general rule in this Government and also in Emakunde, and it is part of our way of governing. I quote a work line recently launched for participation in the definition and evaluation of international service quality standards for the care of women victims of violence, within the framework of a joint global programme led by UN-Women and UNFPA. This program was presented publicly on October 27, 2016. Emakunde was invited to participate in the project as an expert in defining such standards. Subsequently, considering the opportunities offered by the programme, it was decided to participate in it both as a donor and as a participant, carrying out a process for the self-assessment of quality in our own care system, in order to identify areas of improvement. In order to carry out this self-assessment, Mrs Arana, different multidisciplinary working groups have already been formed with professionals with a different profile from different fields, with the participation of equality techniques and women's associations, Mrs Arana. The various departments of the Basque Government and the other institutions involved are also participating in this process, combining health visions, justice or security visions, social services, coordination and governance visions. And in parallel with these processes of work already initiated within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement, regardless of whether they are men or women, we are designing other consultation and participation actions whose definition is being finalized, in order to seek the contributions of other experts from the legal, university or feminist associative movement, among others. And for its design we have extensive experience in consultation and participation processes, among which we can mention the one carried out recently for the elaboration of the evaluation of the Basque Law for Equality, or other previous ones, such as the elaboration of the sixth plan for equality or the elaboration in its day of the Basque Law for the Equality of Women and Men. Look, Mrs Arana, as I have said, this objective is in the government programme, in the legislative timetable, in the legislative programme and in the budget proposal. Also with specific programs designed for this purpose. And, I repeat, we have experience in implementing a participatory and specific process involving men and women, and our commitment is to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Congressman of the World of Maddalen Acts made to the president by the Congress of the EH Collectors, a pact which he wishes for the year 20th of his 20th Spanish State."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. congressman. Good morning, everyone. This question has only a limited time, but I wouldn't want to do it on March 3nd, and in Gasthe's name, to let those who didn't mention the slaughter that had happened 41 years ago and gave life for freedom without making a small homage. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. In the program that has just been introduced to us by EukMU, you said that before the law is over, your government wants to get an agreement with the Spanish state about a new political state. And, indeed, there are some questions which, in the history you have made, are added to the fact that you have placed the treaty with the state before asking the people, at least in the first report. In any case, my question today is: and can you assert that the only boundary which will be established in this process will be a democratic decision of the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning, yes, Madam Irarte. In answer to your question, yes, what we have shown in our program of government, based on four columns, is bound to whoever shall be agreed upon by this legislature. So what this legislature decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u57	You always answer me like that, Mr. Urkullu. You say it will always be what this legislature decides. And even if this is grateful and intelligible, when you tell us the story, you put some things before you and others behind you. I look at the program that Jeltsky Party presented for this election, and, for example, it is mentioned that there will be a dispassionate consultation, and now I don't know whether there will be any such thing as this or not. This year, March 19th and May 7th, many of the men in this country want to show that they want to decide, and I think that's not a small thing. There is another question which I have not yet fully understood, and which you repeat over and over again, and which you repeat to us believing, and which is the two-sided agreement and agreement you wish to obtain with the state. We find it hard to understand, because every one else, looking at the Basque Country and even at the Catalonia, says the opposite, and does not give us a certain path to believe that this might happen. You change my face a little and maybe you can explain how you see it. XXI. It seems to me that XXI. that we cannot surrender the peoples in the provinces, especially if we are determined on their future condition; that their democratic decision must be established above all other things. And at least at this moment I can't see the facility of making the way you often speak of. You know, at any rate, that in that power, and even outside, the people will have all the efforts of this people to make it truly a new jurist of the States, and in that democratic principle, which decides to be founded, and decides the majority of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start by telling you what I've done. 80 years ago, this town did this: He decided to set up a Basque organization. About 40 years ago, this town did this: To resolve to form this law for the first time, and give it up to the organization we now know. Almost 30 years ago, this congressman decided for self-determination. 10 years ago, this legislature made a decision on a new political state. Three months ago, when you're going to make fun of it, for the first time, two parties agreed to discuss the rights of deciding in the new self-organization team that's completed today. And I think that in the duty of these 25 years, I have also had my share in such decisions. So this is our course, always defending the rights and the decisions that belong to this people. Take 25 or 30 years back beside you and ask me what they did or what they decided about some of the things you were talking about in those critical moments. However, I am inclined to look into the future, and this historical moment it is plain what we know: To obtain in this legislature a strong compact between the several, to make a legal and future decision with that force. This is, and it's always been my choice and my choice. Conditioning? The terms must be submitted to the self-egobernual group, defended, discussed, and agreed, Mrs. Iriart. I will not make a necessary condition, because I make the choice for the agreement between the several. At this moment, I'm on the side of taking advantage of the opportunity we've never had, namely, the agreement with the intervention of five parties in order to update and deepise the auto-engine. It's up to us, here and now, to take advantage of that opportunity. Look at the last century in our history and you'll realize we've never had a chance like this. I know it's difficult, but this week we've made one of those five parties in the Provost or Concert. That's the indicator of the force of our self-portrait and that, too, the pattern that shows us the way of agreement at this moment. Mrs Iriarte, before we talk about Madrid, in relation to what Madrid can do, let's talk about Gasteiz. You always try to rule out that the debate is first in Euskadi; you try to escape the great responsibility, which is first agreed here. In that debate they don't seem comfortable, perhaps because agreeing means discussing, approaching positions, compromise, compromise, compromise, compromise, comply... Look, if you're going to come every 15 days trying to put me on a stand before issues that need to be discussed in the Self-Government Paper, know that, as a member of the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group that I am, I will refer you as often as necessary to that responsibility of discussing, approaching positions, ceding, compromise and agreeing where it belongs, within the paper. We have a new opportunity: to decide on the new legal, political and institutional framework agreed among the most possible majority of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "Appeal, Leire Pinedo Bustamane EH Collectors to the Chief of Eplegus and Polic Society, to fill and value the low pensions of the EAE." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u61	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. This time, we place the subject of worthy pensions on the table once more, because pensions are an important matter in order to build a more balanced and more fair society, because pensions are a fundamental instrument to guarantee the dignity of their masters. In the course of today, the interpenetration was directed to the Chief of St. José's department, as we questioned him a couple of weeks ago about the competency of the pension system. But because it is a division of labour and employment and society, and of social society, it seems to be the subject of a series of means of competency in the docking system, and, on the other hand, to form and value the pensions which this system pays. And today, instead of the head of St. José, the chief physician will answer us. In this way it is more and more apparent that the reason for this division of things is different from efficiency. But we will stay with us and proclaim the way to the pensioners' dignity. We have said more than once before the principal problems of our society (Difference, social rupture, an unjust division of wealth) that public policies must be strong, and that the other system of protection must provide for a whole and compact system of subsistence. And for this we have insisted on the consideration of the public revenues, such as the importance of the policy of taxation, which will be the source of securing the fundamental resources of public policies. And within these powerful public policies, social security and public pension system are indispensable elements, they are fundamental elements. We all know our reality of today. A state-controlled pension system, a drowned Social Security system. That's the reality of today. The system of Spain not only supports the dignity of all pensioners, but it has not, at present, supported by the constancy of its own nature. This is not because we say: A number of statesmen have long since remarked the instability of the system. And it is plain that the uneasiness is there, as the occurrences which are being contained in the Pact of Toledo are evident. And we are listening to all things in order to do this system lasting or to do: delaying her pension, proclaiming less and less pensions... Everything. After all, we're listening to the precautions that separate dignity from it. Because today the situation of pensions is well known. At the state level, almost 5 million pensioners receive a pension below the inter-professional minimum wage, i.e. 51% of State pensioners receive less than 707 euros of pension, and 7 out of 10 are women. And they'll say, "Yeah, but in the Basque Autonomous Community the average pension is higher." Yes, it is true, but still there are more than 192,000 pensioners (i.e. 35.67% of the total) who receive a pension below the inter-branch minimum wage. We cannot forget that as a result of the economic crisis these pensions are often the livelihood not only of the pensioner, but of the children, or of the full families. And this worries us. We're worried, and we're very worried. We have already made it clear in this Parliament that Euskal Herria Bildu's priority is the way to a pension system of our own as part of a system of social protection that makes life and decent pensions possible, and on the way we have made it clear that sooner rather than later we must have competence over the economic management of social security without cuts, without brushing on what is stipulated in the Gernika Statute itself. Two weeks ago my colleague Eva Blanco asked the San José councilwoman about it, and she came to tell us that soft little thing, that she chooses to improve the current system, to support it. Those were his words. And I remind you that this current system is the Spanish system, and this system makes water. Regarding the dignity of pensions, he replied: "Our priority is that all Basque citizens receive decent pensions that will enable them to meet their vital needs. That's our goal. And in this sense we preach with the example, and that is why we have established a system through income guarantee income to supplement pensions when they do not reach to ensure a dignified life." And we can agree with this. We also want citizens to be worthy pensions, but, alas, there are too many people who are miserable to collect pensions. Many of those who are now in poverty are pensioners, that's the reality of our present danger. It is true, DBE today-gaurz is a useful tool on the way to value the non-deservative pensions which are due to the state pension system. Because that's just the tool to fill up the holes in a pension system that doesn't seem to be given. But still he doesn't reach all the pensioners. As a matter of fact, around 16,000 pensioners charge their pensions, EAE, and consequently the 176.700 pensioners don't pay any supplies, even though their pension was smaller than their minimum pay. This brings us two thoughts: the conditions of completion are very severe, or even those who are potentially benefited do not know their rights. But it's the only conclusion. The effort to complete the low pensions, the effort to applaud, does not fulfil its purpose at all, and it is necessary to change it. We have to take measures here, and this government has the responsibility. The dignity of pensioners and future pensioners to-day ought to be taken in proportion to the remuneration of dignity. Not only the present measures, not the deficiencies of the State system in some measure, but the measures which are reserved for answer to the affairs of today and tomorrow. Of course we can argue about dignity. 710 euros is something, we know, but our goal is to follow the path marked by the Social Letter of Europe, namely 60% of average pay. We have heard of this request, but it is not our idea, it is the letter signed by the European States. We have proclaimed it more than once in this parliament, and it has been so done by pensioners. The Pentisms introduced the legislative of the people here, but here, as is well known, you refused their proposal. We, the Basque People, were the only ones who were willing to lead us. Then, following this suggestion of the pensioners, we proposed our proposal in a negative manner. In this legislature, therefore, you have refused the last proposals which you made on the way to improve our fellow-citizens' pensions, and to deserve them. Therefore our interpenetration to-day, because, in the course of a more just society, the subject of worthy pensions is essential, because the present situation is to be resisted, and, alas, if we continue to be a part of the Spanish system, the state will not seem to improve. So, chief physician, we're waiting for your words to know the size of the ten thousand pensioners from EAE to form and value the low pensions they collect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mrs. Artolallun has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u63	Head of the legislative table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs Pinedo, I cannot agree more with what you have just proposed, in the sense of how you justify your inquiry, when you say: "For the purpose of building an advanced and just society, a powerful, coherent, balanced, integral and well-endowed system of protection is of extraordinary importance". That statement I make mine, of course. Above all, we mean that the pension system is a fundamental pillar of this protection system, and we share that too. And that we must give people dignity through public policies as well. We then share the principle that human beings deserve special and dignified treatment, which enables their development as people. In this sense, man is an end in himself, not a means for the uses of other individuals, which would make him a thing. Sharing the fundamentals, I believe that the question should be raised from the recognition that the Basque Government has been making a great effort to supplement the lower pensions through the GIR. Currently, of the 63,983 cohabitation units benefiting from GIR, 15,983 are pensioners, 23.5 %. Almost EUR 43 million were allocated to this group last year, and nearly EUR 600,000 are paid monthly to the co-habitation units. The GIR modality called "basic income for social inclusion and protection" is a benefit for persons who do not have income from employment income and whose monthly level of income does not reach the amount of basic income for social inclusion and protection, and is insufficient to meet both associated costs and basic needs, as well as a process of social and labour inclusion. We must be conscious and consistent with the data we have provided. The benefits of our income guarantee system are the ones that most directly focus on the population at greatest risk: 96.6% of GIR expenditure, supplementary housing benefit and social emergency aid reach this group. A large percentage of State pension expenditure (83.2%) and State expenditure on unemployment and other social policies (63.4%) are targeted at groups in a well-being situation, without any associated risk. It is precisely the limits of the general system of State protection that give social meaning to the Euskadi income guarantee system. This contributes 41.7% of the income of the population facing situations of real poverty. This contribution is almost twice as much as 23.2% for all income from the State general protection system (unemployment, pensions and other benefits). And I believe, Mrs Pinedo, that if we add the €30 million increase in GIR and supplementary housing benefits, planned by this government for the 2017 financial year, we can ensure that the Basque Government has taken steps to give dignity to the lowest pensions. You will say that denying them the 8% increase in the minimum wage is to reduce the dignity of these people. I believe that we have already discussed this issue extensively, and we have already argued it. The issue has to be dealt with in terms of income guarantee income reform in Parliament, and a detailed debate on this reform will be held as a starting point for initiating this regulation. Having said that, and while you believe that we must go beyond the demand for pension competition, I believe that, as active policies have been transferred, we must also assume the competences of passive policies. The Lehendakari already in a full of control such as today's one recalled that the Statute provides that Basque institutions assume the competences in the terms of the Statute of Autonomy, within the principle of social security unity, guaranteeing solidarity and signing agreements with state bodies, as mentioned in the fifth transitional provision. This transfer can be compatible through the Economic Concert. It is proposed to take over the management of the economic system of social security within its unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity, all by means of a convention, as laid down in the fifth transitional provision of the Statute. Moreover, according to a study by the College of Basque Economists, a Basque pension system would be viable, and these professionals believe that it is necessary to go this way to ensure the future of contributory social pensions. On the basis that the current funding model will not guarantee a decent retirement for current workers in the future, a comprehensive reform of the system is needed in order to adapt it to the reality of Euskadi. The ultimate goal is to go beyond the patches with which the boat has been floated from the different state governments, and to propose solutions that guarantee the system's viability for a whole generation. This reflection is one of the highlights of the fifth edition of the Econometer of the Basque College of Economists. 57 % of the group claims that a pension system managed by the Basque administration and financed by contributions from Basque workers is feasible. Mrs Pinedo, while on one level the outstanding transfers between the state and autonomous governments are being demanded and negotiated, on the other, the road and society transfer, which is being raised every morning, we are being complemented with dignity by low pensions. We believe in the system, and we can't and can't leave anyone behind. One thing is to work in the area of competences – in this we are already starting contacts – and another thing is that, given the reality and the legal situation in which we find ourselves, we will continue to meet the needs that the Basque and Basque pensioners have in relation to the complement on the basis of the protection system that we have provided ourselves with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u65	Yes, thank you. Sorry I'm late, but page... Mrs Artolazabal, I have to say that I was surprised by your answer. And I am very grateful that you have told me that you agree with many of the statements, because that is what it is about, that we agree with what I said at the beginning of my speech, which is the fundamental thing about the public protection system, which is much more than the pension system, as you have said, and we in EH Bildu have it very clearly. That is why, because we believe that this is a fundamental, vital issue, we do not give up on the effort, because we believe that to guarantee decent public pensions the tool is a system of its own, a public pension system of its own. And being so, we understand that it is necessary to make way, and that is where we frame the pension complements that you have said and explained, and we support them, and we push them. And that is why we have raised this question today, because we believe that this Government has an obligation towards pensioners, and it has to respond to all those pensioners who claim a decent pension, because they deserve it after years of work. And I can only tell you that I am surprised by your response and your position on the pension system. And already, to tell me about the surveys of economists, it has already seemed absolutely creepy to me, because I do not get another word, flipping, after the answer of the councilwoman San José two weeks ago. Of course, today I no longer know who is in charge of everything in this government. Because you tell me again about the pension system..., indeed, you tell me about the possible viability of the Basque pension system, which some have said is feasible a Basque pension system supported by contributions from Basque workers... Councilwoman San José says a Basque pension system is not feasible... Are you members of the same government? I do not know, one day you will have to clarify whether this government believes in a Basque pension system or does not believe this government in a Basque pension system, because 15 days ago Mrs. San José said no; she said it in different media when asked... I mean, she's talking about the pension system, the pension supplement has to be treated by you, the negotiation Mr. Erkoreka, who just left... Well, this..., you really didn't know very well if they all had it and she died alone, it's said in my house, you know? That's what they say in my house. And that is what is happening in this government. That is what was happening in this government. That there's the complement. Yeah, but it just can't be just that. And I understand you're telling me that's enough. You threw me the 8% rise in the SMI. I'm not going in there, because you already know my group's position, but we've been... We still have a 7% reduction in all aid – and you know it as well as I do – by the Patxi López government, which the Urkullu government has maintained and in these budgets continues to be maintained! Seven percent. Pensioners are therefore already suffering cuts and cuts for a long time in respect of the pension supplement that this Government is paying, thanks to a law that was introduced in 2008 and that I can proudly say that it was many of my colleagues who promoted that law. And the fifth transitional arrangement... I'll talk about it again, and we'll go into a contradiction again. I know it, of course I know it: unitary, and respect for the principle of solidarity, that is what the Statute says. He says absolutely nothing of what his executive partner more than once has said, which is the cash unit. The unit of cash does not appear either in the Statute of Autonomy or in the Spanish Constitution, in either of them. Moreover, it appears in a later law, with a rank lower than either of the two, both in the Statute and in the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, be clear. Are we going to work in this country so that all pensioners in this country have a decent pension, yes or no? Are we going to work for having the competence of the economic management of pensions in a way that must be, correct, total, absolute, doing things as they have to be, because that is the way to ensure that all our pensioners have a decent life, yes or no? Because in the end, if not, we're doing what you just told me: patches. And I didn't say the word patch, you said it, counselor. Patches. And you patched up a system, the Spanish, that doesn't give any more of itself. My partner Eva Blanco said that, but it's the fucking reality (and I don't want to talk like that). It doesn't matter anymore. It doesn't matter anymore. And if he's under review, it's because he doesn't give any more of himself. And unfortunately the measures that are being put on the table in that review are to extend the retirement age; let us assume that public retirements have to be, yes or yes, ever smaller, because it is not going to give to distribute more, and on top of some it still has the defachability to go there to say that we all have to make a private pension, because, of course, the public pension is not going to give to everyone. That is the situation we have, and that is the situation that pensioners in this country do not have to endure, because there is a way to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u67	Thank you. I am sorry, Mrs Pinedo, that you are so angry with me about a situation in which we believe that we agree with the objective of improving the pension situation of Basque citizens. Of course, I have excellent coordination with my colleague Mrs San José, and we will continue to work, as she also advanced, on progressing towards the transfer of the competences that this people has contained in the Statute of Gernika. Having said that, and although you consider that we must go beyond the demand for competition, at this time, in which we are also working, I must say that situations of scarce resources which may have some pensions for Basque citizens are being dealt with in an appropriate way by income-guarantee income. The Lehendakari already said it in a full of control, and I repeat it again, and recalled that the Statute provides that Basque institutions assume competence in the terms of the Statute of Autonomy, within the principle of unity of social security, guaranteeing solidarity and signing agreements with state bodies, as mentioned in the fifth transitional provision. This is what the Statute of Gernika says, and this transfer can be compatible with the Economic Concert. It is therefore proposed to assume the management of the economic system of social security, within its unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity, and all this through a convention, as laid down in the fifth transitional provision. I have not said anything that is not included in what this government has already transferred to its government program. I sincerely believe that, from the income guarantee and social inclusion system, we give dignity to the beneficiaries; that this system already makes a contribution to social justice, cohesion, integration, human development and the indicators of an advanced society, of incalculable value, and that it leaves no one behind. Since the commitment that this Government has shown, a Basque pension system would bring dignity to the current system, and would be consistent with the rest of the systems that form part of the pillars of social rights in Euskadi. Transfer this proposal from calm and with the guarantee that we comply with the word given. We act responsibly on matters of maximum silence. Let us not fall into the mistake of generating fear messages with such a delicate issue. The pension debate has suffered catastrophic messages, without realizing that there is an error in the basis of the approaches, since the impact of productivity on the growth of wealth is not considered and leads to sometimes absurd conclusions. Forty years ago the percentage of the population working in the field in food production was 18%, today it is only 2%, and that 2%, those people, produce more than 18% forty years ago. Imagine the situation that would have been presented at the time to any economist if he had alarmed the population by saying that, as there are fewer workers in the countryside every year, there would be insufficient food and we would starve to death. So replace the term hunger and food, with pensions. I believe more than ever that it is time to join forces and messages in calling for the transfer of passive employment policies. And, as was achieved in 1989, we must achieve a broad consensus on the construction of this fundamental system for cohesion and social justice. Finally, I would like to say that the Basque Government considers that our current system of protection, depending on the transfers we have assumed, is a system of protection that addresses the difficulties that Basque and Basque pensioners may have. We are working, and we will continue to work in a coordinated way within the Government itself, so that the transfer, according to the Statute of Gernika, is assumed throughout the legislature by this Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Körors, made to the Chief of Empulcan and Polylic Society, after having heard of some cases which cause social arms to maintain social appeal." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. "Lanbide has been a problem." No, Counselor: Lanbide is still a problem. Lanbide hasn't stopped having problems. Lanbide, you've made it a problem. Lanbide has made it a problem because you have done nothing to remedy it, and the patient is becoming chronic. This Government, of course, we consider from the People's Group that it cannot remain unfettered in the face of cases of irregularities, fraud and abuses that we are aware of every day: plots that falsify passports to scam Lanbide; accused of crimes against public health, who are arrested for drug trafficking; jihadists who continue to charge the RGI and are fighting; jihadists who have already been convicted of terrorist crimes and who continue to perceive the RGI... Madam Councilwoman, is it up to this government to continue without changing the current income-guarantee income regulation, which is allowing all these situations that are generating real social alarm?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u71	Thank you, Madam. Mrs Garrido, I would remind you that the regulation currently governing the GIR was adopted in Parliament, and it was adopted with the support of your group. That the measures and rules of access to the benefit were approved by you as well. That our group did not support that regulation. That Lanbide implements the regulation adopted by the majority of this House, and in this case the regulation was approved with the support of the People's Party. However, do you believe that the system of protection that caters to a total of 114,412 people at risk of social exclusion generates social alarm? A key system for the welfare state in Euskadi, and more at a time as economically critical as the one that has been experienced, generates social alarm? A system built for twenty-eight years, faced with a situation and need of many families and people, with a broad social and political consensus, can generate social alarm? A regulation that guarantees a decent life for pensioners, whose pensions do not meet their basic needs (we have commented earlier), does this create social alarm? Does the regulation of an aid that maintains and allows them to lead a dignified life to 36,583 families without any income generate social alarm? With these and other measures, social and economic growth is taking root. The institutions are working to achieve higher quality employment and create new opportunities for young people and this society, and thus those without resources can move forward. Mrs Garrido, society is not going to allow itself to be stigmatised and to question a system that makes Euskadi a cohesive, committed and more far-reaching territory, with values that we are proud of and that are shared by the most advanced Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u73	Look, counselor, what is causing social alarm to Basque citizens is the inaction of a government that is doing nothing to remedy all the situations we are experiencing every day. Four years lost. You already have the diagnosis of the situation in all the data that has been provided to us, that you are also the ones who have given them. Of course, we have no confidence in a government that has neither acted nor acted, nor do we expect it to act. Yes, we passed the 2008 law. We also approved amendments, together with the Socialist Party, that tightened the requirements in 2011. Also many years ago we were demanding a unit of control in the protection system, which was established at the end as a result of the demand of the People's Party and which is proving to be absolutely insufficient to control that the requirements are met once it is in the system. Of course, we have no confidence in a government when in the legislative calendar the provision to bring to this House the revision of the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion is in the second half of 2018. Four years lost, two years lost at the moment, counselor. And, look, if you had taken into consideration the ILP signed by more than 40,000 citizens, to whom you gave a doorbell and silenced, there would not be situations like those that are happening now. In that ILP, which was then presented as a bill by the People's Party, it was expressly envisaged that persons who, for example, had crimes, had a history of certain crimes, could not charge the RGI: crimes against public health, crimes of terrorism... In other words, the requirements could have been changed if you had taken that initiative into consideration, which you denied the debate twice. Do you know what the argument was on that occasion? That there was not a stable period of implementation enough to see the assessment of the measures taken. The controls are failing, and they're failing loudly, counselor. How can someone continue to charge for GIR once they've passed away? He won't tell me the controls are working! You won't tell me that control unit is enough! Look, the perception is that Lanbide is an absolute collapsible, and for a long time this government had to have moved to action. Because you already had a diagnosis, because Mr Toña already said that there was a report that was going to be referred to this House. So, I think it's good enough with dilatory maneuvers and it's good enough to get our hair done, and once and for all to catch the bull by the horns.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u74	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u75	Mrs. Garrido, I don't have the habit of getting caught up in things as serious as this, no one. I've been a counselor for three months. I think that over these three months we have taken important steps, and we are going to take more important steps with the goal that this situation – which I am also concerned about as much as you or more – is corrected and healed. I think that they are focusing on twenty or thirty cases, that poor favor they are doing to what Lanbide is and to what is the protection system that we have in this country and that has helped so many people. I believe that you are deliberately focusing on situations that are damaging a whole model of which we as a country have been endowed. Please be responsible and do not transfer timely and isolated data that distorts the goal of incorporating people who are in very complicated situations into the labour market and also their contribution to society. More than 373,000 revisions have been made since 2012. We have to keep working. I recognized him in the appearance and I also recognized him in the presentation of budgets. And we are moving forward, first in terms of the comprehensive reform of the GIR, and second in terms of internal protocol issues, which in Lanbide we will shortly be amending. But I would also like to remind you, Mrs Garrido, that there have been exchanges of data, both with the Basque administrations and with the Spanish administration. I would also like you to help us when the Minister of Employment and Labour provides us with interoperability when combining data. Lanbide's not a cop. Lanbide doesn't have the data from the terrorists. Lanbide, when people show up at our offices, does not tell them if they intend to attack or have committed an attack. Lanbide does what he does is help these people when he shows up at those offices and is given a benefit based on the situations they have at the time. The police will then be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Your time is up. The 12th point in the theme list: "Ask the question, Joseph Ramone Becero Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made for the Environmental Planting and Housing Department, the Gastical Council and the Basque Agency in the Gastesian Town System of the Costecial Communciation against the floods." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u77	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Mr. Arriola, the Zadorra River is a channel that suffers from severe changes in its flow due to reservoirs. In the times you stretch has a minimum flow rate; in times of emergency releases the flow rate rises excessively, so that it usually causes serious floods in the capital's environment. In October 2012 the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Basque Water Agency signed a framework agreement for collaboration for the execution of the works of defense against floods of the Zadorra and the rivers of the south in the municipal term during the period 2013-2020. Despite this agreement, URA's investment in the Zadorra River has been minimal, even though an agreement was also signed in October 2012 for the implementation of phase 2 of that framework agreement, referring to works ranging from the Abetxuko Bridge to the Gamarra Mayor Bridge. The total cost of these works for URA was 2,030,000 euros. We have found that, once again, the 2017 budget does not allocate any financial resources to implement these actions, and we would like to know why.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u79	Thank you, President. Mr Becerra, the actions against the floods caused by the Zadorra River, provided for in the agreement signed by the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Basque Water Agency in October 2012, are being affected by phases. The third clause of this agreement states that the amount envisaged as the maximum contribution of URA for the drafting and execution of the project at this stage 2, as you mentioned here, is 2,030,000 euros. Since the signing of the agreement, two actions have been advanced, amounting to EUR 1,320,761. The first is the extension of the pedestrian walkway of Abetxuko, carried out between 2013 and 2014, with an executed budget of 731,725 euros. And the second is the rehabilitation of the ancient bridge of Abetxuko, with a budget of 589.036 euros, which is being implemented over the past year and this year 2017. The draft budget for this financial year 2017 provides for an amount of EUR 83,623, covering the final cost of this work. The rest of the actions of the second phase that you mentioned are envisaged in a project agreed in 2016 between the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and URA, whose budget amounts to 2.6 million euros. In other words, the cost of the second phase actions is going to amount to close to EUR 4 million, which clearly exceeds the commitment provided by URA in the agreement signed with the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz in 2012.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u81	Mr Arriola, I thank you for the explanations, but I believe that part of what you have given is aimed at mixing actions. The actions on the Abetxuko bridge were not included in that phase 2; therefore, all that cost, possibly increasing the global departure, was not part of the agreement to which I refer. The agreement to which I refer was to make a parallel channel of derivation, which, as far as I know, has not been committed. And it was the main action to prevent flooding in that area. I understand that right now the costs of hydraulic planning are sometimes difficult to bear in the situation where you have left your department's budget, but I would also like to remind you of a couple of issues. The first is that the conventions, when signed, are to be complied with, and in this case a 2012 convention, which is in force and has not been questioned, nor has it been denounced by URA or the city council, must be complied with yes or yes. I understand that's the way it is. The second point is that it refers to the criterion by which you distribute the funds available (the scarce funds available, I dare say) in relation to hydraulic planning. And here we have to say that the way to distribute them, the most objective way, is to meet the criterion of fulfilling what has already been signed preferentially. So, if we go to the budgets that you have put forward for flood prevention, we find ourselves with lots of items, of which the territory of Araba is allocated only 1% of the overall item. And I would not like to victimize this issue, but I do understand that in the particular case of the floods in the capital of Euskadi, reference should be made to the fact that, with an agreement that is binding, it should have been a priority issue. And five years later we are not being fulfilled in all its fullness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u83	Not everything is white, not everything is black. There's always grays. And probably the Abetxuko bridge originally, in October 2012, was not going to be developed in phase 2, it was probably going to disappear, and what was later done was to reconsider that issue and proceed to the rehabilitation of the Abetxuko bridge, which is also a work that is looking very well from the hydraulic point of view and also from the protection of an old bridge, which is put in value with the action of the Basque Water Agency. The project to which I have referred is an agreed project between URA and the City of Vitoria in 2016, it is a project that is currently going to be submitted to public information, and that will also advance in its environmental processing. We are on the dates we are, and given this situation, we could hardly start the works in 2017. In any case, if everything goes well, we could start the bidding process of these works in the last quarter of this year. Our goal and our will is to fulfil the commitments, even if they are inherited. For the future, I also inform you, and I have said this in my appearances, that I will try to ensure that what is committed is based on actual budgetary capacities at every moment. It is true that the budgetary resources of the Basque Water Agency are not what they were at other times, and we therefore have to adjust to these real possibilities from the point of view of making commitments for the future. In this particular matter our forecast is that these works can be committed and financed through multiannual expenditure between 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula team of the United States, the Plantion, and the Chief of the Housing Department of the House, the continuation of the water's Euskal Agency." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, in mid-December 2016, you appointed a person as director of the Basque Water Agency who has developed and develops a prolific work activity in multiple companies that can have a direct impact on the actions that include your new position, in particular as regards what is provided for in Law 1/2014, Regulator of the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges and the Code of Conduct of the Basque Government. I must remember that URA, the Basque Water Agency, has as its main functions to project, award and execute hydraulic work. The person appointed by you for this position has held thirty-two positions in twenty-five companies, of which twelve positions are currently in force in the Commercial Registry. Counselor, is it your discretion to keep the director of the Basque Water Agency in his post, against the current ethical and legal framework?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u87	Thank you, President. Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask me if it is my opinion to keep the Director General of the Basque Water Agency, URA, in his position, and the answer is yes. Yes, because this person meets above all the technical and professional conditions for this position, and also because this person has done nothing that contradicts the code of ethics and conduct of the public office of this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u89	Counselor, you know that the appearance of this person has been supported in this House, and that it is clear that there is a conflict of interest in your previous work activity. Because the director of the Basque Water Agency did not recognize that he currently has twelve active positions in ten companies and UTE, and that in his previous activity he was related to many more companies than the two he cited. And we wonder, if you do not remember that you have had and are related to twenty-five societies, and that you have had thirty-two positions of which you hold twelve, what data are contained in the declaration of previous activities that you have an obligation to make this person, according to the Law Regulating the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of the Public Position? As stated in section 10.3 of this Act, this prior declaration is the fundamental axis for proper control. If the office concerned says it does not recall more previous activities than two, when it had more, what happens, counselor? According to the law, it is the Personnel Register, the activity section, that must act. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor, under Article 28 of infringements, and under Article 29 of sanctions, the filing of declarations with false data or documents, serious non-compliance, or failure to report in the corresponding declarations, may constitute a serious or very serious infringement, and may even be punished by dismissal. We therefore consider it essential to clarify these issues and that the statement is in line with reality, because the appearance of this person in the committee has nothing to do with reality. Counselor, we have the Code of Ethics and Law 1/2014, and it says expressly that public offices, especially in cases where they occupy a dominant position in the Government – an example that coincides with this position – are "the mirror of the institution in which both citizens and the rest of the people working in the public entity are looked at, so they must avoid any action or omission that harms even minimally the prestige, dignity or institutional image of the Administration of the Basque Government, thus avoiding undermining the trust that citizens have in their institutional system." This position is one of the addressees of this law and this code, and the principles governing it are aimed specifically at respecting the principles of impartiality, equanimity and objectivity. Someone who does not recognize the activity he has developed, how will he exercise that equanimity? When are you going to abstain, under what conditions? When will it be inhibited in making a decision? Counselor, I think this requires some modification, don't you think?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u91	Mrs López de Ocariz, let us go to the facts and not to prejudice. Mr. Ernesto Martínez de Cabredo is an engineer with a very outstanding professional career. Over the past 20 years, he has worked in positions of responsibility in a major Basque construction company. Because of his ability and professional experience, he was offered access to the post of director of URA, so that the Basque administration could draw on his management experience, accumulated in the private sector. The Governing Council appointed Mr Martínez de Cabredo as director of URA on 16 December. By that time, he was obviously already disconnected from his former company, a company in which he had never had an equity interest. And he was also disconnected from all the boards of directors on which he participated on behalf of that former company. That is, before being appointed, he ceased to exercise the representation responsibilities he had assumed in other companies on behalf of his former company. Since then, Mr. Martínez de Cabredo has met – as it could not otherwise be – all the requirements of the public office he holds. On 4 January, the declaration of accession was signed by the Government's Code of Ethics and Conduct. On 17 January, the declaration of activities was formalized, expressly authorizing the Personnel Registration Service to carry out any relevant verification. And the same was done on the 18th with the declaration of property and property rights. You cling to a merely formal, procedural question (the down payment in the register), which, as you well know, takes your time. The truth is that this person has at no time performed any reprehensible act, none, but has fulfilled all the ethical obligations required since being director of URA. Moreover, upon learning that he had not been discharged from some boards of directors, an action corresponding to his former company, Mr Martínez de Cabredo sent the appropriate bureaux to these companies requesting that such a fact be recorded. So if something can be blamed on the director of URA, it is to conduct himself at all times in good faith, and in no way can he be accused of concealment or of having acted against the existing illegal ethical framework. And as an additional information I can inform you that, in strict compliance with the Code of Ethics, last February 17, the director of URA communicated to the Registry of Personnel his inhibition and abstention in the contest of works to which his former company competed in UTE, decision that also transferred me, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Union members of the Educational Department "about plans to improve the condition of education." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u93	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Greart, I say frankly, and without any irony, I should have liked to go out to this door, instead of going out to say good-bye to the work of the Board of Education, but you made me ask you again for explanation. I hope you explain to me what the Board of Education has in order to improve our educational system, because we don't know these projects until now. We haven't seen any initiatives, we haven't even seen any suggestions, we haven't seen any innovations in the 2017 budgets, and we haven't even seen the increase of the planilla. It's just the headlines, the press conferences, the medianist campaigns, that you're acting into something you're not acting at all. And this is also an example of the press conference yesterday: Coming along II. I don't know how many times you've been showing up in front of the newspapers, you've recommunicated it. And so, one after the other, plans up and plans down. The plans were irregular, the plans had no resources at all. Pan section, to figure out what you're doing when you're not doing anything. And you've made everybody angry. Everyone is angry: teachers, students, parents. You've pissed off the whole educational community. We've got mobilization and strikes this month. You have succeeded in agreeing with the authors of different characters and tempers, all of which are their properties. They all want to cancel the novel and ask for it. They all claim to return from 2009 to the reductions that are in force. Requesting sorting and modification of the evaluation system. They're asking you to increase the map. They demand stability. They're asking for a change of mathematical criteria. Schools in the weakest condition require a resource to be met with. They want to end up with the two-speed education system you're fixing. Everybody in one voice, clear, louder. They're petitioning for cooperation, negotiation, national agreement. They're asking us to restore the negotiational nature of the Education Table. They ask to look into the future. And that's what we want, comradeship, negotiation, interview. We'll set up the day and sit around a table and talk because we can't continue for years this people (the teachers, the teachers, the parents) have ruined the educational system they've built in the neighbourhood. This town needs an educational system based on equality, a society. For if our education, as I have said before, is something, it is the result of the country of years, which the different agents have built on the different declamations of the Françoises. But unfortunately, this Board of Education has refused, has rejected, has put aside the partnership. And this is an example of our past legislation, the course of four years, and at this beginning of legislation you have proceeded in the same way. At the beginning of the course, teachers, the management got mixed up in the bureaucratic firs. That's what you did. All the directors who made it brought formal complaint to the Board of Education. In Bak's payments, delay, and it's not true what you said Wednesday at the Board of Education, that you've advanced scholarship payments. Public work offers not agreed to announce, using the Board of Education to inform you, and to communicate the final decision with the mail. We've seen the temporary rate in 38%, and we've seen it in the budgets, we've seen it in the division, we've seen it in the Administration, there's no way to increase that of ethan Plantion in the Department of Education. For mathematics, without homework. The same privations as last year's study. Frauds on the hinges. No measure to turn back to the state of the schools at two speeds. With no balance criteria, no measure to handle multiplicity. They have special needs, and without directing the means necessary to the weakest schools, to return to their condition. And in the 2017 Prevencies (in the transportation, in the dining room), down the stairs. College Plan, what you've agreed to, you haven't done it. For the moment, in pursuit of the Spanish investment. And we know it's not all investments, but it's important. And we know it's as important as investment where it invests. It's no good for café para todos, but we must determine it well, we must identify it well how we invest it and how we invest it. And we expect this government to reflect on it before it's too late, and to have the capacity to return to the situation. That's the hope we've got, because we think the headlines aren't the way, because campaigns aren't the way. The road is busy, serious work, commitment, means, measures, and we are ready to travel, and we are ready to travel. But that's what we want to know is what this Board of Education has in order to improve the educational system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u95	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs. Ubera, as I explained in the appearance of the strategic furrows of the department I have recently directed before the Board of Education, the principal aim of all our activities is to improve our education system. It can't be otherwise. All this activity a week ago, exactly on the 24th of February, the President, in detail, presented the enduring Euskura 2020 Human Development, is placed within the strategy of the government program for this legislation. Among the strategic axis of his work, not only does he improve our education system, but also he seeks excellence. As a matter of fact, he says: "The education of perfection to ensure social balance." We advanced the strategic furrows of that government program in the episode I've just mentioned, and this week we've presented the budget of the year before, the day before yesterday, the year before. But when you look at your responsibility and ask questions, we'll go back to it. It has to be observed from the very beginning that education is the primary factor of a whole society and individual progress of citizens. It is an essential element to promote the equality of choice and to build a democratic community, a solid and a responsible life. From an integral point of view of education, we also believe that it is necessary to advance in the quality of the euscal educational system, and, in order to achieve it, to promote justice, social panic, education of values, respect for multiplicity, and freedom of thought and belief, as well as the defence of human rights and multiplicity. Our goal is to be smaller than the Euscadianporata at 8%. XXI. From this end, XXI. We wish to promote the integrated education model adapted to the residents of the century. In this pattern scientific culture and humanity will be combined, composed of lessons for the rest of life, and will be given to students a critical and radical view of reality. This pattern will be founded on a new integrated education law, which will answer the request and new wants of a society which is constantly changing. Education is a challenge, a collective challenge, and a major factor in the progress of society and people. The bet that this government favors education is clean. As I advanced to represent the strategic furrows of the Education Department, and as this legislature was presented a week ago in the government program, we take the following commitments: To encourage the educational authority to create a new Basque law. To defend the inclusive school, the ecitative, and the evangelist, to go forward to excellence. To achieve more stability, social movement, culture, and co-operation in our schools. I'm trying to encourage Eleanity in school. A guarantee of equality when entering the education system. The function of the professors is to promote them as the principal cause of education and change. Create, renew, and adapt educational structures. And encourage technological education. Besides, we also commit these things: Holding up to the leadership in Hezik's Excellent Occupations. Renewing applied and protective of the Professional Schools. To keep pushing international euscal patterns in the Heltian profession. Let's make the fifth euscal plan of Hezich. And the eucalyptic preparation cycles continue to encourage eloquence in the Helicias. And similarly, in college, to promote excellence, specialization, and internationalization, these are commitments: To develop science and research science of the university and promote talent in quest of excellence. To continue to develop the Euscal University system, to adapt the management of the results to the new global environment, to respond to the future roots of the Basque society. Euscalal University College internationalization. Bak's policy strength in the career of investigators. And to promote programs between college and corporations. 18 commitments, 18 points of strategic order, and all these engagements, will increase the number of enterprises and actions. These are public enterprises and particular actions, and, as I have already told you, they are in the government program. Of course, we really believe that "the education of genius, for the sake of the axis with which the social balance is secured." And all this because we believe in our education system. For 25 years, this country has created a system of discipline, and we must all be proud of it, and we continue to build it. We have a well-formed society because of this, and current generations are also being and will be in the future. Our pillars are solid, and the results support us. It does not start from scratch, but incorporates the many educational experiences that have a long and fruitful journey, such as those carried out around bilingualism and multilingualism, information and communication technologies, attention to diversity or coexistence. All of them have contributed to the construction of an educational culture shared by the educational community. Educational research is contributing more than ever in recent years, with proposals and alternatives for intervention with students, so that their training is the most suitable for future generations to be well prepared to live in the Basque Country and in the world. To this end, our proposal to achieve comprehensive education through the development of skills, both cross-cutting and disciplinary, is a bet that guides all the projects that are being implemented in order to improve the situation of education in the Basque Country. We have worked hard at the hands of educational agents, and we will continue to do so. As much as he wants to deny it, the educational model was developed with the participation of educational agents. The curricular decrees for the first time are drawn up with the input of all the agents and are the responsibility of the Government. It's the way, the karlana, a collaborative work. And now it is the implementation, the development through the different strategic lines and from the commitments made. As I told you in my previous appearance, we are facing a paradigm shift in education, and we cannot turn our backs on it. Skills learning involves activating new ways of intervening with the student, so that he/she develops skills through procedures and strategies that allow him/her to give an adequate response to certain situations that exceed a previously established binomial. Learning situations in this new paradigm are not conceived without being associated with evaluation, or, in other words, without evaluation being part of the learning situation. We must work and develop an own evaluation system that responds to our educational model, an agreed evaluation system, as I have stated before. An evaluation system whose objective is to improve: the individual improvement of each and every one of our students; the educational centre, through the improvement plans; and the Basque educational system in general, through planning, strategic lines and teacher training. You in your request have made mention of evaluations, and PISA as well. In my presentation of the PISA report (Bai, Idatzita dago zure eskaeran)..., in my presentation of the PISA report I detailed some of the main initiatives to be carried out with these three strategic objectives: classroom, reading compression, and teacher training. I also touched on the paradigm shift that wants to adapt the teaching methodology. Among the initiatives, he noted the need to provide tools to bring skills education to the classroom, for which priority should be given to the training of teachers, reorienting their training and knowledge to the changes that are taking place in education at the global level, among others. I'm not going to spread out. I believe that the text of my speech is public. However, opposition parties and some trade unions have stated that these measures constitute a frontal attack on the faculty. Nothing further from my intervention. Quite the opposite. I stressed, and I would like to stress again, that we have very good professionals, and that it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to make available to you the necessary tools that have been demanding for our initial and continuing training. But what fills me with concern is that you can confuse the citizenry. From the Basque Government we assume our responsibility in this, but I sincerely believe that it is the function of the whole of society to get involved in that goal. It is the work of the Administration, the faculty, the families and in general of all members of the educational community, social and political actors, each from within their sphere. We are talking about a collective challenge, a country challenge. On the other hand, you are also talking about the proposal for a continuing budget. I tell you that it is a realistic (yes, realistic) draft budget, and in line with the proposed programme, which responds to the commitments made and the improvement needs that are being raised. It agrees with the necessary implementation of an educational model, with the strategic lines, with the learning situations in this new paradigm. Learning situations in this new paradigm perceive education as a response to the different rhythms, needs and differences of our students, setting up a framework in which diversity is recognized and valued, because it enriches all students without exception. In this sense, far from promoting an education that increases social differences, we are working for equity and excellence in our educational system, understanding that this is the way to contribute to the construction of a competent society, to respond to the different challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u97	Uriarte andrea, we're backed by the results, do you think? Then you propose to lower the school vacation from 8%. According to the data here, the school vacation is here since 8%. Spain says it's over 8%, but, according to our data, it's 8% down. So what you propose is to increase the school vacation. All right. We are tired of the words that are blown by the wind, for these words are not seen afterwards in practice, actions, and measures. And it's not because we say it's not because some unions say it's because a whole community says so. And what we need is fewer words and more politics, and what we need is fewer marchetins and more serious, more silent jobs, and what we need is more plans and more resources. And you're always selling things that you've agreed to, but there's not one that's agreed on. There are no interviews and negotiations with them. And we're too tired. We are very tired, because here you are the only ones who are deceiving public opinion, and in this way, in the end, you are going to ruin the education system. And please don't tease me. We think it's a serious matter and that it's a matter of care. And in our opinion, it is absolutely necessary to act carefully when the nature of the table of education is restored to the negotiationr. And from this it is necessary to establish an agreement that will be inferred, that in the budgets of 2017, there is a tradition, a dotation. What for? In order to increase the map, to stabilize jobs, to push generation changes, to evangelize squares that have been reduced, to push on, to get rid of Exodine, even in the budgets of 2017, you can see that the squares are irritated by the localities. We need measures to put an end to the two-speed education system. What does that mean? To change the criteria of mathematics, a group must be created with all the operators of education, a process must be made, and it must be agreed. And the autonomy of the schools must be strengthened, and we must penetrate into the progress of the scholarships, and need resources for schools that have special needs, and which are in the weakest condition, for development of education, and the development of language. On the other hand, modern educational methods have been developed by schools for years, many of them over the obstacles of the Board of Education and without the protection of the Board of Education, and now by telling them that the Board of Education will be called a new methodology process may be offensive to some people. On the other hand, in order to improve the Sub-Structures of 2014 and 2018, the Plan must also be formed and strengthened; And then the evaluation. You say we need our own evaluation system here, and what you do is Lomce, copy Hezire and Lomce's evaluation system set EAE. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen the educational authorities, which are frozen in the budgets of 2017. It is indispensable to make a policy for people to come to the future. That's what it's like to have a community. to work with people, to cooperate, to agree. And to agree is not to do what everyone wants to do; we know that when we are to agree, we must all leave them in a corner. The compass must be the equality of opportunity, the means must be the support of a spur and a treaty. And negotiations are more necessary than ever. The one-sidedness and closeness which this department has established has led us to confession, and no one here likes confession, not even us, not the teachers' representatives, or the personnel of education. Are you okay with that? Because you seem to seek confession, and we can understand with your behavior that you are comfortable in the confessional field. We don't want confession. We want to talk, to talk, to talk, to talk, to the popular... For what education requires is to read a long-term reading, stability, seriousness, and secret work. And, I tell you, we're willing to travel for that trip, but we're willing to do it with commitment and care. But for that, we feel that this Board of Education has to change a lot and leave the confessional field.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u99	Mrs. Ubera, it's hard to understand and accept the assertions made in your interaction. In the previous legislation the sactorial table of the professors' officials had no progress. But why? In order to negotiate the new agreement, because the unions had established certain necessary conditions, the conditions of this sactorial table are excluded from negotiation, or because the laws of our predecessors, or the fundamental regulations of the state to which they must be executed, have been established. It was impossible to avoid these great difficulties, as it seemed to be impossible to go on at all. And the unions, though well aware that these boundaries were insuperable, showed no interest in any other conditions of work, about preparations, euccatations, licenses, and licenses, while others, in order to negotiate anything, were undoubtedly of great use to the workers. It seemed as if they chose to give up the second-rate negotiation and the possibility of improvement, and to repudiate the chance of association, de facto. It wasn't the administration who refused the negotiation table. Today we are in a new legislation, and we've already made two sactorial tables and two other tables of planning to examine and negotiate different matters: Especially on EPE 2017, the beginning of the year, the transformation contest, etc. On the other hand, it cannot be doubted that the majority's opposition to a public offer of work, and that, in 2015, nearly 500 opanants had passed EPE, and had been neglected. Most of them today, many of them young teachers, are anxious to get a job and start their projects with new illusions. With regard to other issues, such as retirements, replacement arrangements, OPEs, replacement rates, etc., it should be remembered that in our decision-making we are necessarily subject to a limited state basic regulation, which this Government would of course like to see exceeded by its own rules, and for this reason it has been working day by day and demanding when it has occasion. In this regard, the Basque teachers and their trade union representatives are well aware of the defence that the Basque Administration has made for the maintenance of the weekly day, the ratios of students and the regime of replacements contained in the teaching agreement, thus achieving the maintenance of teaching staff and the coverage of all needs. I would like to stress again, in relation to the faculty, that it is, in my opinion, the main agent of change and the educational success of our student. And there precisely, and for that reason, we want to influence. It's one of our commitments. That is what I said and what I wanted to convey in my parliamentary appearance on PISA, which has been so manipulated. Focusing our efforts on improving the teaching function, selection and the best initial and continuing training of teachers is one of the strategic decisions that we must make with a view to an excellent education of our students. All this will also result in the growth of self-esteem and the recognition of the faculty. With regard to the lack of will to negotiate that it seems to try to impute to this Government, they will allow me a vigorous response, and that is, sincerely not so. In fact, Mrs Ubera, the two sectoral tables that have been developed in those three months, and, as you know, have been developed within the framework of OPE 2017. But there have also been calls for planning tables, which some trade unions have sometimes chosen not to attend. I mean it: our will is favorable to negotiation, for the sake of agreement, but it is necessary that we sit at our table and make proposals, proposals beyond the strike-call. We have a responsibility, and we really believe that negotiation is necessary with union agents, but at the same time we think we must be honest and work with our feet in reality. It appears that all public officers and the majority of this society have suffered and are still suffering from a serious financial crisis, which has consequently affected our purchase power. But, returning to the sphere of the professors, it is inevitable to see that the conditions of the working of professors of Esscal are objectively better than those of the Spanish State, and not alone in the solid. Compared to the other workers of our society, have they really done worse by the conditions of our teachers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group were made for the head of the Medical Department, in order to form a treaty concerning the funds of property confiscated in 2016." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u101	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, actions against alcohol consumption and drug use are very important, mainly in young people (in addition, the age of onset in consumption is increasingly early), and the Basque Government, like governments of other autonomous communities, has signed agreements to receive state funds precisely for programmes to combat drug use and alcohol consumption. And for years prior to 2016, and from the confiscated property fund, by Law 17/2003, grants have been allocated to the Basque Country for the development of plans and programs for drugs and alcohol consumption in minors worth €1,500.00. What happens in 2016? Regrettably, the 2016 confiscated funds agreement was not formalized by the Basque Government, apparently due to a lack of time. We assume that it will be a mistake for the Government and that it will recognise it, and we therefore ask why the Government did not formalize the above-mentioned convention, which provided important funding for programmes and action plans on drugs and alcohol use in minors. I would just like to recall the agreement signed in 2015, which referred to the programme of intervention in drug addiction in the Araba/Álava prison; emergency centre in Hontza night; programme of selective prevention of schools in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in relation to alcohol consumption. Why wasn't this agreement formalized in 2016?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u103	Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio, good morning to all of you. Last year, you're talking about that contract that you're talking about. But this was not done by the Ministry. The Basque Government has no inconvenience, as it has in previous years, in dealing with this convention, the convention on goods confiscated by drug trafficking. In fact, he handled it exactly the same as in previous years. As every year, once the procedures have been completed, the relevant reports have been prepared and their subscription has been authorized by the Governing Council on 4 October, the document was sent on 14 October for signature to the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. However, the document was returned to us by the ministry without signing – and I will read it textually – "as it is not possible to process it, as it was received in this delegation on October 19, 2016, having closed the budget for non-budgetary expenditure and operations by Order of July 14." Therefore, Mr Barrio, it is not that we did not want to sign the partnership agreement for the development of drug addiction programmes, nor is it that it was not signed for lack of time. The Government of Spain decided to close the budget year in July rather than in November, as had been usual. I insist, the exercise closed in July, and left little room for manoeuvre for proper processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u104	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u105	Thank you, Madam President. In other words, the Government recognizes the error. Why? For you to note, Mr. Darpón: eighteen autonomous communities (i.e., the other sixteen, plus Ceuta and Melilla) met the deadline and signed the agreement with the ministry. The other eighteen, that is, the autonomous communities that lack the Basque Country, together with Ceuta and Melilla, signed all the agreement. In other words, it was the Basque Government that made a mistake by submitting the documentation out of time. We also say that, well, exactly EUR 354,000 have been lost, to see what could have been done with regard to prevention programmes, alcohol consumption programmes, drug addictions, and especially with regard to programmes for children and young people... That's what's been lost. And then we went to the budget and we said... Well, the Basque Government stopped receiving EUR 354,000 for its mistakes, for failing to meet the deadline set for the signing of these agreements, and could have made up for it in the budget, but no, Mr Darpón. Such aid is no longer received, and the budget for addictions is reduced. Because you were talking the other day about an increase in the health budget, but the budget is reduced by €500,000, Mr Darpón. Then something has failed, something has failed, because we have stopped perceiving that amount, and in addition it is sold increase in relation to the health programs of your department, and yet in low addictions. And this legislature and this year it was going to be very important, in relation to the normal programmes, of aid to the municipalities, the risk reduction programmes... , we spoke the other day with the director of public health on alcohol and minors, the development of the Addictions Act, the seventh plan of addictions... And this year, in addition to not receiving the funds we were entitled to, because of the inability of the Government, or because of the error of the Government, we also qualitatively lowered the budget of addictions. I don't think anything works, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u107	Mr Barrio, the Basque Government carried out the processing of the convention as every year, and on similar dates. If the Government of Spain decided this year to close the budget year in March, we would probably be left out again. Look, I'm gonna give you the dates. On January 15, 2016, we were sent from the National Drug Plan the documentation relating to the 2016 Convention. On February 3, fifteen days later, we sent to Madrid the programmes proposed by the Directorate of Public Health and Addictions for the said agreement. On June 29, four months later, the ministry sent us the draft convention. On 20 July, twenty-one days later, we returned the draft convention to the Ministry of Health, indicating our agreement and explaining that its processing, like all conventions, has to go through the Governing Council. However, it did not do any good, since the ministry had closed the budget exercise – in order to meet Europe's objectives – I insist on 14 July. July 14th. Moreover, on further demand, they send us a telephone call on Friday 22 July, at 2 p.m., indicating that we could exceptionally forward the agreement before 3 August. On 25 July, Monday, Santiago (festival in the ministry, therefore, indeed): we were given four days in the last week of July to process and pass through the Government. In any case, Mr Barrio, the Basque Government acted seriously, and you can be sure that the planned action plans regarding alcohol and drug use have materialized in 2016 with all normality. It should be remembered that the Department of Health has allocated 2.6 million euros in aid for the development of various actions in the field of addiction and health promotion. Let us hope that this year the ministry will act more diligently and respect budget closure on the usual dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask the question of Juan Luis Urano Serano, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, Alfredo Spinosa to open the new hospital with regard to the plan of sterilization in the process." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u109	Mrs. Tejeria, Jon Darpón, chief physician of the Medical Department. Members of Parliament, before we begin, once again I would like to show my human and political solidarity with the families of the six workers killed on 3 March 1976. Compañeros and compañeras who have preceded me have already said this, but I have the pleasure and pleasure that several friends who were in that demonstration where the security forces fired, because some fascist gave them the order, they have asked me to do it, and I do it with great pleasure. The question that encourages me to come here today are some problems that are emerging in Urdulliz hospital. The hospital of Urduliz Alfredo Espinosa (extraordinary humanist and republican, former adviser to the first government of the lehendakari Aguirre) was inaugurated on 1 July. External consultations and radiology were already in operation on 7 July. An excellent hospital. It will have 148 beds, 600 workers and professionals; emergency services, rehabilitation, mental health, image; eight operating rooms... One hundred and forty-eight beds seem to me, counselor. One hundred forty-eight beds. A pride for those of us who defend the Basque public system. An excellent hospital fully budgeted with public money, with money from all Basques and Basques, public management and public ownership. As is well said, very few hospitals in the Spanish State have opened with these characteristics. A pride. As we usually say some people from Osakidetza when things go well, Osakidetza always in the gap. But someone from the Uribe region, someone from the Department of Health, considers it modern to privatize; it is modern to externalize, as it is now said. Outsourcing is privatization, although the media communication campaign is already mixing things up and saying words that don't explain well. Giving public budget money to the private sector is privatizing. You can look at it any way you want. Like he wants to call it "Pamplona"! There are people who think it is more agile, faster, more modern and more efficient to privatize. There are no shortcuts to efficient management, and it has been put into an unbridled privatization race. Up to 11 million in different tenders, which were already launched in January! Our question is very simple: For what? Why, Mr. Counsellor, have you started to privatize an excellent hospital, which has caused all trade union forces (see that it is difficult for trade union forces to agree), all of them, to be opposed? More than twelve professional organizations, municipalities, citizen platforms, are unravelling an excellent initiative of the department that is the opening of the hospital. That, by the way, I invite you to see it, because we are also preparing a visit in the Health Commission, if you give us permission, to see the hospital, because it is worth it, it is an excellent hospital. What happens is that it's an unlikely situation. I'm asking you these questions for now. Why is this modern privatization...? No hospital has had...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u110	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up. Your time is up. Please. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u111	Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. Uria. Alfredo Espinas of Urduli is an example of a firm bet in favour of the public and quality health of the Basque Hospital. It will have the same model of management used in all the hospitals of the Shire, so there is no isolation plan. And I don't see very well that we want to mix society with this subject. I share with you the words that, in the times ahead, the Government has made an effort to implement a new, modern and functional structure of 38,000 square meters and an investment of 60 million euros, with 600 professionals going to work on it, therefore, is an important aspect. At its opening on 4 July last year, we invited the Health Committee, but we will have no inconvenience in seeing you again. The hospital is going to serve 175,000 neighbors, and I think I am not wrong to say that they have welcomed the opening of the hospital, and, frankly, we have no concerns about whether the lingerie, cleaning, kitchen, cafeteria or sales services are going to be offered by specialized companies or need to be attended by public administration staff. I have to correct him, because not all unions have criticized him. You review the unions present and represented at the sectoral table, and you will see how not all the acronyms are. And it is true that some unions and some political groups disagree with outsourcing, but it is important to show the opinion of patients and patients. As you know, in the satisfaction surveys carried out annually by hospitals in Osakidetza we ask about the services of restoration and cleaning. Well, the result is that these services are positively valued by 95% of the respondents, without any difference in the valuation of these services when they are provided on their own or by specialised companies. Really, with the health knowledge you have, do you think it is logical that a health centre, in the 21st century, is dedicated to managing lingerie, when there are specialized companies that carry it out with efficiency and professionalism? This Parliament voted for the outsourcing of the lingerie of Santiago Hospital in the previous legislature! As far as I know, I am sure that you are not uncomfortable, as a Basque parliamentarian, because this House has outsourced the cleaning service, or because the cafeteria in this House, Parliament, is run by a specialised company. I understand you don't. How many of the municipalities that we govern all political groups, including you in Spain, have outsourced cleaning services? I sincerely believe that an attempt is being made to fuel a debate that does not exist in society. Society wants a public health system that is efficient and appropriate to its health needs. In my opinion, our decision to outsource exclusively the services of cooking, selling, cafeteria, lingerie and cleaning, which are outsourced, as you well know, in all the regional hospitals of Osakidetza, is a sound decision, given that this management model has demonstrated its efficiency and quality of service. We have a public health system that is mostly focused, as it should be, on the care area, where most of its workers and economic resources are concentrated, and we use external management for some complementary non-health areas. A model of public-private collaboration that we defend without complexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary staff of Podemos to the chief of the departments of Job and Justice, about the strike-call of the permanent company of Eukot." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. First of all, I would like to add, of course, to the memory and the claim regarding the victims of 3 March and also to the worker Vicente Antón Ferrero, who was also murdered a few days later in that tragic year. My question, although I am formally asking you, Mrs San José, is a question for the whole government. As you know, yesterday there was a strike called by the workers of the public company Euskotren, a twenty-four hour strike. I had the opportunity to be with them at the gates of the Donostia Court, because the strike was called following a demand that the public company Euskotren has made to workers' representatives for a strike call that they made and that finally did not take place. Therefore, we consider that this demand made by the company is an absurd demand, because that strike did not happen and yet the company decided to continue its attack on the workers. Then, our question is whether the government agrees with these actions of the company, since the group of workers and the company committee have denounced that there is a strategy of the company to cut workers' rights and to attack their legitimate right to strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good noon to all. Mr Hernández, you ask me for our opinion on the judicial process initiated by a public undertaking under the Basque Government against representatives of its workers. I will begin by contextualizing the matter that you bring us to this plenary. On different days of October and November 2016, a strike was called by the LAB union and other independent trade union representatives of the public company Euskotren to try to make strength and get their demands. As you well know, the strike appeal is used when negotiations have been broken, when workers feel that they should continue to pressure the company to accept certain claims. It is a legitimate and legal remedy, and on which various aspects are regulated: the legality or otherwise of a specific strike call, the establishment of minimum services, and the possibility of a claim in case the company considers that this particular strike is abusive. All this case leads to the possibility of adding to the conflict already generated between the parties the claim before the courts. The trade union representation comes to the courts mainly because it considers that companies violate the right to strike with their actions, or because they consider the minimum services established to be excessive. Other times it is the companies that believe that the strike called is illegal for its purpose. On other occasions, companies – as you ask me, Mr Hernández – consider the strike to be abusive, and that the different rights that collide are not balanced. The strike called in Euskotren was presented with a development based on pauses according to slots and a pattern of intermittence established according to the dates affected. In view of the fact that the public company Euskotren is engaged in the transport of persons by road, train and tram, its management considered that the approach taken by the callers for the development of the strike conferred on it the character of an abusive strike. This is the reason given by the company when filing a complaint with the courts. In other words, the company considers that, while respecting the right to strike, the development envisaged for it in particular seriously harmed the service to users, and that is why it is considered appropriate for a court to rule, considering that the balance between different rights affected is broken. There are rulings of the Constitutional Court, for example, on this aspect, which refer them to the ordinary courts for their decision. In view of this situation, the opinion of this adviser, as competent of the Basque Government in the field of labour relations, cannot be other than that of respecting the legal positions adopted by the parties to the conflict, and, since one of them has considered it appropriate to bring the matter before the courts, to wait for them to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u116	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u117	Thank you. The truth is, I didn't ask you about the company's arguments. I already know the company's arguments to denounce these workers' representatives. What I ask you, and I understand that the answer is yes, is whether this government supports the attitude of the company in denouncing these legal representatives of the workers, especially for one question: because it is denouncing them for a strike that they did not finally carry out. And, therefore, it seems to us serious that in a public enterprise in addition, which we consider it necessary to set an example in terms of relations with workers, we continue with a complaint about a strike that was not finally made, which is the cause that led them to another strike yesterday. We are concerned, and we are also concerned that the company has used this demand as blackmail towards the workers, because it has proposed to them, proposed to withdraw the demand if they withdrew another series of calls for unemployment that had been part of the union representation. And to us that seems an unacceptable blackmail towards the workers. And this conflict in which this public enterprise, behind which the Basque Government is behind – I regret that there are now very few representatives of the government, because behind the company I understand that there is the Basque Government –..., is getting into a conflict against the public workers in which there was no need to get involved, because, as the company itself recognizes, in other respects they come to agreements. And we are concerned, because we are seeing that this is not our invention, although it is said here that the relations with public workers by this government are very bad. Last week we were able to check: all the unions – and here I say all the unions, because we were present – were on the Public Governance Commission, and everyone, absolutely everyone, said that this government's attitude towards public workers is null and void. That it is a null attitude to negotiation, that it is an attitude of contempt towards the workers of the public service. And yesterday you also had the opportunity to tell us that for this government the quality at work, the rights at work of workers, is fundamental and is going to be fundamental. It is hard for us to believe that this is going to be the case. When this is not the case with the public workers themselves who are directly dependent on the Administration, it will hardly be possible to do so by this Government, defending workers' rights, in private companies. That is why we are concerned that the Euskotren conflict demonstrates the Government's attitude towards the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u119	I would like to reiterate to you, Mr Hernández, that within the competence of the Department of Labour and Justice which I direct is to ensure the harmonious development of labour relations between the social agents of our community. I can assure you that for the department that directs the call for any strike is a concern, and if it develops in a company that provides a public service, such as the transportation of people, we try to do everything in our power to mediate, so that the parties come up with positions. It is not our job to rule on a matter that is before the courts. Our respect for the courts extends to respect for the right to strike exercised by workers, and, as could not be otherwise, also to judicial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u120	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the delay of a decision made by the government of Madrid on the sole side of the board of the collective investigators." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u121	Good afternoon. Although we mentioned 500 researchers in the question, we've been informed that there are more than 600 people injured. The government of Madrid has completed a change of the kind of contract which is prejudicial to a young Eestal investigator, 600 eupilscals. They have been deprived of the contract for a work and service by one side and backward, and have been applied to the kind of counter-work. The information about the subject is little, it is true, because there are no decrees which make this change possible. The only quote is that of a bulletin published in February 2016 by the General of Social Security. The consequences of this measure are many, or may be. The other, in addition to this, may be procured only temporary European health cards. When you end your practice contract, you lose the right to pay for damages, or you get difficulties. After this first contract of the Doctorship, they won't be able to... or they will have greater difficulty in signing again under the contract of practice. And as the help for the thesis was four years old, and now the contract of practice alone lasts two years, there are differences and problems. We believe this measure shows the lack of respect for the science and scientific sciences of the Spanish State. The State, instead of stabilizing and maintaining the state of researchers, takes upon it the measures which are incomprehensible, and proves that the investigation and industry are not amongst its preponderance. It is clear again that the political dependence of this people is a worthy condition of labour, and checks the firm and effective wager of investigation. The inadequacy of our University to take upon our own decisions is again discovered, which seems to be once more punished by the pernicious measures imposed on us from without. This measure, which has been taken without consent, without agreement, without agreement, and without warning, is violated by the rights of the study of six hundred young euscals, who injures the college of this people, and adapts our policy of inquiry. So we ask you this question: Will the Madrid government do something in front of a new type of contract that's going to bend the requirements of 600 team investigators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u122	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Casanova, I agree with you on something you raise in the justification of your question: the relevance of research and the collective that develops it. We are talking – and we do not agree on the figure – about 409 predoctoral contractors, most of the Basque public university, but also at 36 other Spanish and international university centers. I assure you that it is in the interest of the Basque Government to maintain the contracts of the researchers, and that it is in the best possible working conditions. For the sake of efficiency and effectiveness, I will focus on the situation of the collective to which it relates, and whether there is indeed a need for formulas to resolve a conflict in the event that there is one. As you know, the predoctoral contracts that accommodate the collective to which we are referring are covered by articles 20 and 21 of the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation. They expressly state that persons who are hired under this system may be hired for a period of not less than one year and not more than four years, except – and I quote in text – "in the case of persons with disabilities, for whom the maximum term of the contract may not exceed six years". We are therefore talking about special contracts, the conditions of which are not limited by the code with which they are registered in the General Treasury of Social Security, but by the terms of the contract itself. Therefore, the rights to which the signatories may be granted are not conditional on the form of employment contracts in practice, but on the form chosen when formalizing the contract, which is the subject of article 20 of the above-mentioned Act. Therefore, issues such as health card, compensation, possible new contracts and others are not subject to what is determined by contracts in practice. Our conclusion is that those who have signed these contracts have their rights safeguarded by the contract that relates them to university centers. On the part of the Basque Government, we are going to defend that the group of investigators should be guaranteed their rights, aware that in the event of a discrepancy, it will be the courts that have to issue a judgment on the right to compensation or other conditions. I can assure you that, from the competent department, such as the Education department, appropriate efforts are being made to know the implications of contracts made by persons receiving aid from the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u125	We have very little time for a discussion that can become complex, but I deduce from your response that they will give continuity to the policy maintained so far on this issue. I mean, they haven't done anything, and it looks like they're still going to do nothing. Because if you tell me that nothing has happened, then, logically, they will continue to observe carefully, but they have not been nor are they expected, apparently, to be next to these people. There's controversy. Well, first of all, in the number we actually disagree on the numbers. This same week there has been an assembly of those affected at the University of Leioa attended by more than one hundred, and the figures they give are five hundred and peaks at the UPV and more than sixty at the University of Deusto; therefore, I keep that figure of 600. But, regardless of whether it is a complex issue and may have different interpretations, the truth is that a measure has been taken that is not that it has not been agreed with the affected group; it is that it has neither been negotiated nor informed. They had to be informed through third parties that they had actually been changed in terms of recruitment. And we think that these people, who have enough to work with, that we all fill our mouths by saying that they are the future of this country, science, technology, researchers, advanced industry..., that many problems have with their own work and the complexity and precariousness in which they are plunged by themselves (because we could talk about that Law of Science, which, since no specific recruitment figures have been created, we have these problems that we now have)..., but enough problems we have so that they do not get dizzy anymore with these kinds of unilateral changes. So, this conflict... It seems that the Conference of Rectors itself has changed its mind yesterday, but you, of course, seem to have no intention of doing anything. So when it's resolved, they can...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u126	Mr. Casanova, your time is over. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u127	Mr Casanova, in my first speech I have tried to explain to you what is the situation of predoctoral contractors, what are their rights, and our determined position to defend them. However, you claim that the unilateral decision of the Government of the State has harmed our investigators. First of all, I say to you that neither I, as a Counsellor for Labour and Justice, nor the whole of the Basque Government has the decision taken been correct, and above all that we have not been notified. We believe that in a decision affecting persons receiving aid this Government should be notified in advance, because of the commitments we have with the programme and the collective, but I also have to say that legally the amendments made to the registration codes in the General Treasury of Social Security should not affect the rights entered into by the employment contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-03.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. I shall next read an institutional expression on the execution of the sentence given by the court of European Justice on the Western Sahara. "On December 21, 2016, the Court of Justice of Europe decided that the Western Sahara is not part of the kingdom of Morocco, which means that no trade agreement between the European Union and Morocco can be applied in the Western Sahara, and that no commerce can be established without the consent of the Western Sahara people. "For this reason, the Basque Parliament: One. It calls for compliance with and compliance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 December 2016, which states that the association and liberalisation agreements between Morocco and the European Union do not apply to the territory of Western Sahara. "Two. The Parliament indicates that the European companies exploit natural resources for the Western Sahara, which contradicts the law of international and European nations, and recalls again that all manner of commerce is illegal without the consent of the people of saharas to the Western Sahara. "Three. He calls the European companies of Spain, Spain, and Basque companies to follow international and European law, to maintain the occupation of the Marocian Saharas of the West, and to supply the activities which may favour the exploitation of the natural resources of the country, and to establish the legislation which is already established, according to the recent sentence of the jurisdiction of the European Justice of the Union. "Four. He unites with the peace stream of society, which demands a political, just, lasting, and acceptable solution to both sides, which, by a self-determination decree, will end the conflict to the Western Sahara." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-four.
