ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I inform you that the fifteenth point in the subject list has been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of Amaia Argrea Romanate Eubertarians to the chief physician of Eplegus and Polynic Society, the friendly Basque Friend of the Sustray." Too much for Madame Romarate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u1	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. To live on the best conditions, without dependence, at as long a time as possible, is one of the greatest challenges to which we stand. The hope of life has been prolonged until the third year of 83, four years later. Euskadi is one of the longest-lived societies in the world. This has been supported, among other things, by medical advances and the work of promoting healthy lifestyles in which Basque public administrations have been working for years. The community's growing old is bringing in new needs, but also new options. From this Illus, the Basque Institutions participate and contribute in several undertakings. We know that Basque institutions are concerned and take care of the elderly, creating mechanisms to make our neighbourhoods, municipalities and cities environments where they feel comfortable. We have been aware of the momentum given to the Euskadi Lagunkoia Sustraietik network, based on the World Health Organization programme for older people-friendly environments. We therefore put the following question to the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, Mrs Artolazabal: What are the specific characteristics of the Euskadi Lagunkoia Sustraietik network? We also want to know what they bring to the improvement of the quality of life of our elderly people, and how they directly benefit and facilitate the day-to-day life of this vulnerable group, so that they can stay as long as possible and in the best conditions in their daily and closest environment. We understand the fundamental collaboration between all the institutional levels of Euskadi in order to be able to create more friendly spaces for this collective. It is a joint and constant work, to be implemented over the years. Networking entails and will add value to the management of friendliness by all actors involved. We'd like to find out how many locals have participated in this first stage, and how many other people will be open for the next few years. We believe that the implication and commitment of all organizations and operators are necessary in order to build the best future for age; in the promotion of the autonomy, confessing the heterogeneity of the group, and in order to build and maintain a more friendly and solid society, the principal persons must always be the leading men themselves. We share the need to build cities and communities adapted to the elderly, having to rely on them to proceed with such planning, and we believe it is essential to look at and learn from the good practices of the countries in our environment that come working on this line. Thank you for your explanations and just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. These Basque institutions have been looking at people who are growing old, and we have tried to make them comfortable in our neighborhoods, villages, and cities. Friendliness has gained weight, and from the Basque Government we have also opted for an active ageing strategy based on three pillars: the adaptation of society to ageing, with a new model of governance in which older people are protagonists and participate in decision-making; anticipation and prevention to age better; and friendliness and participation in the construction of a welfare society. In this context, and based on the World Health Organization's programme for age-friendly environments, in Euskadi we are the promoters of the Euskadi Lagunkoia Sustraietik network. The Age Friendly City and Community program currently has 400 cities and communities from 37 countries that are working on this line, but in our European environment we are immersed in the so-called "revolution of longevity", which means living more years in better conditions. Hauek will say Euskadi Lagunkoiaren helburuak. First, to take advantage of the potential represented by older people in the lives of the towns and cities of Euskadi as generators of well-being; second, to create and encourage processes of community participation; hirugarrena, Ekimen Lagunkoi Sareak sortu Euskadin; eta laugarrena, hiritarren bizi-kalitan Hobetzeko aldaketak erraztu. On the one hand, I would like to highlight the initiative that we have developed together with the area of Commerce, because it is the start-up of the friendly establishment. The programme aims to provide facilities for establishments wishing to become more friendly, through a guide and access to training. They are simple guidelines and recommendations for providing quality service to all people, especially the elderly. It is a successful guide, which has been translated into Portuguese by the Brazilian National Center for Ageing and requested by the Valencian Community as a basic reference for the elaboration of its guide on the subject. Another initiative that I would like to highlight is Legado, which has been selected by WHO among the nine best practices worldwide to combat the age and stigmatization of older people, and which has also been recognized by the Spanish Society of Geriatrics and Gerontology as an initiative that favors a positive image on ageing. This initiative seeks the transmission of the Basque intangible heritage through videos with testimonies of elderly people. Euskadi Lagunkoiak egindako diagnostikoaren Arabica ikusi zen exebizitza zela esku hartzeko ardaz nagusienetako bat. For this reason, a guide for friendly housing is being developed during this year, which will recognize some tips for adapting the home to the needs of ageing people, as well as providing information on the possibilities for assistance and resources available and showing other housing alternatives when it becomes difficult to stay at home. Euskadi Lagunkoia is being recognized as an exemplary initiative, and so in Edinburgh, within the framework of the Health and Care Congress, Euskadi Lagunkoia has been selected as good practice. In addition, Euskadi Lagunkoia was present at the UN-organized Active Ageing Days in Lisbon from 20 to 22 September. And in this network, more than 50 townhouses are involved. Considering that our country is small, we are one of the great nets of the world. In Euskadi we are convinced that building cities and communities...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Your time is up. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which is the first year of the law at Maddalen Irina, the congressman of the EH Collectations, to the president." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u5	It's already been a year. Since the legislation began. Mr. Urkullu, what do you think about the work you've done for the time being?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. In reply, Mr. President has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u7	Head of the legislature, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. As I have been asking such short and simple questions, I have always said that answers could also be simple; but I think I owe a respect to this legislature, and therefore I shall make it a little longer than simple answer in this first discussion. And I have to say, you know, "Munk" has paid a rating based on specific data and it's positive. On the one hand, we have fulfilled our commitments. I'll draw three, Mrs. Aguirre. One, basic service prioring. Our budgets are social. Health, education, and social protection receive from 100 euros. This is our priority. Two, it's a economic recovery and a job. We've agreed to a full planning on 2020 years of commitment to 8.800 million euros. Three, coworkers and deals, strategic plans, innovations, industry 4.0, compacts, Concertation, Kupo, budget. We've had doors open on every field to get to the agreements. And on the other hand, we have received 15 ends, and these aims are being fulfilled, and I shall draw up three of them: economy grows, and new employments arise, poverty is dropping, and innovation the investment increases. According to this rule, we have four years' work to do, this is what we should consider, in the first year, we have established solid foundations and encouraged stability. The government has kept the word, and the agreements spread, and the difficulties become known and accepted, and the ends of it are fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. To answer, Mrs. Aguirre has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, good morning. It's all right to have self-esteem upstairs, to be happy, because it takes strength to get on with the job you've got in front of you, because it's not easy to do what you've got. You can't solve all the problems that this town has, we know, we couldn't solve them ourselves if we were in your place. It's not up to you, unfortunately. But if there is a way to solve or solve these problems you've got to do. And that's why we've been staring at you for a year, where you'd take it, hoping you'd go ahead. But not at all, Mr. Urkullu. You've done the same thing with the rest of your life. Aquaí, con los del 155. These are the roads you have taken, I dare say, almost the concubines of Spain, the retrogrades, the anti-democratic Spain, the corrupt Spain, the Spain of the elites, the Spain of Spain, the pofrancist of Spain. It is the cheapest thing to unite with them because they are small and weak, but to unite with them is expensive for this country. Our instinct, our soul, will you keep our future with them? To walk by their hands is like walking on a rock, and it is known that when you're in the rock you never look down. You always have to look up or forward if you don't want to fall off the cliff. And with them you walk through the defile with PP and PSEcos, and then you go down and look down toward Spain. And so we will fall into the abyss, Mr. Urkullu, into the abyss. Why don't you look up? Why don't you look at Europe? Europe to the Europe of the most advanced countries. Do you want to be a autonomy in Spain or a nation in Europe? What do you want? You said that the Spanish model has failed, that it is broken, Mrs. Mountain, that Mr. Urkullu says it's broken. What do you want to take with that broken state? Are you going to fight the centralization? And if you want to be a autonomy, well, but how are you financing that autonomy? By diminishing what great companies have to pay for society? Is that how you're funding him? The chairman of the department said, "We need a deep form of taxation, and you've obeyed the economic policy of PP and Confebask." And if there's no money, what education system do we have? Bosch, Siemens Games, Alpha, La Naval... our industry is to be taken care of. Where's your industrial policy? The work, too, is becoming more and more premeditative. And the wages are smaller. It's either 20% of the community or it's at the gates of poverty. There are other ways that we may live better. We want to be an advanced nation, we can do it. And you know who we're ready for and who they want us to stick to the eternal, the Spanish brand. We all get worse, Mr. Urkullu, but we hope it won't be too late. We can be on the level of the most advanced nations in Europe, if we will, if we will, and if you will. Thank you, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. In reply, Mr. President has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Madam Aguirre, ready, must pass through words. I mean we want to have doors open in every area and get to the agreements. How are your doors to negotiate with the Fables? Who opens your doors or who closes your doors? Look, let's talk this over and talk it over. I know them, I know them closely, and I have to say that we are better than five years ago. We were back five years ago and now growth is 3%. For five years now, health, education, and social protection have cost more, and not thanks to you. Five years ago, there were 868,000 people in Social Security, which is now 923,000. I mean, 65,000 people working more. We need more, yes, but we're on the right track. Quality employment is also our goal. A data: Three of the four people who work have fixed contracts. Five years ago, the poverty rate was on 13th, now it's down to 9. If we have to look at Europe, this rate of Europe was 16, 3 points more than here, and now it's 17, 8 points more than here. With regard to the degree of inequality, Mrs Agirre, three statistical data in Euskadi: the poverty risk rate in Euskadi is 9 %, and in Europe 17 %; expenditure on social protection per inhabitant, 8,300 euros, above the European average; in the Gini index, measuring the degree of inequality, Euskadi ranks among the top ten European countries in equality and social balance. So the economic development is positive, the job opportunities are up, and we're going to get off 10 percent of our work together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u12	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u13	Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, the members of the Podemos team made to the president about the tax-reform." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u14	Partners. Lehendakari jauna, what has led the Basque Government to move from defending, by the mouth of its economic and financial adviser, that there was room for increasing the tax burden on corporate tax, to lowering the nominal rate by four points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u15	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I will simply tell you that taxation must be analysed in its entirety. You say that the nominal rate is reduced by four points, and you will have to admit, on the contrary, that the minimum rate is also increased by four points. You'll have to admit that deductions are eliminated. You will have to admit that the Economic Reactivation Plan and the new measures allow more companies to co-operate, and with better results. It will have to admit and recognize the new anti-circumvention measures that have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u18	Well, to admit anything first, I'll have to see the deal. But do you remember when you said that there was a need for comprehensive reform, or that the tax burden on businesses was very low? Or from when I was answering the employer's down payment, nothing? Do you remember when you disagreed with Mr Rementeria, when a few weeks earlier you signed an agreement with the Basque Socialist Party that did not lower the nominal corporate tax rate? For a few days it was even a red line of its governing partners, even though they abandoned it to the first of change. I would like to know how this government can pass, from making public a tax agreement that puts the employer's fingernails, to signing fifteen days later another with the People's Party in the absolutely opposite direction, which applauds the rabies of this same employer. You do, though very handy, as Groucho Marx's famous and useful quote: "Here are my principles, and if you don't like them I have others". Of course, this Government is always willing to change its principles to content the employer, because, contrary to what some member of this House has said, to agree on what is important are not prejudices, but principles. Allow me, Mr Urkullu, not because I doubt it, but I deny that your tax rebate made by PP will reactivate the economy or create jobs. According to the data of Mr Azpiazu himself, those of his government, we already have a fiscal pressure on companies far below the state and the European average. Is our economy better than the European one? Obviously not. So, what argument do you have to say that this new tax cut to big profit companies is going to help our economy or it is going to help create jobs, as long as those companies that we always defend, small and medium, see no benefit in this tax reform or retouching? Because this tax reform is not designed to create jobs: it is designed to make those who have the most pay less taxes. So simple and so clear. You speak of the stability of the country, Mr Urkullu, of institutional stability. Having a partner in the PP is of everything, less institutional stability, at least not the stability that Basque citizenship wants. At the hands of the People's Party, the only thing that becomes more stable are more regressive policies and more anti-social policies. But don't be mistaken, Basque citizenship hasn't put Elkarrekin in institutions We can just say that everything is wrong. Elkarrekin We may not stand idly by in front of this tax counter-reform. The first initiative we put on the table is to ask the Bureau of the Basque Parliament to hold a full monograph on taxation in three months. A request that already has the support of Euskal Herria Bildu, and that we hope and would like to have the Socialist Party of Euskadi to support. That we also do not believe that it has any problem in supporting it, as it literally came on its electoral programme, with which they presented themselves to the autonomous ones a year ago. That's right, this is the first step. There's going to be more in the next few days and weeks. This Parliament is not going to be muted by the size of an attack on social justice. You will have to choose, you will have to choose: with the people, with the workers, or with the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u19	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, in order to have credibility, I would appreciate it if the spirit and meaning of the speeches at the meetings corresponded to what was then happening or what was being said before the media, whether for internal situations that took place in the parties or for any other circumstance. In any case, the Government has always defended the same position: first to evaluate the previous tax reform (we have done so), and second, if necessary, to introduce tax amendments with a broad consensus on the General Boards of the three territories (we have also succeeded). And I am surprised, Mr Martínez, by the clairvoyance you have to deny something that you have also acknowledged to be unknown. In any case, the Government has always given priority to the same objectives for these changes: to ensure financial adequacy for the provision of quality public services, and to contribute to economic growth and the generation of employment opportunities. And these two objectives are met by the agreed tax changes. And as far as corporation tax changes are concerned, don't be a reductionist. The collection of this tax depends on six factors: nominal rate, yes, deductions, number of listed companies, company results, circumvention control and effective minimum rate. I repeat: taxation must be analysed in its entirety. Look, all of these measures are going to ensure the two objectives we are pursuing, both: to guarantee essential services to citizens, and to promote the competitiveness of the real economy. Therefore, positive and positive, it is positive. I insist on the integral look, Mr. Martínez. The corporate tax collection does not depend on the nominal rate, as you base it; this is only one of six factors. And if you look at the tax as a whole, the valuation is positive, because we can count on more investment, more companies and more competitive, who contribute and contribute more. And it is true, yes, that the world of the company had requested a reduction of the nominal rate, but had not requested an increase of the minimum rate, and it has also been approved; it had not requested the elimination of certain deductions, and they have also been approved, Mr Martínez. So the agreement we've made is vast, and very positive, because of this new regulation we respond to the two priorities we have, both of us. On the one hand, we secure public services. On the other hand, we protect economic recovery and increase the chances of creating new jobs. The arrangement, therefore, is good and will be positive for our present and future welfare. And I repeat again... You say that the nominal rate is reduced by four points, and you will have to admit, I insist, that the minimum rate is also increased by four points. I would also like to reiterate that you will have to admit, in the light of the agreement, that deductions are being eliminated; you will also have to admit that the economic recovery plan and the new measures allow more companies to contribute, and with better results, and I am sure you will also have to recognise that the new anti-circumvention measures that have been adopted will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question was asked by Gloria Sánchez, a member of the Basque Society to the Chief of Work and Justice, the initiative of Osalan's running the risks of his work in the preventive view of the genus." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u22	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Madam Counsellor, the gender perspective, according to the European Commission, means taking into account and paying attention to the differences between men and women in any activity or field. It is a matter of systematically incorporating into policies and plans, and in actions, actions to reduce inequalities between men and women and to promote equality between men and women. The context of occupational risk prevention is not alien to this need. There is a broad policy and programmatic framework that seeks to help identify and correct gender biases in preventive and health surveillance activities. It is a fact detected in successive national surveys of working conditions the differences in the location and type of pathologies and symptoms of men and women related to work. On this reality, different bodies at state, European and global level have drawn attention to the different risks to which workers are subjected: working conditions, segregation of tasks, or simply biological differences. There is no doubt that the most relevant starting point is working conditions. In this context, it should be mentioned that women comprise the largest number of part-time contracts, that the wage gap exists, and special mention deserves sexual and moral harassment, a further manifestation of violence against women and that on many occasions they are invisible without just statistics, making it more difficult to combat it. On the other hand, in order to make a correct assessment of the risks to which each person is subjected, it must not be forgotten that the tasks performed in the workplace must be taken into account, but that the unpaid and out-of-work tasks must be added. In Spain, the legislation, whether to promote equality between men and women, with Law 3/2007 of 22 March, such as the Law on Protection against Gender Violence, the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, emphasizes the need to address these issues, given the special importance of the conditions under which work takes place, and more specifically with regard to the prevention of occupational risks. In Euskadi, too, the Law 4/2005 of 18 February on Equality of Women and Men, in articles 36 and 44, obliges Basque public administrations, within their competence, to promote the conditions for achieving effective equality between women and men, with explicit reference to working conditions and health prevention. Madam Counsellor, we are aware of the concern of the Department of Labour and Justice, especially its autonomous body, Osalan, over this matter. As part of the activities organized by Osalan on a regular basis, a series of days were held on the last 14th on the integration of the gender perspective in the prevention of occupational risks, with a strong representation and participation of people and where the conclusions of different research work carried out by Osalan were presented. That is why I ask you, Counsellor, what other initiatives have been or are planned to take to mainstream a gender perspective in the prevention of occupational risks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u23	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Indeed, Mrs Sánchez, on the day of 14 November, to which you referred, two of the latest works that Osalan has done from a gender perspective were presented, among other things. One is the guide "Guidelines for gender mainstreaming in occupational risk prevention", which explains how Osalan understands that the gender approach should be incorporated into the preventive management of companies, using the prevention plan as a tool. With the aim of completing and disseminating the guide in 2017, work will be done in the future to monitor its implementation in companies and organizations. The other work that was reported at that event was the report "Situation of women and men in the field of work accidents and occupational diseases", which aims to carry out an analysis from a gender perspective of working conditions and the damage resulting from work in women and men. They are two documents that were very welcome among the participants on that day, most of them responsible for prevention in different companies. Today, I sent a copy of them to the Senior Counsel and to the Speaker of the House for distribution to all of you. This work is framed in a more global context, which is defined in Osalan's successive annual management plans, the Basque Strategy for Occupational Safety and Health 2015-2020, and the Seventh Equality Plan for Women and Men of the Basque Autonomous Community. In order to make our initiatives more effective, collaboration with Emakunde has been sought. As a result of this relationship, an agreement between the two bodies was signed at the end of 2015, and a joint working group for its development and follow-up has been set up since June 2016. As a result of this collaboration, different actions have emerged, such as: Mutual training. Emakunde has participated in an information course organized by the VATP for Osalan staff, and in turn Osalan has given the staff of Emakunde a training session on the functions of the body and basic concepts of prevention, and this training has been extended to the technical and health personnel of the preventive organizations. Another action is disclosure. Osalan has organized work risk prevention days with a gender focus in 2015 and 2017, within the framework of the Emakunde equality forum. Attention to citizen consultations. Meetings have been held to develop a protocol for consultations, a draft of which is being revised. Review of a protocol for action against sexual and sexist harassment. During 2016, Osalan was asked to provide input on a draft protocol, and from there it has been proposed to address work related to the prevention of these behaviors, which is expected to take place in 2018. Another effort has been to raise awareness and raise awareness. To this end, a triptych on reproductive health has been developed, and a dissemination event has been organized each year. In addition, the topic has been made more visible, placing gender as one of the areas of action in the new corporate website of the agency, through which the projects it is addressing Osalan are disseminated, as well as their results. In short, Mrs Sánchez, there is a clear awareness in Osalan of the importance of incorporating a gender perspective into its activities, with the aim of promoting the achievement of equality between women and men. For this we refer to the most progressive rules, and we collaborate with the responsible institutions. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u25	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the American Society of Carmelo Barrio Barroja, made to the president by a public and financed campaign of dispersion." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u26	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone receives public money on false grounds something fails, lehendakari. It also tells me that they are other institutions, but you are responsible for the peace plan, which is a plan for all administrations. It is Lehendakaritza, the government department that houses the General Secretariat for Human Rights and Co-existence, and in this area approves the Plan for Co-existence and Human Rights up to 2020, which talks about the coordination of lines of work also with deputies and municipalities. With public money from the Foral de Álava and the City Council of Vitoria, Etxerat's propaganda campaigns have recently been paid for. Their booklets refer to ETA prisoners as political prisoners, and terrorists fleeing and fleeing justice as exiles and political deportees. Here's the document. [[Show a paper]] As the ultimate leader of the Co-existence Plan, how do you value the collaboration of the Provincial Council of Álava and the City of Vitoria in the recent campaign of Etxerat (false) on dispersion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr Barrio, as Lehendakari I am responding in this Parliament, and specifically in this monitoring session, to the subsidies and actions which bind the Basque Government. The very thing, logical and reasonable, is that you – if you have not already done so – and your party – if you have not already done so – address this question to the general meetings or to the plenary of the corresponding council. And if you ask me the question about coordination, look, the coordination to which you refer, as are the lines of work that you put in your question, it does not imply shared responsibility for the granting of grants and aid by other institutions. And I would like to remind you that Etxerat is a legal association, and has the full right to apply for subsidies linked to the activity it carries out. Similarly, you have the full right to appeal these subsidies if you consider that they have been misused. And if you intend to do so, Mr Barrio, I would remind you that there have already been two judgments in favour of Etxerat for grants granted by the Basque Government and by the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz. These resources were submitted by the Government Delegation, and, I insist, have not prospered. Etxerat's grants have been expressly endorsed by justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u30	Thank you, lehendakari. Let's see, but I'm talking about a fake campaign; that is, there are no political prisoners, there are no deportees and political exiles, and there is a fake campaign. And you're the coordinator of a social encounter goal, which is the Cohabitation Plan. "Option for empathy," you say. Little empathy, when there are false campaigns, which also insult the victims of terrorism. "Culture of coexistence," says the plan, and on falsehoods the cultures of coexistence are not based. The plan says "working table with outlaws and Eudel, which will aim to pool policies relating to the coexistence agenda". This is not an agenda for coexistence, and it is your responsibility to coordinate a working table with parliaments and municipalities! Gogora. You preside over Gogora, the Institute of Co-existence and Memory, and there are the three deputies-general and you, and Eudel. And those aren't the values. Insulting the victims, calling political prisoners the murderers, are not the values of coexistence and memory. Objectives of the plan: to achieve disarmament, dissolution, disappearance of ETA. If falsehoods and insults are allowed to the victims, I do not believe that that objective of the plan is strengthened. On several occasions they talk about the pamphlets paid for by the institutions that their party controls of political prisoners, deportees, or political exiles. I mean, today, ten years ago, when two civilian guards were murdered in Capbreton. Murderer, Mikel Karrera Sarobe; life imprisonment in France. Is he a political prisoner? Txapote, assassin of Miguel Ángel Blanco and Fernando Múgica, among other victims, is he a political prisoner? Toothless, killer of command Goierri Kosta and alleged chief, fugitive from justice. Is he a political exile? You may not like these questions, but you have to value the things that our institutions do and that you coordinate. Can you subsidize that, lehendakari? I hope... The Basque Government also gives grants to Etxerat; I hope that it controls that the campaigns that are subsidized are legal, based on criteria of coexistence. I mean, Mr Lehendakari, I have to tell you clearly, we can be in the time of agreements, Mr Lehendakari, but you know that we will never agree with public policies that distort the reality of the terrorist drama or that mistreat the victims of terrorism. And Etxerat's campaign is an insult to the victims of terrorism, and it seeks to whiten ETA and its members. And that with public money. And you are the coordinator of a peace and coexistence plan that embraces these funding institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, I have indicated to you the path you can follow in the first answer. And look, I don't like or dislike them, nor do I miss the questions and the questions that are asked to me. I admit it. I admit it. In any case, I insist that this is a monitoring session for the Basque Government, and I am aware of the responsibility that lies with us while respecting the areas of decision of the other institutions, Mr Barrio. I can tell you that the Basque Government, and I personally, as lehendakari, do not use the term "political prisoners" to refer to ETA prisoners and prisoners. If I can also tell you that the Basque Government, as well as the Arab Foreign Ministry and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, in coordinating the previous plan for Peace and Coexistence, and currently for Human Rights and Coexistence, we have demonstrated, with words and facts, the respect that the victims of terrorism deserve and our radical rejection of the violence of ETA. And I can also tell you, Mr Barrio, in relation to what you said earlier in your first speech on falsehoods, that, regardless of the name used in a brochure, the Basque Government does not share the prison policy pursued by the Spanish Government, and, indeed, the Plan for Co-existence and Human Rights makes proposals aimed at its modification. The public institutions, and a large majority of this Parliament, Mr Barrio, and of Basque society, share the need to put an end to the policy of alienating prisoners. Away from the prisoners. Changing this policy would mean, as a report by the University of Deusto has just shown, putting an end to suffering that impacts the families of the prisoners whom Etxerat represents. And this would probably all be conducted differently if this were so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Appelation, made by the members of the Casanova Alonso of the Union to the President, in the presence of the descent in the late years of the year, of the general rise of the EAE Sollion." Mr. Casanova, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u34	Hello, good morning, everyone. The thing we're about to do right now is very important. We'll talk about Solita next time. And sometimes, although we don't like to accept it, we all give importance to the salary, to the pay we receive, and to the salaries received in society. And precisely because this is important we give it importance. A majority of this society acquires the economic resources which it requires for its physical support, and it is clear that it is not in general well-being, if the foundations of physical well-being are wanting. And unfortunately, we bring this subject to this Chamber today because the news of our retirement is not good at all in the past few days. They're getting paid. People are getting poor. The people who have the chief income by bribes, that is, the majority of society, are impoverishing. In those times when we called it a crisis or a crisis, and now while we're talking about regeneration, and when we're face-to-face with the increase of the Gorge product of the Interior, we're still on the descending course. We think that's not acceptable and that public policies must be active in front of it. How much are the wages getting down? In many cases, as is the case, there are different indicators for measuring solo evolution. I'll mention three today that I look upon as the boss. The first is that "Encusta anal de costes laborales." We have to note that with solitary evolution we must have two factors on the table. On the one hand, the evolution of wages itself, and, on the other hand, the evolution of prices. And the result of the relationship between the two factors, we'd talk about the purchase power in the soddate, which is really important, because a nominal ascent has no real effect if the price is higher. Well, according to this poll, "Encusta anal de costes laborales"), inflation has been from 2008 to 2016%. Your salary's up at four to seven. Therefore, according to this inquest, the loss of the purchase power has been eight, five points in the course of the 10 years. IPT is another measurement, which is "Ninondice de Precios altujo." Even IE does it and takes other factors to complete it. He examines another interval of time from 2008 to 2015, and during that interval KPI or IPC was 11.5% and wages, according to this meter, got up 6,7. Here, then, the loss of the purchase power is a little less, but it has been 4,8. And another meter for detecting the evolution of prices: increase pay agreed on labor agreements. CRL provides data in a series. We'll only quote three landmarks. In 2008, it was the average rise of the convents that were signed at 4:4%, which are now signed in 2016 at 1,01. I mean, it's four times signed in the convents. And from 2011, as far as 2011, that it was still 3,16 to go as high as the one, so that the form of work-refers in force, and comes to an enormous decline. Then, "Ecusta anal de costes laborales" tells us that we lost the purchase power 8,5, IPT tells us that the climb that is signed in the treaty is 4,8, and that it is four times less than ten years ago. There are other polls, made by Adecco, data given by the ELA union... But they all agree with the same examination, or with the same conclusion: the salary is losing the capacity of bribery. That is to say, the majority is impoverishing, they can afford less money by hire. And worse still, the "Encusta anal de costes laborales" has been referred to in recent years to increase their tendency. The average salary of 2016th from 2013 to EAE has had a discount in absolute terms. It is not only that the purchase power has been lost, but that the wages themselves have been lowered, 2.43. And from 2016 to 2017 the numbers have descended into absolute terms. To calculate the capacity of purchase, we must add inflation to it, and we may say that in the course of recent years, in 2016, we have lost more than three points the capacity of bribery. People and workers have been impoverished for three points and Mr. President hasn't read triunifalistic reading of the last five years he's been talking about, but that's one of the most important economic factors and the economic factor that has the greatest influence on people's lives. Why are we going back? A lot of readings can be made, but I'll get what we call the main factor today. the wages are getting lower because the patriarch is pocketing a larger portion of the cake. We're not in a technical crisis right now, we're raising the Gority Production of the Interior. Now, using a metaphor that is always used, the economy cake is growing, but the corporations, who have the most money, take more and more part from the growing cake, and they're pocketing the part we've got. Confebas's instigating and pushing this down sodding that he wants to pocket more money. He does it because he wants it and he does it because he can, because PP's government imposed on Madrid because he gave them a job form that gave them the opportunity to lock up the collective negotiation to the patricians. She wants to, she can, and besides, she's allowed to do it for fun. We've never seen anyone accused of patronarian on behalf of this government with a decent account of what he's doing around the yard. In contrast to the gravity of what is described here, we can only see warmth from the government to the patricians, when they are not of any importance. A government which has an open practice with the principal unions has no ability to make any demands on the patrician. It's all his work, it's all about throwing flowers, it's all about taking pictures together, but considering the anxiety he has, we think he deserves another treatment. It deserves a much more satisfactory treatment from the government, because it is the majority, and the workers have reason. The workers need a general increase of wages, and so the Parliament tried. So the work of the Government is the work of the Government, because it's just, because it's legitimate, doing the politics of its progress. Our exam is not a manikeo. The demonstration is the reality that we consider and the attitude of this insatiable pathonal. We're gonna finish double interpelation. On the one hand, to put aside the position of the patrician as yet, to defend the workingmen, because it is just to defend the majority. And on the other hand, I'd like to remind you of a few words you've made here in the Platea of General Politics a few weeks ago. You spoke of the new state, and you told us that new hands are needed. You gathered the handbags into five sets. One of them, the fourth, is a multitude of relations of labour, and all the powers of protection or security. I conclude, that if this is not only a mere literary exercise, or an entertainment of early life, if this be the political end of the President and of the Government, we think the alliances and companions of another kind will require. With those who have said that they are not ready to comply with the state at the present day, how can we increase the number of hands? And in this case it is plain that we speak of things to eat. Because when we handle things here, we eat more and better. Because this relationship of strength here would never give way to making a living reform in Madrid. After all, the situation in which we are suffering at the present day with soles and in the market-place, is the result of a policy imposed on by Madrid, and the result of wanting hand in this matter. So we ask you, if you really want to do this, to find out who are traveling in the same direction, and not those who are on the contrary, as you have hitherto done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u36	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, presidents, chief officers, good morning. Mr. Casanova, in my first revelations, I introduced economic accounts of January 27th this year, and made it clear to me that it was the slow rhythm with which they had hitherto been exposed to the climb at Solita. I have often repeated the same idea since then. That is to say, we need a resumption of the economy of all networks, that the rhythm of the economy of all networks spreads a margin of rise without increasing the rate of pressure or inflation. It may be said, therefore, that there is a greater agreement, or that there are no great differences, but I think there are some differences, and I will explain them. It is clear that in recent years wage restraint has been introduced which has allowed labour costs to be reduced or maintained without major changes. The Euskadi Labour Relations Council has recently dealt with the issue of wages in its last quarterly report, noting that, in the period 2008-2016, the annual labour cost in Euskadi had increased by only 4.7%, compared to 5.2% of the State, and that in that period of eight years prices actually rose, as you pointed out, by 9%, which meant a loss of purchasing power of just over four points. If we look at collective bargaining, during the first part of the crisis the increases in existing agreements were more than 2% per year, whereas from 2013 the increase was less than 1%. The so-called wage deflation has undoubtedly been one of the keys to the model of adjustment to the crisis that has followed the Basque economy, as has the Spanish economy, with which it shares the regulatory framework. At present, however, the Basque economy presents solid growth, with job creation and, at the same time, with an increase in productivity greater than that of the Spanish economy, which gives us scope to raise wages in a non-inflationary way. He knows, too, at the present day, a compact growth of the Esscal economics, producing jobs, and adding productive productivity over the economy of the state. That's what makes it a size to raise wages without the pressure to increase them. The recovery of our economy is a reality, and the time is getting closer and closer when the European Central Bank will draw interest rates from the current zero zone. Analysts estimate that the central bank will raise rates by the end of this year or early next year. No new movements are expected in the short term, unless the economy gives an acceleration, and the door will be opened to a new cycle in which it is necessary for families to have purchasing power so as not to be trapped by the price rise that may follow. Therefore, in the face of a scenario of normalising monetary policy, consumption will require a wage rise, a wage rise that would vaccinate the Basque economy against the slowdown in consumption. Because without the push of the purchasing power of the workers the gross domestic product would lose bellows, and the circle of the economy would return to its previous point. My calls for recovery have undoubtedly been based on equity, bearing in mind that income distribution has worsened with the crisis, especially in the prejudice of the lower sections. But also economic reasons, for the sustainability of the growth model once the tailwinds of monetary policy, energy prices and exchange rate stop playing in favour, and also for the concern that the expansion of employment was shrinking. As I said earlier, other more authoritative voices than mine have joined this idea, from the CEO of the Sabadell Bank to the President of the European Central Bank himself, Mario Draghi, who has asked social partners to give priority to wage increases, because Europe – he said – needs wage increases. Some voices, as I have said before, more important than mine have been created, such as the Councillor of the Sabadell Bank, or Mario Draghi himself, the privilege to appeal to social agents in the Ascentae, because Europe needs these ascents. Indeed, in view of the finding that inflation does not end up recovering despite the monetary policy developed so far, the last bullet would be income policies. Wage increases which are not easy to impose, because they depend on the evolution of productivity, and which are accepted by the social partners. In my opinion, I would like to reiterate that there is scope for wage increases without prejudice to the competitive position of the Basque economy, i.e. without increasing unit labour costs, because productivity is growing reasonably. As stated in the last annual report, the hourly labour costs in Euskadi have increased by 10% since 2008, less than in the European environment. It has recovered (and that is positive), it has recovered relative competitiveness. In addition, in view of the evolution of productivity, total unit labour costs are similar to those of the European Union to Fifteen and advanced countries for the economy as a whole. And in the case of industry, for example, the relative improvement has been very clear, because they have been reduced by 15% compared to 2008, when in Europe they have grown by 5%. Anyway, I don't want to overwhelm with figures, but it seems to me important to illustrate what our real situation is. I understand that at the moment it is possible and desirable to improve wages without falling into the mistakes of the first stage of monetary union, in which we lost competitiveness at a rate of up to 2% in terms of prices and wages, without improving the situation of wage labour. In the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities of 2016 there was already a clear improvement in lower incomes, and that is very positive, but recent short-term statistics continue to warn that wages are struggling to take off; hence my warning remains valid today. And in the background of that demand is the conviction that wage earners and wage earners have collaborated in the recovery of our economy, assuming the effort and sacrifice of cutting their payrolls. At a time when the situation improves and companies win the market, there is a small margin for wages to grow and prevent the Basque economy from taking a step back. Raising wages, in addition to helping to improve the income of public coffers, favours consumption and activity. Increasing employment and wages are the determinants of consumption, demand and economic growth. However, in any case, wage regulation depends primarily on collective bargaining, which for years has suffered from a situation of paralysis which penalizes the long-range rise. It is clear that the crisis and legal reforms of recent years have led to a substantial change in the model of labour relations, but ultimately collective bargaining is a matter involving social partners, trade union organisations and business organisations. It is these agents who are responsible for collective bargaining to be carried out and to have its fruits, and it is within the framework of collective bargaining where wage increases have to be decided, as the Basque Parliament said on 25 May. In other words, the rise in wages in collective bargaining is based on the autonomy of the parties. Governments, as is the case with the Basque Government, can only help to push forward such negotiations and for the parties to agree. It is therefore up to us from the Government only to facilitate places of meeting and permanent dialogue, to insist, and to encourage the opening up of the avenues for concertation in order to achieve this objective. And for the unlocking of collective bargaining, as the Basque Parliament also said, a key starting point is the interprofessional agreement on the structure of collective bargaining, of 17 January 2017. As in the plenary session of this House, I believe that such an agreement can be useful, but for it to be useful it must be filled with content by closing the appropriate agreements between its protagonists, that is, between trade union and business organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u38	Mr Lehendakari, I am surprised and sorry that you have not responded directly to this question addressed to you. Everyone (when I speak of "everybody", everyone at the international level) is talking about the problem of wages, and I believe that the citizenship of this community that you preside over deserved to know your opinion, more when it is directly questioned. Because it is a subject that directly affects the quality of life of so many people, of practically all the people in this country, and it is a subject that is wrong. And it is a shame that you have not come here to give your position as lehendakari, president of this government and the highest political leader of this community, on a central problem that is going wrong. I wish it hadn't been hidden, but it's just that you have an allergy to difficult problems. That is why his Government's strategic challenges include no mention of wages or the recovery of the purchasing power of workers in this country. That is why, in its governing agreement with the Socialist Party, the word "precarity" and labour market problems are virtually not mentioned. And, in addition to being saddened and surprised that you are not here, I do not know how to say, I am shocked that it was Mr Azpiazu who came here to say that he is in favour of an increase in wages, because, as you are as successful as you have been with the labour reform, Confebask may now come to impose on us a widespread regression of wages. In any case, I do not know why, if you did not think it appropriate to answer – for me, absolutely wrongly – it was not the Labour or Employment Councillors, who are more closely related to the subject, who are directly related to labour relations – worth redundancy – why it was not them and why it was the Azpiazu Councillor, who seems to have very good will but very little impact on the economic policies of this country. Wages are not paralyzed because there is no collective bargaining. The employer has paralysed collective bargaining so that wages do not rise, which is something different. And the order of factors does alter the product, because it determines where the responsibilities are. It was previously stated in its legislative balance sheet that 75% of workers have full-time jobs. Man, man, it's just... No, not the full day. So what did he say? "Undefined," that's it. "Indefinite work." That is, 25% is in partiality. And I have other data: 32% is in partiality, according to the Labour Relations Council. Only 65% have a fixed job. As for full and part-time work, 75% have full-time work and 25% have part-time work. In other words, 25% of part-time workers and one third of temporary contracts. 93 % of contracts signed are temporary contracts. Only 37.5% of the agreements currently affecting Basque workers are in force. The wage increase of the new agreements is, on average, 1.62%. I mean, not through collective bargaining... because sometimes it is said that there are certain unions that do not want to negotiate and others do, that agreements are signed with them. The average of the agreements is 1.62. The average of the agreements today, growing to 3% and with the GDP of 2008 recovered, means that a milleurist would be pocketed 16 euros per month more per month. The average of the agreements to date, of which they are signed, means that purchasing power continues to be lost. And that's the reality, and I think it's a reality that's worth the lehendakari value and the government value. Because it is also a reality that is being reaped in women, who charge much less than men, that there is a very important wage gap, and also in the poorest. Because the decrease in purchasing power is not being uniform, and if we analyze the structure of wages per deciles (i.e. by classifying from 10% to the next, and so on) we see that the decrease and loss of purchasing power is concentrated precisely on the five deciles, i.e., on the half that it pays less. In other words, people who previously paid less are having even greater difficulties. And we therefore understand that this is an urgent matter for active policy. I do not know, I would like the president of the party that supports this government, the main party that supports this government, with the same belligerence with which it faces certain unions, to say certain things to the employer. Let me say that it is time to raise wages, that it was time to raise wages; that those employers who ask for social recognition, because they know that they still lack social recognition, were required to act responsibly and share the benefits that already exist and the growth that already exists with the working majority, which also contributes to making it possible, and also decisively. I would like another businessman, and I would like a more assertive government in defense of the interests of the majority. But it's a shame we don't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u40	Mr. Casanova, I don't know if I have to veto to answer to you, do I? It is true that, indeed, the Basque Government or its members can make recommendations; this is a market economy, whether we like it or not, and it is also a parliamentary democracy, with which I believe that this imposition on others when they do not belong is somewhat complicated. But at least I can tell you that both of us have been consistent with our proclamations, and in this regard the Basque Government has set a clear priority in the salary recovery of public sector workers, always within budgetary constraints and within the basic regulatory framework. Therefore, when we have been able (when we have been able, when our budgetary resources have allowed us and the basic regulations have allowed us), we have proceeded to increase wages by 1% in 2016 and 2017, and by 2018 we have budgeted 1.5%, which you do not seem to like, for the support of this draft budgets. We know that there are still and will continue to be limitations, but our vocation and commitment in this area cannot be denied, even unilaterally, to the impossibility of reaching agreements with trade union organisations. I believe that these decisions cannot be disregarded, and less so in view of the development of increases in existing conventions. We are aware of the problems that collective bargaining is going through, and that this does not help precisely to achieve the objective, but, from the responsibility that I have for the march of the economy, I must reiterate my speech that the continuity of our growth would be highly favoured if there is a more balanced growth of the different incomes. I have already asked for an increase in wages at the beginning of the year, and the economic data have confirmed, I believe, the soundness of that recommendation. It is clear that a wage rise does not have to be universal, because there are companies in difficulty, but it must be done where possible. Does that mean that each and every one of the companies must follow the same pattern? No, obviously not. Nor would I like to go into quantifying the rate of increase, as I have not done on other occasions, but I do want to make it clear that workers must also be responsible and be clear how much their company can give them. Asking for salary increases that will lead to closure, for example, would be a real irresponsibility. Finally, I would like to say that I am convinced that demographic dynamics are going to transform the labour market in a few years' time, and that the labour force is going to be a restriction on growth and that this will ultimately impact wages. But today the problem remains the stagnation and the fact that great inequalities are already occurring. The Government and its members, in the exercise of their respective responsibilities, are sending signals to the private sector. The resolution adopted, as I said earlier, by the Basque Parliament on 25 May, a resolution which was addressed to the two parties involved in collective bargaining, and urges the two parties, the employers and trade union organisations. It is possible that from the interests of the parties they are criticized for seeming too liberal or too timorous, but that does not mean that they are not adjusted. Moreover, I am firmly convinced that they are, and I hope I have provided sufficient evidence with my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u41	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about the prizes of Joše Marorta, 2017." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u42	Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari jauna, last November 21st the Basque government awarded the Joxe Mari Korta 2017 prizes to four Basque entrepreneurs. These awards are awarded by the Basque Government on the basis of the evaluation of a jury, which in this 2017 has been composed of Councilwoman Tapia as president, and representatives of the Basque Government and business associations Confebask, Adegi, Cebek and SEA and the Bidetik Foundation. We would have liked that in this recognition we would have seen the parity that we all defend in the discourses for the different spheres of society, and more if it fits in those spaces that are still highly masculinized, as is the business sphere. That is why, when we saw the photo and the list of people recognized in this award given by the Basque Government itself, we decided to ask them what assessment the Basque Government makes of the fact that no Basque entrepreneur has been recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u43	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I want to begin by acknowledging that I also share your feeling. Similarly, as you also say in the introduction to the written question, I do not doubt the value of the award-winning entrepreneurs either. You know that candidatures for these Korta awards can only be submitted by business associations, commercial corporations or professional colleges, the Bidetik foundation itself, to which you have mentioned, or those companies based in Euskadi. The jury, in which the Basque Government does participate, only has the capacity to decide on the proposals that have been submitted. And neither the jury nor the government, therefore, can present candidates for these awards. Last year two of the four award-winning people were women. Last year. This year, however, the jury has found that no women's candidacy for the awards had been presented. The aim of these awards is to recognize a whole life story for entrepreneurs. According to the basis – I quote in text – "a life dedicated to the company". We are talking, therefore, in most cases of business projects that emerged in the middle of the last century, a time when we will have to recognize that the vast majority of these initiatives were driven by men. But I want to acknowledge and highlight a very significant circumstance: it is true that the majority of people awarded are men, but also in the award-giving it has been found that in many cases those who continue these projects, even though the award-winners have been men, who continue these projects today are women. I am therefore convinced that the number of women entrepreneurs nominated and awarded will increase over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u46	Thank you. You said the people behind it are women. The ones we want to see in front of us are women, not men. In Euskadi, Mr Lehendakari, there are also very significant inequalities between women and men in the business sphere. The Association of Businesswomen and Directives of Bizkaia (AED), in view of the lack of specific data, has promoted the creation of an observatory known as Women's Observatory Enterprise, whose objective is to obtain clear and contrasted and reliable information on the real situation of women in the world of enterprise. Just a year ago, they said that Euskadi was at the tail of the Spanish state in providing women's leadership positions on its councils. According to the Equality Act, large companies should have 40% female representation on their boards of directors. Euskadi's not doing it! The Association of Women Entrepreneurs of Álava (AMPEA) a few days ago, at its fourth congress, expressed concern about the wage gap, macho violence, parity, glass ceiling, media, or false myths in the recruitment of women. According to AMPEA, business culture is based on male stereotyping, and hinders the advancement of women in business. Also from the Association of Professionals and Entrepreneurs of Gipuzkoa (Aspegi) are concerned about the visibility of women entrepreneurs, and for this reason they are working for professional recognition – this would be a good fact, that they are recognized professionally – and representativeness, and that women are more represented. The members of Aspegi also ask that paternalism not be exercised with them, which often leads to no promotion being offered to them, because it is assumed that family burdens will prevent them from accepting it. Mr Urkullu, at this point, we do not need to go further into Law 4/2005 of 18 February for the Equality of Women and Men, as we all know it. Our Equality Act establishes a number of powers and functions to promote and strengthen the social, economic and political position of women, in which the administration of the Autonomous Community has a fundamental role. We would like you to inform us about the integration of the court that has ruled the recognitions, and whether it complies with section 20 of the Equality Act. Also, in addition to the integration of the court itself, we would like to know what concrete measures are being taken to end this obvious invisibility of women entrepreneurs. They've been turning themselves in for years, and there's been no recognition for women entrepreneurs for years. Of the last nine years, in 2009, six men were awarded; in 2010, six men; in 2011, four men; in 2012, five men; in 2013, four men; in 2014, four men; in 2015, four men; in 2016, here they had to contact the fourth power to see if they found women somewhere, and they really recognized two women and two men; in 2017 we returned to the figures before, four men. Mr Urkullu, it is time for the Basque Government to reflect and review all this and to take an example, and not to take part in those awards where women are not visible and where they are not awarded. Take equality policies seriously, and get to the task, because we think this is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u47	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u48	Mrs Arana, I would ask you not to banish certain questions or the interventions of the lehendakari, saying or putting in my mouth what I have not said. Mrs Arana, allow me to address you with due respect to tell you that what I have said is that it is true that most award-winning people are men, but in the award-giving it has been found that in many cases those who continue these projects today are women, and that I am therefore convinced that the number of women entrepreneurs nominated and awarded will increase. In any case, I would like to reiterate that I share your concern, Mrs Arana. And I have no doubt that it is also shared by the organizing foundation, as well as by the associations that take part and by all the Basque companies. I too would like employers' associations, employers' organizations, as well as the foundation, to be, as they are the only ones who can present candidates, who will also present candidates in the following years. In any case, the Basque Government was firmly committed to equality, and the role of Basque women entrepreneurs must be recognized. And we do so as a government, to the extent that it is our responsibility, with the associations of women entrepreneurs themselves. It is necessary to increase its visibility – and I share it – also in the business sphere, and I have no doubt that there are many women in Euskadi who deserve this award for their professional career and business career. They are worthy of these Korta prizes, and I am convinced that they will receive them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of the members of Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector to the President, concerning the activities of scientific investigations and technology developments." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u50	Good morning, and thank you. Estate has published an investment in research and development. As we see in the chart, it is continually descending since 2012, as well as 3% of the European strategy, which is further and further away. What's the president's opinion?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u51	Thank you, ma'am. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Madam, I am of your opinion, too. Investigation and development in the subject is a strategic column. And we have this responsibility from the first day, that is, 2013. year (s) year by year. I must say, what was the starting-point or whence it came from. We must confess that in 2013 we didn't have our budget, but that we extended from 2012, and even more, $1,100 million less in the year 2013. That year we had 1,100 million less, and when we were in perfect crisis, the Euskalion established prioritys and established education, health, and social armor as a priority to guarantee, and we confirmed them. At the same time, as the facts show clearly, we have since increased the investment of inquiry and development, and these are data; In 2014, 370 million euros, 2015. 376 million a year, 2016 386, 411 this year, and next year it will be 433. So, from now on, we said we'd raise at least 5% a year, and we're engaged in 5% of the budget. Our commitment is to continue increasing that investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u54	Well, it is known that R & D investment costs reflect the industrial structure of economies: they reflect the industrial weight, they also reflect the weight of knowledge-intensive sectors, as well as research capabilities. In any case, here in what we were talking about we were referring to the commitment of 3% overall, where obviously the Basque Government is at least recently increasing investment, but we are referring to what is the approach to the global. We have to reach 3% by 2020. The question is, shall we? Because also when we compare values, or even when they are also compared with the rest of the state, to which I also wish it to go very well, we also have to compare the specific weight of the data of the gross domestic product, of the industrial part of the gross domestic product. Because, while in the Basque Country it is 24,4, in the Spanish state as a whole it has a weight of 15,5 %. That's why comparisons have to be made between equals. Nor do they have the weight of the industrial gross domestic product we have here in Europe, but the figures reached are 2.03 %. The same objective is not set in Slovakia, which has a target of 1.2 or Germany, which has a target of 3 %, depending precisely on what the weight of the industry is. Euskadi's data, of 1.82% of gross domestic product, are moving away not only from the European average, because they are also moving away from those of the euro area, which are larger, of 2,12, and of course from Germany. And it is not only that we have lost percentage of investment in relation to gross domestic product; it is that we are also losing investment in global terms, and research staff. And besides we have to compare, we believe, always with the best. Germany is very close to the 3% target, and knows that it did so mainly in two stages: at the end of the 1990s, and at the end of 2000. Targets How were they achieved as well? With a lot of effort in public investment, right, and certainly far superior to what was done in the OECD. That's where we think we have a certain comparison. But, of course, the issue is global. With an industrial weight of 24,4 what are we going to do? Because also the data we have – the data we have in Orkestra's report, for example – tells us that more than half of the companies carrying out R & D activities do so only occasionally, and that the number of companies carrying out R & D activities has decreased. The Basque company's 2016 overview report also told us that the sectors listed by the OECD as medium-low and low technological level, or even with no added value, reach 70%, while we only have 25.5% in medium-high and only 4.4 in high value industrial activities. This is our industrial structure. And what we are asking is what this government is proposing to reach 3%. The approach is up to them! Evidently, achieving this is not only in your hands. The industrial sector, the public sector and higher education have to contribute to this. And I also foresee – because it is usual – that it will give me a multitude of program names, and it is true that resources have increased (5.225 million until 2020), but the strategy is basically the same since the 1980s. Names change, but initiatives little. The limitations of a continuous industrial policy will lead us to follow in these R & D+i values, and we certainly believe..., and we invite you to carry out an industrial policy that we believe is fundamental to rethink, if we want to reach the value of 3%. The industrial policy designed for the 1980s was created for that crisis. We believe that we need to design an industrial policy now in line with the needs of R & D+i, an industrial policy with sectoral diagnosis and with these aspects. That is why the question is what this Government is going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u55	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mrs Larion, the answer to the list of plans could be predictable or predictable, but I am not going to do so. In the same way that I say that the question is neither predictable nor predictable when it is formulated in one way and then goes out to the atril to say something else. In any case, I believe that there is no discrepancy, and my opinion coincides with yours: investment in research and development is a strategic pillar of the present and future of Euskadi. And in the data relative, to which you have also made a mention of past, but relative, that you use there are three investment components: Basque Government... When we speak of "we" it gives the impression that it is the Basque Government to whom we refer, and when we speak of "we" I believe that in this matter we must refer to the Basque Government, the State Administration and companies. The Basque Government has increased investment every year since the first budget approved in 2014, and I repeat the data: 370 million, 376, 386, 411 and 433 million next year. And we have committed to increase this figure by 5% every year until 2020, and the Basque Government will comply. The second component is that of the General Administration of the State, and it is necessary to recover the levels of investment in Euskadi. Let us not forget that projects, or part of Basque research projects, are financed through state competitive programmes. And the third component to which you have also referred is the company, the company itself. And in these years companies have had to prioritize investments and spending more in the short term, at a time when they faced the risk of their own survival. And this has to be taken into account. Not all jobs destroyed by the crisis and levels of business investment in research and development have yet been recovered. It is therefore necessary that private business finance, which accounts for 60% of the total, re-place research and development as a priority objective. We work together to achieve this within the framework of the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. Today, Euskadi remains, however, the state community that invests most in R & D. Isn't that enough? Should we improve it? The PCTI is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "About my position in the trial against the assailants of EIB, against the Alsatsu, as the member of the Basque Society." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. As we say in the justification of the question, last week, according to the date of the trial against the accused for assaulting two civilian guards and their partners for the mere fact of being so, which occurred on October 15, 2016, the ETB1 program "Egun on Euskadi" gave up almost half an hour to give voice to the lawyer of several of the aggressors, to the father of one of them and to several contractors, all of them in favor of those aggressors. ETB gave its program some content, in favour of those responsible for an aggression that has very concrete connotations, an aggression that must be framed in the alde hemendik. And why do I ask you the question, Mr. Lehendakari? Firstly, because if I ask the Councillor for Culture probably tell me that the Basque Government has nothing to say, and secondly because you have committed yourself, you have committed your Government to the delegitimization of violence, to the defence of democratic values, to the defence of coexistence. And in that defence, Mr Lehendakari, we believe that you, and your Government, should use all the means at your disposal. And ETB, through the program contract signed with her, can be one of those means. And there is something that worries us, because in many cases we have denounced in this very rostrum that ETB at the moment is a transmission belt, a spokesman for the Basque Government. That is why we are particularly concerned that ETB is taking these kinds of positions, positions that are also not short-term, that are structural. And we are concerned because these are the positions of your Government? Are these your positions, Mr Lehendakari? How do you appreciate that the positions of the Alsasua aggressors have been strengthened since ETB? How do you rate these attacks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u59	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u60	President andrea, legebiltzarkideok, egun on guztioi. I'm sorry, Mrs. Llanos, but you're going to have to settle with me. I believe, Mrs Llanos, that it is not the lehendakari to whom you should ask this question. By the decision of this Parliament, our public radio and television group has its monitoring and monitoring bodies, and the Government is not one of them. We invite you to ask your question on the EITB Board of Directors, of which you are a member, or on the EITB Parliamentary Committee, of which you are also a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u62	Thanks again. I didn't expect another answer, but the truth is it's unheard of. First of all, on the board of directors, its decisions or deliberations make it very clear that they are discreet and that public opinion is not given, and I believe that this issue is something that public opinion should be aware of. But in addition, I will tell you, the Basque Government contributes 90% of EITB's budget, and it does so because it has a programme contract with EITB in which it commits, among other things – and I quote literally – to "covering the information axes in favour of collective awareness committed to non-violence, in the face of the injustice of ETA terrorism and any other form of similar violence". Do you really believe that with such content this commitment is fulfilled? Do you really have nothing to say about the content of the programme, that a programme of some sort should be made, in favour of those responsible for aggression with very specific connotations? Do you really believe that this programme corresponds to the principles and values that must be defended in a public environment? What would it have seemed to you that from Telemadrid there would have been, for example, a programme in favour of those responsible for the death of Aitor Zabaleta, that young Basque man who was killed simply for going to encourage his team? And I'll tell you what would have looked like to us: shameful, shameful. In the same way that we are ashamed of some of the contents of EITB. But it looks like you guys don't care. Because we are not faced with a cyclical fact, we are faced with a structural fact: we have had to see in ETB, as contertulios, at ages, at ages making loas of other ages. ETB has now abandoned the principles of the Law on the Creation of the Entity, principles for coexistence, principles for peace. He's abandoned them. And in the face of that, do you really have nothing to say, Mr. Counselor? Does the Basque Government have anything to say? Then who?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u63	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your time is up... Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u64	Mrs Llanos, I believe in the autonomy of EITB, and I will try to be respectful with it. I don't identify with those who spend the day talking about EITB's autonomy, then try to interfere with it all the time. Nor do I share the attitude of some political representative of his party, who has announced that if he wins the elections in Catalonia he will shut down public television and make a new TV with "normal" people. That's what he said. I mean, I hope you don't win, for everyone's sake, and I also hope you don't consider all Basque public television workers abnormal. And I'm going to do something that you haven't done, and I'm going to do it out of professional respect to those who do the "Egun on Euskadi" program. I have asked the Director General to pass the question you did not want to ask on the board of directors. By the way, the council met last Tuesday, and it is not known that you raised that question there. If you want, I'll give you the answer I've been sent, so you'll have first-hand information to prepare the question and do it where you should do it. In any case, there are three points of that answer that I want to rescue here. First, says EITB's note: "The 'Egun on Euskadi' programme did not give any opinion on what happened between an Altsasu youth group and the Civil Guard. The programme and its commentators focused on the seriousness of the requests for sentences made by the investigating judge." Second: "The program never adopted any editorial position on the functions that the Civil Guard has or does not have." And third: "At no time was reference made to the Alde Hemendik campaign that you quote in your written question that you sent us." So far the version of the director general of EITB and of the professionals who have the responsibility to make the program "Egun on Euskadi", in case you really want to know it. And if you'll excuse me, Mrs. Llanos, I'll give you two tips. The first, show a little respect for the autonomy and professionalism of EITB journalists. And, secondly, do not rush, let judicial times run out, and wait for justice to do its job, before condemning anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u65	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that María del lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the member of the Popula team, made to the head of the economics and the sub-gulden departments, as to the general regulations against the Juridical Council of Euskacia." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u66	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, counselors. Madam Counsellor, by order of 6 June 2017, you submit to the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission the draft decree establishing the estimated values for specimens of wild fauna, a mandatory opinion under Law 9/2004 of 24 November of the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission, as it is a draft regulatory provision that is issued in implementation of Article 66 of the Basque Country Hunting Act 2/2011. The opinion concludes that the draft decree is unfavourable, as the Basque Government lacks the competence to carry out the proposed regulation. Madam Counsellor, is it your discretion to adopt general provisions even if the Legal Advisory Commission is of the opinion that it lacks competence?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u67	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u68	Mr. President, Congressman and chief officers, good morning. Ms. Lopez de Ocarariz, the answer to your question is clear and clear. You said – and you said it strictly – that the opinion of the Legal Advisory Commission in this case is mandatory. However, any general provision, in addition to the approach of the Legal Advisory Commission, meets the approach of the Office of Economic Control, both criteria. And, in the face of any warning that results in a negative report, it is not processed, the processing that we are commenting on is not successful until the correction is made to the warnings that appear there, both in one and the other of the procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u70	Madam Counsellor, the first final provision of the Basque Country Hunting Act states that "the regulatory development of this Act shall be the responsibility of the outlying institutions of the historical territories in all that it has not expressly attributed to the common institutions of the Basque Country Autonomous Community". The second final provision states that "the Basque Government, within one year of the entry into force of this law, shall adopt the necessary regulatory rules for its development, only in those areas in which the law itself has given it specific powers to do so". The Basque Government needs specific legal authorization to regulate hunting. Such authorizations are provided for by law to regulate the following aspects: proof of fitness to obtain the hunting license, registration of infringements, kinegetic species, prohibition of hunting with certain breeds of dogs, establishment of a commission for the approval of hunting trophies, and hunting census. It is shown that the Basque Government is not empowered to regulate articles 65 and 66, and if that had been the will of the legislator, the law would provide for such an authorization, as it has done in the previous articles and matters I have told you. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, it gives me the impression that you are deaf to the unfavorable opinion of the Legal Advisory Commission, no matter what the committee says. And you also told me and referred me to what the Office of Economic Control says. The Office of Economic Control in the law of development of energy sustainability, or sustainability, has told you that you do not have an economic report, and you have not listened to what the office said. It has failed, and has not submitted an economic report under the conditions requested of it by the Office of Economic Control. There is no limit to his uncontrolled desire to usurp skills to the right and wrong, to then neglect his responsibilities, as we saw in the previous full of control, not offering the courses of the certificates of specialty of the year 2017, leaving to his luck to the people of the sea; competition that he recognizes in the memory of the budgets, year after year. You came to say that I was almost responsible for not offering those courses, right? Madam Councillor, I have the impression that you are losing the oremus in some respects, and, as the Councillor for Culture said now, I ask you, Madam Councillor, to show respect for the competences of the other bodies, in this case of the outside bodies of the territories, of the parliaments, and in other cases of the Government of Spain, that you, when you can, try to usurp competences that do not fall within your competence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u71	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u72	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. López de Ocariz, it comes to you very well to stand in this rostrum and talk about anything other than the question you were asking me. Referring to the decree you were commenting on, it was the outlaws themselves who requested the Basque Government to proceed with this provision. It was the outside parliaments themselves, Mrs López de Ocariz (you weren't at the meeting, were you?), knowing that the competence was also of the deputies. And so it was decided at their request. However, during the process, it is true that the Cojua has reported unfavorably, since it is not a competence of the Basque Government, as we well knew, and in that case there were two options: one, to paralyse the process of the project and that each Member, according to that procedure which had been initiated, should publish its own rule, or, as a second option, to continue with the project in the event that each Member delegates that competence in a dictative manner to the Government. At this point, a decision had to be made, and the decision had been made that each Member through its own decree, which would be jointly, that it would be a three-pronged procedure, respecting the spirit of what had been envisaged. And, therefore, I have to say that the Government has fulfilled its obligation of coordination, it has complied with the will of the outlaws, and under no circumstances... Please, the subject of usurpation may be a little ridiculous. In this case there has been no such thing, but the will of the outlaws has been met, and in this case they will be the ones to deal with it. We are not talking about usurpation, but about the requirement that the corresponding powers and competences be, of course (required in this case to the State), transferred as soon as possible. Since we are talking about transfers, I do not intend to usurp anything, simply that the Statute of Gernika is fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of Economics and Sub-Sergeural Division, about the maintenance of the Euskian Railway in the personal material of the State of SA." Mr. Hérnandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u74	Thank you. Madam Counsellor, I am not going to recriminate you of any usurpation of competences, but I would like (we would like our group) to ask you about an agreement of this House which you know well in relation to the Euskotren company and the question of the maintenance of the mobile units and the mobile material of the Euskotren company. That agreement, a GNP approved by this Parliament, was motivated by the concern and mobilization of the workers themselves of the public enterprise, who see their future at risk, see the future of maintenance, of their workload with the company's own staff at risk. My question is... Two years after that agreement of this Parliament, those agreements have not been complied with, most of that agreement, and therefore my question is why those agreements of this Parliament are not complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u76	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Herndez, I must first say that we sometimes surprise them, because this subject is already answered, I have nothing to say but to repeat. As you said, in a session held on February 18, 2015, the non-legislative proposal to which you referred was approved, but that has not only happened. From there, on 8 June 2015 – as I am sure you also know – the Euskotren management reached an agreement with the Standing Committee that updated the 2010 agreement to which that GNP referred, and guaranteed on the one hand the existing template on that date, in addition to a commitment for 2018, and also referred to the maintenance of certain units (the 900 series), not only in the short term, but also in the long term. This also made it possible for the social side to put aside the problem of labour conflict that existed, and therefore the GNP is perfectly fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Hernandez jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u78	Good. I asked the oral question because the written answer did not solve what we wanted to know. It is not true that those agreements were fulfilled, as well as not just talking about it. And the fact that we are here today asking for this, which is logically motivated by the concern of the workers, which is still in force today, is proof that those agreements were not implemented. It is true that there was a new agreement with the trade unions, in which the trade unions were left behind and the agreements signed by the Basque Government in 2010 could no longer be complied with. But it is that these agreements, new agreements signed with the unions, where hair was already left behind, are also not going to be fulfilled. And the workers are really worried, because they're convinced they're not going to comply. These agreements state that by 2018 (i.e. within one month) there would be a structural workforce of 80 workers, or 90% of them (72), by 2018. The time required to fill these places is already practically impossible for them to be carried out. The workers are therefore afraid that, once again, not only this Parliament's agreement will be complied with, but for the second time the agreement with the workers themselves. And that takes away a lot of legitimacy from the management of the public company Euskotren, and in our opinion also from the department, because not to comply with the agreements that one is able to reach removes legitimacy. But we were especially concerned that in your written question you ensure that the workers have been given the necessary training to be placed in the future 2019 in any of the possible scenarios, and that the company makes a decision in any of the possible scenarios. One of these possible scenarios is that of the total subcontracting of the workers in charge of the maintenance of mobile equipment of the public company Euskotren, because it is something that we have not invented, but that is already happening: nowadays, they are subcontract workers of the supplier company, it is true that through the contracts, but it is the workers who are doing and are gradually replacing the workload of the workers themselves. Therefore, these workers are very concerned, and in our view what is happening is a covert privatization. And we would like it not to be so and this government could really say it is not so, but today workers of a subcontract from a private company are doing the work of public workers, in addition to the public infrastructure paid for by everyone. And the conflict with the workers is not over. They stopped those mobilizations because they reached that agreement, but that agreement has not been fulfilled and it seems that it will not be fulfilled. The workers are very concerned, and surely the conflictivity will come back soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u80	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Hernandez, you were telling me that the workers have left hairs on the gurney. In a collective negotiation or in any kind of negotiation both parties have to give in, both parties, in order to reach an agreement, as you certainly know. As for the commitment signed in 2018, you talked about the minimum structural staff of 80 people (i.e.) for work in the area of maintenance and railway material, all at collective agreement levels. And we were also talking about having covered 90% of those structural vacancies (i.e. at least 72), which will be covered by fixed staff. That's what he remembered. And it was also agreed that once the current maintenance contract – which was also known to exist – of the 900 series is completed, and the trains reach the start time of the long-cycle maintenance – not the short-cycle maintenance, which is what we now have – it will be carried out by our own staff. That's how it was done and that's how it's going to be done, don't have the slightest doubt. And in the third aspect I have to tell you that, on the one hand, if you look at the Euskotren budgets well, the 2018 budgets that have been approved by the Governing Council and referred to this House, in Chapter I of the supporting memorandum of that draft budgets is the increase in the railway mobile maintenance staff up to the 80 posts that were set. It's there, in the budgets. Look at you. However, it is clear that the will to sign the collective agreement is being fulfilled, and will continue to be fulfilled. And at the moment, when the new collective agreement is opened up, each and every agreement that is reached will also be implemented. That's our will. And in a public enterprise jobs must be associated with a staff, of course, but also with a budget, and our maximum will is reflected in that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask questions, Maider Ottagoria Tolosa EH Collectoral Laws made for Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing Department, public rent housing for funding and banking." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, counselor. November 23rd, 2018-20 Housing was an introduction to the director of the Plan. I'd say a better presentation of the direct plan, but well... They say that this plan will take a new step to an effective and patient access to the housing. The object of this performance, in your words, was to describe the main lines identified by the housing police during that period, but I don't want to talk about this plan in general today. We've requested your scene on the committee, and we'll have plenty of chance to talk about it. In this exposition several strategic axises were introduced, and, according to what has been said, several of the initiatives were suggested for the establishment of the housing park. In the meantime, to attract private initiative to the distribution funds, pensions, insurances with non-committal and financial institutions for the neglect of the housing. Another statement also called our attention. Between the measures in which the rent was increased, it is stated that housing is already a notification of law that associations which have no intention of profit are to promote or to acquire groups of habitations in the government of use. We couldn't go to that presentation, we had an entire meeting that morning, but it's been very striking how much it's been picked up in different presss by the headlines, and they've caused our real concern. So, do you think rental housing is a effective measure for the housing suite in the park opening the rental housing to the funds and the banks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u83	Thank you, Madam Mount. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u84	Thank you, President. Mrs Otamendi, we estimate that over 18,000 living units could have access to the subjective right to housing until 2025. To this day, as you know, the government runs a park around or more than 12,000 homes, which is occupied. The means at our disposal – apart from the economic housing benefit – to meet this demand are the rotation in the public park, the recovery of the pace of construction of social housing and endowment housing, estimated at around 800 dwellings per year, and the capture of more vacant dwellings from private owners. You make numbers, and you'll see it seems hard to get the bills out. We want more housing for social rent to meet the needs of the citizenry, and the ideal option would be to have a sufficient public park, but since we do not have it, nor will we have it in the short to medium term, we do not close to looking for other possibilities that allow to offer housing for rent to those who need it and those who have the right to it. That's right, always with very clear criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u86	This is a fine excuse for justifying these operations: that the increase of public hire, and the increase of the revenues of the public housing, which are employed in hire. Oh, come on. It is not possible that the means which lead to pretty houses are constantly determined by the money of Nikolay into private pockets, and the chances of the possibility of the latter are constantly followed by one another. For 50 years, you're engaged in an investment fund or banking in a $600 rent? In 50 years, 360.000 for each apartment? Suppose, of course, that for 50 years the rent won't come up. Ours, a billion of people from the public housing leases for 360 million? Please! Or the homes which the investors and banks haven't sold or hired for a long time could be 6250 years in order to compromise us? The American people's houses were indemnized? Even the houses of those who left them in the street? Shouldn't we ask the financial institutions we rescued with the public funds to direct the housing, which is empty, to the social needs? Look, we have to increase the public housing park, which is on the way to rent, it's clear. I think no one denies it. Money is needed, yes, and if you're short of money to bring you to this, it's because of the impossibility of this government. First, because you mark other prior priorities, including you as a part of this government. We'd be clear where we could get rid of it, to push a lot more money to some pretty flats. And on the other hand, if you want to have more money available in your budgets, do it, do it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u87	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u88	Mrs. Otamendi, let us not go into easy clichés, nor invent tales of fear. What we are looking for are formulas to have enough housing to meet the needs of the demand we have in Alokabide and the development of subjective housing law. With the Bizigune program we offer private owners an income guaranteed by their home. Is it wrong for you to do it? If we had offers from the banks to rent houses of your property under the conditions of the Bizigune program, would it seem bad to you? Would it be wrong for you that for example Elkarkidetza, or Itzarri, or Geroa, or investment funds managed by Kutxabank or Caja Laboral, could invest in promoting social housing for rent in exchange for a guaranteed, moderate and prolonged profitability over time? Would that seem wrong? For it is operations like these that we refer to when we are talking about exploring new ways to finance social housing for rent. And this has been explained to you in the meetings that the Vice-Housing Councillor has had with Euskal Herria Bildu. What are the criteria to which this possible alternative formulas would have to be adjusted? One, making possible an increase in the supply of rental housing, without diminishing public assets; two, that the costs are reasonable; three, that the management of the housing stock remains public; four, that the award of these floors is carried out by Etxebide, with the criteria established for the whole public rental; five, that the amount of income to be paid by the tenants is calculated and revised as hitherto, according to the income of the family unit. Does that sound bad to you? Does that sound bad to you? Logically, we have to add efforts, unite alternatives and possibilities. The challenge we have is very important, and to meet that challenge all the means we can count on and have will be necessary, and I do not know if it is enough. Therefore, what I believe is that we need to be reasonable, to know that the objectives set by the Housing Act are very ambitious objectives, but we need to have the means to put them into practice, from the budget, of course, and also relying on the possibilities that the market can offer us, in order to help achieve those objectives. Because, in short, the important thing is to meet the needs of the people and to be able to put on the market social rental housing according to the income of the families who demand them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies of Julen Bollain Urbieta together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Ogas and Economics, about the form of the tribute." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, chiefs of departments, underset you, good morning. Well, today I will try to be brief and stick to corporate tax, because, as the spokesman of our parliamentary group, Lander Martínez, has already said, we will ask for a full monograph on taxation in which we can address more issues. I believe that no one in this Parliament escapes the importance of fair taxation and progressive taxation in a democracy. I don't think I'll find out anything new from them either. Louis Bandreis, judge of the U.S. Supreme Court, said at the beginning of the last century: "We can have democracy or concentrated wealth, but we can never have both." All kinds of reports, whoever makes them, point out something unquestionable: that in Euskadi, as in the rest of the OECD countries, with the unfair management that has been made today of the crisis, today the great fortunes are greater and are concentrated in less hands. One of the main instruments that democratic governments have to deal with this unjust reality is precisely fiscal policy, i.e. taxation paid by citizens. And there is another reality that is also irrevocable: in Euskadi the expenditure that the public administrations do does not bear it by capital, it is borne by the workers. In Euskadi the budgets of our institutions support them not those who have more, but a majority of Basques and Basques who charge a modest payroll at the end of the month. This Wednesday his Government reached an agreement with the People's Party to introduce changes in taxation, in exchange for budget support. Do these changes in taxation help to reverse the previous situation? The answer is no. And they even deepen them. And this is not the first time, Mr Azpiazu, that we have asked you about this issue. In fact, a few months ago we agreed on a number of issues: we agreed that there was a need for in-depth tax reform and not for small changes; that the tax burden on corporate tax had to be raised, which, in your opinion, was already lower than in the rest of the state or in Europe. However, Mr Azpiazu, you and the Government to which you are a party have done just the opposite not only of what they were saying, but of what Euskadi and his economy needs. You have preferred to claudiate before the employer, and have let him impose your rules of play. That is why they have agreed to lower corporate tax on companies, as Confebask said. Mr Azpiazu, I will not tire of repeating this, but it is you who has been saying for more than six months, over and over again, both to Confebask and to Cebek, that it was necessary to increase the tax burden on corporate tax. You. And I fear, Mr Azpiazu, that the PSE is not the only one who has swallowed the frog in this tax reduction. I understand that you do not like it either, but today you have to defend it here before this House. The tax burden on corporate tax in Euskadi is scandalously low. It accounts for 1.7% of gross domestic product, while in the State it accounts for 2.4%, and in Europe it accounts for 2.6%. And this problem comes from afar, it comes from 2007. At that time the company tax contributed 14,7 % of what was collected by Basque farms, and in 2016 it was only 7,7 %, half. And on top of it you're going to lower it further. Mr Azpiazu, the data are truly disturbing. The effective rate of corporation tax in Euskadi is 19,6 %; an effective rate away from the nominal rate of 28 % we currently have, but you are going to lower the nominal rate. I know, Mr. Azpiazu, that you agree with me. And I know that because you have expressed it on several occasions; as I said, even in response to the Basque employer or the Vizcaine employer. And you had a chance to change all this. You had the opportunity, and you, Mr. Azpiazu, had the will to do so, but your arm was twisted. And it has been twisted by the People's Party, the employer and his intimate enemy, Mr. Rementeria. They had the opportunity, and they preferred to choose the easy way. Mr Azpiazu, just as I applauded you when you were one of the first people who opened the melon of fiscal reform in Euskadi, and I have repeatedly told you that if you wanted to make a real fiscal reform, fair, redistributive and progressive, you would count on our parliamentary group, I must say that I am deeply disappointed with what you have agreed with the People's Party. The objective of the People's Party has always been very clear; in this matter they have never been hidden, nor have they tried to confuse people. Their intention will always be to lower taxes to those they have the most and to make big companies pay less and less. That is, less tax pressure for those who can pay more. And then it is when citizens do not understand anything, because the same advisor who believes that the tax burden on corporate tax should be increased signs an agreement with the economic spokesman of the People's Party, who wants to reduce the tax burden, and so Mr Damborenea has expressed as active and passive. I would tell you something about the PSE, but the truth is that it has been irrelevant in this negotiation, so let's not waste time with them. Mr Azpiazu, is there any report by the Tax Coordination Body on the effects of the agreement reached on tax policy in this country? Because there is something that would really hurt the citizenry, when two people who three months ago asked exactly the opposite now sit at a table next to Mrs Berriozabal of the Basque Nationalist Party, and sign it is not finished knowing exactly what. And there's also Mrs. Castelo, who happened to be there too. And I do not want to talk about the Socialist Party of Euskadi, but it does not stop having a recess that only a month ago Mrs Mendia or Mr Totorika said that they would never accept the discount of the nominal type of corporation tax, which was a red line, and look at you from where. Look where you're going! Mr Azpiazu, I conclude with a simple question: with this tax reduction that you have agreed with the People's Party, is the tax burden on corporate tax going to be higher, or lower, than so far? I mean, are companies going to pay more or less for their profits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u92	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Bollain, two priors. One, he tells me that Mr. Rementeria is my enemy. No, no, Enemies are also only in wars. Mr. Rementeria is the deputy general of Bizkaia, and he also happens to be a friend of mine. Another preview. He says, "You have signed an agreement (which you do not know what it is: I will send it back to you) with the People's Party." Yes, we have signed it, but because you did not want to sign any agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party or this government to support the budget and that Basque citizens have the budgets for 2018. These are preliminary issues. Of course, if the House is to process or celebrate the full monograph we will have the opportunity to speak again, but it gives the impression, Mr Bollain, that with you it is very difficult to speak, or at least it is difficult to understand. We have, indeed, as you say, been talking about this subject many times, and we have not understood each other. Let's see if this interpellation serves us well. I will answer your question by being all very aware, because I think we have to be very aware that last Tuesday an agreement on fiscal matters has been reached between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, an agreement that will be transferred to the general boards of the three historic territories for the purpose of approving the corresponding outside rules. Mr. Bollain, it is impossible to answer to the interference you have made me, not to consider on Tuesday the agreement between PP, PSE, and the Jestle Party of the United States of our community. This is reality, and that is what will be reflected in the great assemblies of historical regions. Because that is where tax decisions should be made, and it would be where you, or rather the joint group of your political formation, should ask whether you want to obtain greater satisfaction with the issues that you are asking me here today. The fiscal pact reached is solid, realistic and positive, as it provides us with stability, which is the common good of Basque society, and guarantees that we can continue to provide public services and promote the economic revival of Euskadi. I will answer this question by being very aware also of the explanations I have already offered in this House, and on this very question, on 6 October and 3 November. He asks me whether the Basque Government is going to promote a comprehensive tax reform within the Tax Coordination Body that increases collection and explores possibilities of increasing the tax burden on corporate tax. It is a fact, as I have already recalled at the beginning of my speech, that there is a political agreement on the amendment of our fiscal rules, which will take shape soon, and I can assure you that the institutions that make up the Tax Coordination Body and its representatives have been an active part of this process. Therefore, I believe that the institutions which participate in the Eucharistic Cesta Institution have contributed to the whole process. I also believe that the changes of taxes admitted will bring security and new income to our stocks. And I think it is a reform that will bring not only fiscal certainty, but also, but resources, which you are so concerned about, and I too, Mr Bollain. In April of this year, the foreign parliaments of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa presented at their respective general meetings the evaluation of the tax reform adopted at the end of 2013; reform that occurred following the agreement between the same political parties that have now agreed on this new tax action (i.e. the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party). And they also announced that the three outlaws were working together on the design of the draft foral standard of tax measures that would adjust and improve the current foral standard. And finally all this work has borne fruit. The reform incorporates measures of different taxes, but focusing on corporate tax, to which you refer, what is intended is to ensure the balance between a tax that must try to encourage economic activity and generate quality employment, on the one hand, and to guarantee the main function that corresponds to a tax, which is to be collected, on the other. I have already explained this on previous occasions. He had to have aurretik and he had a bider. I think it is important to clarify that this tax consists of different elements, being one of them, indeed the nominal rate. Lehendakari told his spokesman Lander Martínez this morning. But it is not the only element, nor the one that decides the collection of the estates. Flaco favor we do to society if as public representatives we do not speak clear! Taxation is a complex issue, it is true, where there is a tendency to keep the round figures. This has happened in the tax debate with the nominal rate of this tax: the 28, the 25, the 24... But it is also true that the nominal rate of tax does not correspond to the actual rate, as you very well know, that is, with what companies actually pay for their profits. The nominal rate is altered by a series of measures covered by the company tax, which allow the final collection to be increased or reduced. The measures which will be presented, and which will receive sufficient support at the relevant general meetings of each of the historic territories thanks to the agreement adopted this week, follow the current European trends on fairer and more efficient taxation. It must also be said, that the rules which are allowed in the grand assemblies, follow the European propensities, and the wills, in order to obtain a more equal and more direct prosecution. You can still join the agreement in general meetings, and I also encourage you to do so. It's good for Euskadi, really. Do you think we would support her if she wasn't good for Euskadi? Of course not! It's good for Euskadi, believe me. This word ("fair and efficient taxation") has been repeated over and over again by European bodies and international bodies. I have already pointed out to you myself on some occasion. In addition to changing the nominal rate, the agreement introduces a number of measures with the aim of incorporating the EU's agreed regulation into the tax system. Among them, the most important is the incorporation into the tax system of the regulation contained in Council Directive 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. I believe that you too will be concerned about avoiding circumvention; I certainly will. Always with the objective of meeting the obligations arising from the fiscal framework promoted in international forums, such as the OECD, in the areas of prevention of tax avoidance, erosion of tax bases and artificial transfer of business profits. We are concerned about those issues, and I hope that you too. It also includes measures that have already been worked on at European level. Thus, it limits the compensation of negative tax bases; it limits the application of deductions and the exemption for reinvestment only to fixed assets for the purpose of the economic activity of the company; it adapts the deduction for job creation, linking to the quality of the job and its salary... These are just a few examples of the small letter of this reform, which ultimately dampen the negative impact that the fall in the nominal rate could have. We have focused the debate, both political and media, on the nominal rate of tax, for good and for bad, but, we value it as we value it, we must be aware that the reduction of the nominal rate can generate positive expectations in companies that allow them to settle in the territory, on the one hand, and boost activity and employment, on the other. I think that is also of interest to you, the reorganisation of businesses and the creation of activity and employment. And both issues are of enormous importance to Euskadi. We cannot, Mr Bollain, nor should we fall into simplistic tax approaches. We must be aware of our reality, and of the importance of our companies investing and contributing to society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u93	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u94	Mr Azpiazu, you tell me that the agreement is good for Euskadi. I ask who in Euskadi for. The agreement is good for the employer, who is applauding the agreement. The agreement is good for a minority of people in Euskadi, who are the ones who have the most. This agreement is not good for workers. This agreement is not good for the redistribution of wealth. This agreement is not good for a large social majority who lives in increasingly worse conditions here in Euskadi. Look, Mr Azpiazu, when our parliamentary group raised last year the need to talk about tax reform, about taxation, when negotiating the 2017 budgets, both you and the lehendakari gave us a bad deal. A non-rotundo. That one thing was budgets and another thing was taxation, that we didn't mix barbecues with merinas. What made you change your mind now? What made them change their minds? They could have agreed with the progressive forces of this Parliament (there is a progressive majority in this Parliament) on a real tax reform, which would increase the already low tax burden, as we have said before, which is on the profits of companies. However, they have decided to do so, six months later, with the People's Party and their eagerness to grant tax cuts to those who have the most. And, Mr. Azpiazu, honestly I tell you, there's something in this agreement that I don't understand. And I'm really telling you, I don't understand. I don't understand. And that you don't answer what I'm asking you to do makes it come to my head that saying, "Think bad and you'll be right." And I do not understand it, Mr Azpiazu, because you insisted just before summer, and I quote literally, on the "need to increase the tax burden on corporation tax to maintain public services". And yet, its partners in this agreement, the People's Party, have been deepening the need to do just the opposite, to lower taxes on profit companies for months. And now you don't answer me if they raise the tax burden or if they lower it. And it does not because you do not want to admit in this House, before this Parliament, that fiscal pressure and corporate tax collection will be undermined. Mr Azpiazu, said Mr Oyarzabal on the same Wednesday that they managed to convince, he said, "to convince the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party of the need to lower fiscal pressure on corporate tax." Could you answer me if it is true what Mr Oyarzabal says, and you have closed the door to the People's Party and the employer, by agreeing to a reduction in fiscal pressure, Mr Azpiazu? Because, if not, I will honestly think that someone is lying here, and without a precedent, I don't think it's the People's Party. Because Mr Urkullu, in the previous question put by the spokesman for our parliamentary group, by Lander Martínez, has also not mentioned the fiscal pressure. Really, Mr. Azpiazu, it's incomprehensible and I don't understand. Why have you not answered to what effect this agreement will have on the corporate tax burden? Mr Azpiazu, it is absurd to sign a tax agreement with the People's Party without you being able to answer in this House what effect it will have. It is absurd to sign a tax agreement with the People's Party without a report from the Tax Coordination Body on this matter. Mr Azpiazu, I tell you clearly, you have not answered me because you do not want to admit to this House that this time you have agreed to take forward the budgets with the People's Party in exchange for a tax cut. Mr Azpiazu, you know as well as I do that the People's Party has welcomed this fiscal agreement, and you do not answer me because you do not want to admit that this time you have agreed the budgets with the People's Party in exchange for a tax rebate. Yes, it is a tax cut to the people who have the most money, and you are still unanswered because you do not want to admit to this House that that is precisely what you have agreed with the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u95	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u96	Mr Bollain, you say the same regardless of what the measures are or what the content of the agreement is! That makes it difficult for conversation and debate to try to reach a consensus, doesn't it? I welcome the agreement. It is the agreement that the parties have reached that I have previously commented on in the body in which it must be reached, and now it must be dealt with through the general meetings. You told me about the tax pressure. I tell you that this agreement is going to give more public resources (which, if it gives more public resources, it is understood that the tax burden is going to be higher), it is going to give more investment, and it is going to give more employment. I think that's good. I've tried to explain it to you before and I don't know if you've understood it, because you had the speech prepared to tell me that this is a bad deal with the People's Party, with the issue of budgets and such... Look, this is the agreement that can be reached between parties that can reach agreements. And I repeat to you again that it is very important to be precise, Mr Bollain. It's very important. Following the agreement this Tuesday, it is agreed to propose to the general meetings (for their approval, yes) the reduction of the nominal rates from 28 to 24 for the general rate, and from 24 to 20 for SMEs. This reduction has also been agreed to in two stages, in 2018 and 2019. However, in order to continue to ensure stability in corporate tax collection and even increase it, it has been agreed to intensify the limitations already presented in the public exhibition, and even to take new measures. That is to say, the measures agreed by the political parties and to be adopted at general meetings will allow the Euskadi to have a nominal rate of attractive corporate tax, but at the same time a higher effective rate, and thus increase the tax collection. Of course: increase tax collection, a higher effective rate. In any case, the evolution of corporate tax collection and any other tax cannot be attributed solely to the measures taken, since the main thing for the increase in collection is that precisely these companies have profits. Therefore, the aim has been to balance the corporate tax balance towards a fairer, more modern and in line with European anti-circumvention standards, but without losing attraction or collection. I repeat the following message: the fiscal pact reached is solid, realistic and positive, as it gives us stability, which is a common good of Basque society, and ensures that we can continue to cover the public services and economic recovery of Basques. And it is also very important for everyone to have additional resources that allow us to continue to finance public policies that are demanded by citizens and that must be provided by public institutions. Satisfying both issues, i.e. generating fair expectations for businesses, without leading to a decline in tax resources, is our goal. Quite the contrary, that they involve adequate public resources to deal with social policies, public services, etc., must be and is the objective, and is the objective of the changes agreed in the company tax. I therefore sincerely believe that it is a good agreement and a good tax reform. A necessary agreement and tax reform, and I would say that it is essential. Mr Bollain, I shall now proceed with the next question. Perhaps some of the questions I can tell Mrs Pinedo can also be good for you, because they are about the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpology by Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Collectors to Ogasun and Economics, to the thread of the budgets of 2018 PNV, PSE, and PP. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u98	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. Here I am again, yes. We're still talking about the tax system, the tax collection, and the direct influence of it on public activity. The importance of collecting taxes in order to develop public politics, to promote economics, to create and maintain worthy employments is apparent. The tax is, after all, the most important part of the income required by a strong public sector, which is so essential to construct a well-developed, cohesion, and consolidary society. You know how important it is to have a good enough collection of money, you've often laid it on the table, in fact, on the existence of the margin of tax collecting it, or of increasing its prices. And for that nothing better than small data. The GDP of the Autonomous Community estimated for 2017 is more than €74.4 billion, 10% more than in 2007, but this increase in wealth has not resulted in a greater collection, since the final collection of 2017, estimated, reducing those exceptional revenues, which we have already talked about, is equal to that of 2007. And if we look at the collection of corporate tax, the so-called corporate tax, in 2007 was approximately EUR 2,034 million, and ten years later, with a growing economy, according to data from the Basque Government, they plan to close it with 1,142 million, that is to say, more than 890 million less collection. As long as the collection in the IRPF or VAT rises, as it could not otherwise be, with a GDP rising by 10 %. You know as well as I do, Mr. Counsellor, what you yourself have been saying here in Parliament and in many public interventions, interventions in which you have not hesitated to claim greater tax revenues to support your government's public policies. In February of this same year, after the data of the closing of the collection of the financial year 2016, data that one more year remained very far from the initial forecasts, you yourself indicated that there was room for manoeuvre to raise some taxes. You said that tax pressure is no greater than in the rest of Spain and is less than in Europe, so "you might think there is a way to do something." Text words. Already in May you insisted on the need to increase the fiscal pressure to sustain the public services that you yourself described as "a complaint" of citizens. He added that "the Basque administration finds it difficult to meet the demand for social spending (education and health) as a result of the years of crisis and the moderate growth of public revenues". And you said, "We are not ogre, but when you encounter this problem the logical thing is to pass the beret..." It's true. What you said was a quick answer to the opposite, both from the patrician, and from PP, and in some measure from the different members of your party. In the course of February, the representatives of the Aldudians came out to make it clear that they did not need it for tax reforms and that they must wait until they had examined the results of the reforms of 2013. They introduced the results of this examination, and their conclusion was that the results of the reform of 2013 were useful, and that the established targets were complete, although the facts had not been made clear even in a year. The troubles rejected the deep form of taxation and announced that they would make some adjustments to the system. After the summer they would be presented, according to the might of Gipulia, in the department of permanent improvements necessary to the system. Thus PNV and PSE, that is to say, the members of the government, began their negotiation before summer, in order to present a possible reform of taxes. EH Collectan, as you know, we have long since explained our honesty here, and more than once we have shown you, to begin a deep form of taxation, in order to agree with the system which this people require. In fact, at the beginning of summer, we made a public proposal, a proposal to agree. But no answer. Not at all. The summer was over, and they did not present the proposal of the state of tax-form which had been published at several times by PNV or PSE, and in this the main power of vice appeared. he saw in the nominal tax of social food the essential descent. He said, "con la situción actual las emquis que shuias para implancines para implantarese hacón un nuntro map y nos olvidan." And of course PP and Confebas appeared in a gallop. "Welcome to the club," said a spokesman at PP. On the other hand, Mr. Totoica, from PSE, defined the proposition of Rementeria as "ourentic error." We were born to see. The Kulebroia continued, and at last PNV and PSE made public what had been agreed upon for tax purposes. The small sizes that would take little action in the collection, but that's where they were. A few months, a few months, to present simple changes that the others agreed to satisfy. "Very much weather and very little rain," chief of the department. But the so-called so-called tax reform proposal agreed between PNV and PSE did not last long. As little as necessary to satisfy the PP, Confebask and a press group that has been campaigning for the reduction of corporate tax for months. And in those we are when, in a round of nut more, "where I said, I say Diego": PNV and PSE agree a four-point step-down – I don't care – of corporate tax. That which had been a red line for months for the Socialist Party, even a mistake according to one of its representatives, and obviously something totally contrary to what you claimed by yourself at the beginning of the year to guarantee public services, became the good news of taxation. And, not content with that, they also agree to modify the property tax, lowering it, of course, as they agree to apply the Bizkaia scale in the three territories, the most favorable scale for those who have higher assets. Of course, all this wrapped in a colorful and beautiful gift paper of stricter deductions for companies, and obviously with a great bond of guarantee of collection. But that, counselor, is pure adornment, pure artifice. Because it's not credible. It is not credible that the employer welcomes the reduction in the corporate tax rate or that the PP signs what it has always demanded, a reduction in the corporate tax, and at the same time you want to make the population believe that companies are not going to pay less taxes. Faced with these fiscal issues that you have agreed, I applaud only Confebask, and some communication group that has been campaigning for months, as I said before, because it is out of reality. Even UGT and Workers' Commissions, which are not suspected of being Euskal Herria Bildu, have clearly opposed this proposal for a tax ruling. And this is the situation we are in, counselor. As we read in the press these days, you said that it seemed perfect to you that PNV and PSE have agreed to lower corporate tax, and it has affected that this will be good for the economy, as you said today, for businesses, for the collection and financing of public policies. Mr. Azpiazu, you don't believe what you said yourself. You don't believe it yourself. Mr. Below you, really, what is this? What happened? Where is the chief physician who demanded a deep form of tax-burn in less than nine months ago? Where are the demands of the deepest tax reforms necessary to maintain and to provide for the public revenues and public policies? It's essential to fix the tax model as soon as the tax policies are defined, and unfortunately, Mr. Sub-Azu, what you're proclaiming in February, you've obeyed. The Basque People defends the policy of taxing wealth, progress, equity, and social justice, and defends it, because it is a fundamental instrument to prevent social differences, because it is essential to build solid foundations of the development of our people, and to develop all this, we defend the policy of taxing which is sufficient for the collection of money. But what PNV, PSE, and PP, have agreed on during the last few days, beyond fine words, as far as the tax system is concerned, the direction which you have taken is very opposite. And in this direction, though the tax-reglection will rise for its own dynamic of economy, we know that you will have no other way to provide for the public service required by the euscal society. And again we'll hear you say, "We'd like to have more, but there's nothing else." What about the fundraiser, Mr. Subzu? We want to know what you think. Are you really comfortable with this? Do you really think you'll have a chance in the budget for more fun looking forward? We have clearly seen that you have taken a direction against the tax-forms of this people. And that's how it's going wrong, Mr. Chief, very bad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u100	Mrs. Pindo, we'll see what the results of reform are in 2019. I think there'll be more money and that's my bet because we've made accounts and I think we'll be able to talk. Mrs. Pindo, I'll take back my answer to Mr. Bollain and try to repeat it as little as possible, but it won't be possible. The agreed reforms have been agreed, first, as I said, between the institutions, and then they have also been agreed between different parties, two of which are part of the Government and one third are in opposition. This is the first thing I want to highlight, and give it the courage it deserves, because reaching the degree of agreement that we have achieved, between institutions first and between very different political parties afterwards, is neither a minor issue nor we are faced with an easy-to-achieve level of consensus. Since the whole process began, we agreed on the purpose of a state-changer's development, and we agreed that any reform should be done with the greatest political power and with the majority of institutions. And finally we agreed to see that in the three historical regions we had to make a harmonize. In this context, I must say that this is a reform – I have already pointed out this before in this House – in which the Government has incorporated its contributions, in order, for example, to the adoption of new measures to prevent tax evasion and avoidance, following the recommendations, as I said, of the OECD or the European Union. As I have just pointed out and is well known to all, that effort of inter-institutional agreement has moved after a negotiation between political parties. It could not be otherwise, in view of the arithmetic of the majorities and minorities that operate in our institutions. And if we didn't want the reforms to stay on wet paper, we had to do it. Therefore, from an institutional perspective and from a political perspective, we are also faced with agreements whose importance lies in the fact that they will provide stability to the country, I have already said, creating an environment of certainty and confidence that nobody escapes, which are basic factors for the positive development of the economy. At this point, all I have to say is that the groups calling on the Government do not have a proposal that has more support than we have on the table. What can be done then? Zer egin dezakezue orduan? Aholku bat emango dizuet: lan egin besteokin beat akordio batzuetara heltzeko. Aurrean daukagu arau foralen tramitizio guztia batzar nagusietan, eta seguru nago hobetzen baduzue ereforma, onartuak izango tell her zuen proposimenak. Ez zalantzarik isan. The agreed reforms, as I have just explained, will enable us to meet the two main objectives that we have set ourselves in the governance programme in this area. On the one hand, they will promote the financial sufficiency of the Government and of all the institutions in Euskadi, with the aim of maintaining and improving essential public policies and services. On the other hand, they will make it possible to maintain and improve the competitiveness of our productive fabric. I have repeated it many times, but it is so. In this regard, let me tell you that no one should make a totem of the nominal corporate tax rate, disregarding that the nominal rate may, and in fact is, be affected by other variables that operate on the settlement of the tax, and that all of this is at the end of what results from the type of effective tax. Also on this I have just spoken, but, to put it plainly, the nominal rate is lowered, yes, but at the same time certain exemptions, deductions and bonuses are also abolished or reduced: it limits the compensation of negative tax bases, it limits the application of deductions and exemption for reinvestment only to fixed assets for the purpose of the economic activity of the company, it adapts the deduction for job creation by linking it to quality employment and salary. I have already said, they are just some of the examples of this reform that some do not care about because they prefer to transmit a message like the one I have heard today, of a thick stroke, a message without nuances and demagogic, and therefore a false message. And this is what is not reported, for if you tell it, some thesis will be without argument. And some of them ought to be confronted with a hard problem, that is to say, how to explain that the people are opposed to this reform. This is what is not told, because then some theses would run out of argument and there are those who would have to face another problem: how to explain to people their opposition to these reforms. They both insist, Mr Bollain and Mrs Pinedo, on the issue of tax collection. Increasing collection by increasing the tax burden on corporation tax, says Mr Bollain, and Mrs Pinedo asks me about my intention with regard to collection. They both insist, and both argue that the agreed reform is going to be a drop in our tax collection. Well, well, it must be made clear that this does not have to be the case. It doesn't have to be like this, and it's not going to be like this. If the reforms contribute to an increase in economic activity, also in addition to the measures themselves, and these in turn contribute to an increase in employment and the quality of employment, tax collection will not be negatively affected. In the case of the company tax in particular, the combination of the expected positive development of the economy with the tax changes agreed will enable Basque companies to undertake processes of reversal or to undertake dynamics of wage adequacy, for example, which will also have a positive impact on both citizens and institutions. Sometime I've heard of this as a virtuous circle. Therefore, I would like to reiterate here that the tax reform or tax changes that are to be adopted will serve to increase collection, thus consolidating and optimizing, where appropriate, essential public policies and services, which this Government is firmly committed to safeguarding, in particular, the areas of health, education and social cohesion policies. From this point of view, it is untenable to say that a reform that for the Basque institutions will entail a greater availability of resources will imply budgetary cuts, as has been said, because it is not true. Without going further, if we analyze the draft budgets for 2018, for the next year, which the Government has submitted to the consideration of this House, even without considering the fiscal changes, we will see that the departments with the greatest budgetary growth in relation to this year 2017 are, in absolute terms, the departments of Health and Education. If the appropriations to deal with the depreciation of the debt are excluded, as well as the budgetary effect – which we have also explained – on the question of the railway Y, between the two departments account for 62% of the overall increase in expenditure. In other words, of the rise in government spending this year and next year, almost two out of every three euros are allocated to the areas of health and education. I finish this paragraph now, and I want to do so by highlighting one aspect of tax reform which, although somewhat unnoticed, is of paramount importance in my view. I am referring to the fact that the agreed changes are going to be harmonised – and that is also what Mr Bollain refers to – in the three historic territories of Euskadi, in the structural nuclear elements that regulate the tax figures that are going to change. As you know, whether because of political disagreements or disagreements between institutions, or because of other reasons, on more than one occasion it has occurred that our tax system was not the same in all territories. Hence the significance that this time we have been able to reach an agreement that will have equal translation, almost equal translation to all historical territories. This is the best way I would like to put the country on a consistent footing, in this case in the field of taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u101	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u102	Thank you, chief physician, for your answer, and for bringing me so ordered, write again today. Look, counselor, the reality is that in the face of this agenda (I insist, it is not a reform, it is a fiscal agenda) only Confebask, the Vocento group, the People's Party and part of the PNV, are happy, that you are also publicly told, but in private I am sure that they have told you. The Socialist Party is silent (no wonder); part of the PNV is silent, including you, or at least says what it didn't say so far, and all unions, including Workers' and UGT Commissions, against. That's the reality. You insist that this tax reform will bring us more money, etc., etc. Look, these days there have been a lot of people talking about this bad so-called tax reform; even, for example, a person as unsuspecting of being EH Bildu as the professor of Public Finance of the UPV, Mr Ignacio Zubiri, and said: "The arguments to justify the reduction of the tax rate envisaged by the reform, by quantifying what will be assumed for entrepreneurs, who are given between 150 and 200 million euros", this means that "the Basque and Basque citizens will be costing between 75 and 100 euros, each citizen". That's what a public finance professor used to say, and I don't say that. And you're in a piece of paper, Mr. Counselor. You first, Mr. Counselor. You know as well as I do what you've been defending and what others have put on your table. And I'm not even talking about the Socialist Party anymore. Denis Itxaso, November 3rd: they are "satisfied" with the tax reform agreed (the previous one, the good one, the one that according to them was the good one), "take the stamp of the socialists, because they bring a progressive look". He claimed that they have "maintained the type" (I don't know if the nominal type or the type; I don't know what it meant), and that it's not "time to lower the pressure on companies" (3 November; today is 1 December). Itxaso said that he would have "alarmed" them (at that time, he would have alarmed them) that the employer would have applauded these modifications (which he now does), and regretted that perhaps someone would have had wrong expectations about the descent of the type. They would have been alarmed that the employer would have applauded the change. It seems that, a month later, the employer claps her ears not only to the Socialist Party, but to a large part of the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, when they talk about creating economic activity, raising revenue and therefore creating jobs, Mr. President of Confebask said yesterday: "This savings in taxation" (ergo they will pay less taxes: savings in taxation, I will pay less taxes)..., money remains in the company's pocket". Words from the president of Confebask. And if the market asks, perhaps, at best, and competitiveness allows it, then, obviously, that money will be used for investment and job creation. And now those 6,000 jobs... That's right. Like a very famous man in the state said, didn't he? "That's it." And, moreover, Ignacio Zubiri himself, in relation to his fall in type, said: "For every euro of taxes that goes down to businesses, you would have to generate five euros of profit in order for the collection to be equal". And he added, "Not even the weddings of Cana." And I say, "Neither in the worlds of Yupi, counselor. Nor in the worlds of Yupi!" (I'm from another time). And the truth is that, if the market is the same, when companies have more money in their pocket just because they have lowered taxes, and not because the market is better (which is true that it is better, but not because of their activities), companies are not going to invest... A company does not buy machinery because simply by paying less taxes it has more money in its pocket. That's not credible! It's not credible, because it's not economic. That's another thing, but not economics, counselor, and you know it as well as I do. You know it as well as I do. And besides, well, I have said Mr Itxaso's statements, but it is that Mr Arriola, a member of his government, said: "I insist that it is not the time to lower taxes on anyone." Na-die. Of the corporation tax and the property tax no longer remember what they had agreed and what they sought and pushed to get in Gipuzkoa. But of course, those were other times, and there were not so many positions in the Basque Government to maintain. "Don't do totem of the nominal type!". You know I've never made a totem of the nominal type, and we've talked about it you and me. Never. But the reality is that others have made totem of the nominal type. They were saying it, it was a red line. You guys too. And, moreover, even some socialists said that, after so much effort, how to plan to change what was achieved in less than fifteen days! Well, one week was enough for them. A week, counselor. And what we have on the table has nothing to do with a cohesive society, with generating money to do it, because you know that this decision is not the right one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your time is up... Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u104	Mrs Pinedo, what you do not like are the agreements, the agreements that we have closed between the parties that make up the Government and the People's Party. And besides, don't get confused, I am a member of the government and a member of the Basque Nationalist Party. Sometimes they seem to want to confuse the issues. I think it's perfect that they don't like it, it's totally legitimate, but the point is... Do you have any alternative? Do you have any alternative that is feasible, feasible and realistic? And very important: do you have an alternative that creates a greater degree of agreement than that represented by the reform agreed between the parties of the Government and the People's Party? That is the degree of consensus that would be extensible with a view to success in the general meetings. Things are what they are, Mrs. Pinedo. Get out of that virtual reality to step on the ground. Those of us who rule have to step on the ground, we have to stand firm with reality. I'm afraid you don't, I'm afraid not one thing or another. I am afraid they do not have an alternative proposal, and I am afraid that, should they have it, they would not achieve a level of consensus higher than that achieved by the reform that is already being proposed. And, referring to the taxation and regulatory capacity conferred on us by the Economic Concert, I cannot conclude this intervention without referring to the voices that emerge again from neighbouring autonomous communities to talk about privileges, comparative grievances, unfair competition... And it's just that in the last few weeks we've been reading and hearing things that are very worrying and that make us alert. Faced with so many barbarities and half-truths, the first thing it is obliged to do is vigorously denounce the demagogy exercises that unfortunately we are seeing again. Because no one has complained when the type of tax on our company tax has been nominally higher than that in force in common territory. And does anyone in this House know of any Basque company that exclusively for this reason has moved from Euskadi to Logroño or Burgos? And if the situation were reversed, why would the rule of three happen what has never happened? I could continue to ask questions about how the supposed border effects are joyfully invoked, or why these kinds of controversies are always referred to as corporate taxation. But that's not the point. The point is that we do not return to the courts, in this case to the Constitutional Court, as a result of the provisions of Organic Law 1/2010 of 19 February, amending the organic laws of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, better known as the law on the armor of the Economic Concert. Or have we already forgotten that this same case, precisely in view of the difference in corporate tax rates, has already lost it before? And not in any instance, by the way. And now we're supposedly in a similar case. I invite you to review the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of September 2008, following the question referred to you for a preliminary ruling by the Superior of Justice of the Basque Country, because the nominal rate of corporation tax was here in 33, whereas the rate in force in common territory was in 35. The judgment of the Court of Luxembourg was totally, totally in favour of our arguments. It rebutted all the allegations made by the appellants, and was ratified in their well-known Azores doctrine, in which they set out the criteria by which taxation in a region other than that of their Member State can find a perfect fit in the Treaties of the Union, thus giving a letter of nature to the European institutions to the existence of differentiated tax systems within a Member State on the basis of an asymmetrical distribution of competences. For all these things that happen around us, of which you, Mrs Pinedo, are perfectly aware – and if you are not, worse, they put it on me – for all these things, I say, you still understand less certain senses of vote in the General Courts, like what happened a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the U.S.A. De Angulo EH are gathered together to the head of the Medical Department, to re-establish the pharmaceutical composition." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u106	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Chief of Investigation, what a slap the Constitutional Court has given the auto-engineer! The Spanish Common-wealth does not pretend to be able to use our Jurisdiction for the benefit of the People. If many persons in a vulnerable state in the Spanish state are not able to afford the drugs necessary for them. In the year 2012, I tried to appeal to you by decree to re-provoke the pharmaceutical remutation invented by PPk, but the answer that was received once more was a slam. It seems the intention of the Constitutional Court is that those who have the income of pensions, pensioners, widows, orphans, and unemployed people who have lost the right to receive a salary of unemployment, and others to leave it in a state of embarrassment. Yes, we know that the decree which the Spanish State has temporarily suspended from 2012, published by Patxi López's government, was interrupted. But today we have two decrees in force, Mr. Darpón, who you have published, a decree to hold out the treatments and a covering, thanks to an initiative introduced by the EH Collector. And that's the question we're asking you today, the Constitutional court throws the proper rule into the waste by this sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u108	Thank you. Mrs. President, Congressmans, Mrs. Blanco, good noon to everyone. "Essequently, in various times, has shown a complete contempt for the Decree Law of 16/2012. This decree of the law brought back to the preservation of the right of health, and to the development of development, for it was removed from the principle of universality in order to obtain health aid, and the settlement increased. In Euskadi we have worked since the approval of Royal Decree 16/2012 to alleviate its effects, and so we will continue to work. The first step was to challenge it, and we have also developed various legislative initiatives to mitigate its effects. As you said, Decree 114/2012 was adopted with the aim of facilitating assistance to people in an irregular administrative situation and providing compensation for the increase in the pharmaceutical co-payment. As he has said, he was appealed by the Government of Spain to the Constitutional Court, which initially declared that the increase in the pharmaceutical co-payment was not in accordance with law, but lifted the suspension in health insurance for assistance to persons in an irregular administrative situation. In any case, as you said, a few days ago we received the ruling from the Constitutional Court, specifically on Friday. A first analysis shows that our legislative development and enforcement competencies are clearly undermined, closing the possibility of autonomous regulatory development to shape the system of access to health benefits. However, we are carrying out a thorough analysis of the sentence from the Government's legal services, and we have the clear objective of continuing to ensure measures to alleviate the increase in the pharmaceutical coffer and universal access to public health in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u109	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u110	For the last three years, 400 people have received these funds because EAE was decided, and now the chance of receiving that money is in the hands of the Spanish State. I have not asked you, Mr Darpón, what you have been doing so far, because we know you perfectly well. I have asked you what measures you are going to take now, what effect it has on the decrees we have right now, and what you are going to do. Because not what we can't do, of course, is that every time Madrid gives us a door, our answer is to do a "touch-touch", we come with this decree, or it's worth it or not"; "touch-touch...", door; "touch-touch, we come with this order to see if it now hangs"... Because that's the relationship you're having so far, that wonderful relationship of bilaterality and your supposed kindnesses. But it's not so, it's fictional, as we've seen once again. It is a real unilaterality, to remind us that every time they want and we think of pulling the feet out of the groin they stop loosening rope to tighten it again. To retrench her and to remind us that it is they who direct us at her will, however much they make us think otherwise. The Constitutional Court says that the powers of the State are being invaded. And our powers, doesn't the Spanish state invade them day by day? Doesn't it invade them? Well, it seems that, along the way we're going, this is never going to end! Look, "the Basque Government has completely failed in the defence of self-government since the Constitutional Court suspended the health decree." No, I'm not telling you, nor am I telling Mr. Urkullu. Make no mistake, these are literal words that Mr Urkullu, when he was not yet lehendakari, told Mr Patxi López when he was lehendakari. I suppose today you will think the same as five years ago and you will have the same concerns as five years ago, but as I do not accuse, I ask, what I ask you is what you will do in defense of self-government in the face of this new attack by the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u112	Mrs. Blanco, the Decree King 16/2012, avoids universality and equity, we agree to that. As you know, the two principles are indisputable. For this reason we have taken all the measures which have been in our power, in order to render health the right of all men. To this end, the Basque Government adopted Decree 114/2012 and also adopted Decree 447/2013, with the aim of regulating aid to facilitate the accession of the most disadvantaged groups to medical treatment. You, too, would like the opposite, but it is still in force today. In January, Mrs Blanco, we will pay the aid for the second half of 2017. In addition, as you well know, we not only consider the decree in force, but recently, last month, we have expanded by adding as beneficiaries persons legally unemployed and income-guarantee earners, in both cases with income not exceeding EUR 18,000. And we're gonna keep them, Mrs. White. Let's see if you take the Spanish flag out of the governing municipalities! You'll see how I pay! We also continue to defend the universal nature of the Basque health system, and we defend it with concrete actions. In short, we are in favour of the universal nature of health and equity, and in this we are speaking. How? To concentrate on certain actions. At this moment it is necessary to make a thorough and quiet examination of the sentence. That's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u113	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja of the Popula team were made for Cultura and the chief of the political department of Language, about the composition of the judicial Scpurgo." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u114	Thank you again, President, Councillors, Councillor. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 1 December, six months ago Parliament adopted a motion following an inquiry, calling on the Basque Government to take a number of steps in connection with the work on the expulsion of judicial documents and recommending a temporary suspension. Among other things, the motion called for a series of proposals to be submitted to the Board of Extrusion to analyse the criteria and procedures for the elimination of judicial documentation; the need for such criteria and procedures to be based on an assessment of the documents materialized for the clarification of the retention schedule of the documentary series; the need for the Basque Government, in collaboration with the Board of Extrusion, to consider the most appropriate measures for the adequacy and preservation in good condition of the unextruded files and the summaries of the extruded ones, in order to ensure the proper preservation of all of them; the need for the documentation of the public administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and the municipal administration, the documentary assessment of the selection of documents (priorities would be those relating to human rights and historical memory), and the need for a recommendation to the Board of Extrusion on the suspension of processes for the elimination of documentation until such updating of criteria and procedures took place. Well, the President of the Board of Surgeons, who is both the dean of the courts in Bilbao, who presides over the Board of Surgeons, sent a letter to the Basque Parliament, responding to the instances that made this motion, and said that the suspension would remain until September 30, if I may recall. It has been a while now, and there is no doubt that the Board of Exurgation will have met and some decisions will have been taken. Well, we want to know all these issues that have to do with it. What is the status of the situation? In other words, a motion was adopted, criteria were requested, a reflection on the performance of the Board of Execution on how the judicial documents, the judicial records, had been dealt with, because there had been and had been significant shortcomings in relation to the disappearance of some of these issues, and we want to know how the situation is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u116	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio. He asks me about the proceedings we are conducting in connection with the judicial purge. I have already answered you, on the occasion of the inquiry that led to the motion that you mentioned, that this issue is important to the Government and that we are particularly aware of it. As I have already said, since the formation of this Government this issue has been of utmost interest and concern to our department and to the Department of Justice, which is also competent in this area. On 1 June last, the Basque Parliament adopted a motion calling on the Government's Departments of Culture and Justice to temporarily suspend the purge of judicial documents and to draw up a new proposal for the selection of documents for submission and, where appropriate, approval at the Euskadi Judicial Execution Board. The following actions have been taken to comply with this motion. Discontinuation of judicial documents has taken place until new criteria and selection systems have been adopted. The performance of the Euskadi Judicial Expediting Board has been reviewed since its establishment in 2005 to date, with no record of the destruction of documents of historic value highlighted in the extrusion work carried out. The systems with which the drain boards of other autonomous communities and the State work have been analysed. A diagnostic document has been prepared and criteria have been defined to guide the system of judicial documents purge. Twenty-five sets of judicial documents have been selected, corresponding to so many other administrative procedures, characterized by their complexity and priority in assessing the documents of the judicial system in the Basque Country. A documentary evaluation has also been carried out and the schedule for the preservation of eleven documentary series has been developed. In this work they are working specialized professionals in the field, and collaborates with them the person responsible for the archiving of the judicial system in the Basque Country. Work is under way to complete this same year the documentary evaluation and development of the conservation schedule for the other fourteen documentary series. In the first quarter of 2018, proposals for the conservation of the twenty-five valued documentary series will be validated by a committee of experts. In addition, proposals for the conservation calendar of the twenty-five documentary series identified and cited, for approval and subsequent publication, will be submitted to the Judicial Expediting Board at the end of the first quarter of 2018. I believe we are in a position to say that no relevant document has been destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u118	Thank you, Counselor. Well, then I understand that the fundamental work, the documentary work, that of the reflections, that of the criteria that had to be reworked or redefined, is it over? You have spoken of a document: we ask you to please send that working document to the Basque Parliament. I think it is important, and it would also be a response to the motion made by the Basque Parliament. And we also say that... I don't know if the word is "putting in doubt" the disappearance of documents, but we understand that it is. Remember that, while the approval of the motion in the Basque Parliament, where there was talk of this temporary suspension and of this need to elaborate or redefine the criteria, twenty-five professors of history put the accent, in a manifesto that transferred to the media, truly blunt, the "threat to history", where they also made it clear – already in this Parliament in relation to the disappearance of some files – that same disappearance of files, and linked it to a serious problem that had to be corrected. Well, the discussion of whether or not the files have disappeared will be an argument, but if they are to be removed, because there, in that reference, we were talking about files in relation to ETA crimes, which had disappeared much of the documentary burden of these, and we put a relationship between them. I think it is time to clarify this whole issue, and of course, if there is clarification and if there are documents of new criteria, we must send them to the Basque Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u119	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u120	I believe there is indeed a technical document drawn up, I think it is quite precise, which we will certainly send to Parliament for its knowledge. The analytical work that has been done is very broad, much broader than that which exists in all areas around us. I therefore believe that in any case it has been a good exercise, which will bring its conclusions and we will contribute to the relevant areas. And, with regard to the loss of documents, he had focused on one, which was the file that had to do with the murder of José María Portell. This murder occurred on 28 June 1978, and was tried at the National Court, which was created a year earlier, on 4 January 1977. Therefore, the file should be at the National Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpation, arranged by Carolón Becero, members of the Podemos team to the head of the Security Department, the SOS Dei calling on 11-12 emergency callings." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u122	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. Last January Parliament made a majority request to it, following the requests of a group of about sixty people who are responding to the calls of the 112 emergency service. These people do their work in improper working conditions – to put it mildly – to the tasks they perform, and they had a number of fair labour demands, such as increasing the workforce, substituting the current workforce, having adequate and specific training, or an agreement adapted to the service they perform. Three months later, in April, the US demanded the same thing again, to improve the conditions of work, to combine you with the workers, and correct the increase of the budget in the contract to improve the working conditions. So, what did you do? Nothing. Look the other way, and don't mind anyone from Parliament. The department, in response to the demands of this Parliament, has done all it has done during this time has been to look elsewhere and fail to fulfil the mandates given to it. On the one hand, they did not include the requests made by this Parliament in the terms of the contract documents; nor did they check whether or not the current successful tenderer had fulfilled the conditions of award. Service workers have made multiple complaints that these conditions have been breached, and you have not verified it. For example, women workers have shown that Lanalden, the contracting company, does not cover all shifts at 100 per cent. They have given him a stadium like this, carried out by themselves, where they show that the minimum number of persons stipulated per shift is not met. You have not wanted to report on this. They have been shown that there is no retention guard for support to the service, that they do not have profiles on social networks, that they have not been trained in telephone care techniques or in foreign language, as the company committed itself, and that the company has not assigned personnel to serve in English or French, as it at the time stipulated when the contract was awarded to them. You have not only done nothing about the demands of the workers, about the complaints of the workers, but have also not taken into account these breaches detected by the staff in the new award. To this end, they have relied on the complicity of the Department of Labour, whose representative is not here, but I will ask you one day of these, to know why they were so quick to do a minimum of 100 per cent services for the workforce, and yet the Labour Inspectorate has not given any response to the complaints made by the workforce in March, May and June for breach of working conditions, bad contracts, uncovered casualties during strike periods, etc., etc. Today we have the open competition to renew the service, and three companies have presented themselves. The workers, in a show of good faith and involvement, met with the three companies that opted for the competition and presented them with a template of demands to see if they would be willing to take on them. Two of them said they would, that they wouldn't have any problems. The third one didn't respond. Who has the service been awarded? On the third. Lanalden, the one I was already with. This past Tuesday was awarded to that company. I wonder: Why has it been awarded to the only company that is not willing to improve the working conditions of women workers? Who's behind this company, Lanalden, to make this happen? Well, to my surprise, the one behind Lanalden is the Basque government, which is the majority shareholder of Lanalden. The Department of Economic Development, through the Hazilur Fund, is currently exploiting the working conditions of women workers. Lanalden and the Consulting Bultz-Lan, behind which is Caritas, and a family very close to the PNV, the Beraza-Chalbaud family, who already had business with Xabier Arzalluz, are those who are behind Lanalden, which is the company that will take the award of the service. This is what this government calls public-private partnership, which is to put public capital at the service of private profit, so that this company will carry out public contracts with Euskaltel, with Kutxabank, with Naturgas, and public subsidies worth more than 18 million euros, and that it has even acquired companies like Markemos, which was owned by Cajasur, when Kutxabank stayed with Cajasur. This is the company that's taking the service. This, in addition to being a poorly understood public-private partnership, is detrimental to the citizenry, because the service will be more precarious and in worse conditions. And it also does not serve what the workers are giving to this society right now, which is a professionalism without any doubt, a dedication and a good doing, despite the unfortunate working conditions, unworthy wages, and cuts even in the travel diets that have been made to them. And yet they continue to work and serve the service as if nothing happened. But I have to say that subcontracting is the new slavery of the twenty-first century, and that in this case, moreover, it is the Basque Government, which then speaks of sustainable human development or, as we have heard today from the lehendakari, of the Gini index of inequality. Why don't they apply the Gini index of inequality to these workers, to see how they are? How do we talk about social clauses, if then we have Caritas behind this? It's incomprehensible what's going on with these workers. In-com-pre-si-ble. And what I'm telling you now is, what are you going to do, what are you going to do in the department to fix this? Are you going to mediate to get the contracting company to establish a specific agreement for this activity, as it already had one of the other successful candidates (in Castile and León it had a specific agreement)? Are you going to check with reports, for once, the compliance with the conditions of this document of conditions that comes out now? Are you going to try to provide the specific training needed by the workers of this service, which was before one month and now is ten days? How will they give their service properly, if they have less and less training! Are you going to demand, as was at the time established by this Parliament, that the increase in the budget line that goes to this service will increase salaries? Because this contest comes out with almost 600,000 euros more than the one of 2011, and I ask you: Are those 600,000 euros going to go to the workers' pocket, to improve their conditions, or are they going to go to Lanalden's pocket? Because that's what we have to care about right now: who has been given it, and under what conditions the service will be developed for the next three years. And for the time being, waiting for your answer, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u124	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Becerra, the first mistake I have to correct: the service is not awarded. You mentioned that last Tuesday the service was awarded to a company. First mistake. Mr Becerra, the specification for the recruitment of the services of care, dispatch and coordination of calls and incidents to the Emergency Coordination Centre and the Euskadi Traffic Management Centre was published on 27 July. After many months of meetings, reports, contrasts of information, the tender notice was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 29 July and on 31 July in the Official State Gazette, after overcoming all the formalities required in public procurement procedures. Because, indeed, Mr Becerra, there are many technical reports, administrative clauses, processing processes that must be carried out step by step in any procurement process, and more in a procurement process of these characteristics. Since the Director of Emergency and Meteorology and the Director of Traffic defined and concreted the technical conditions of the service and the organizational bases that are required for its correct execution, until the publication of the leaflets, nothing has been at the dawn of improvisation or indecretion. Several months of drafting, contrasting and improvement changes took place, until the favourable report of the Central Procurement Commission was received on 20 July concerning the specification of the package of particular administrative clauses of the file, issued by officials..., in this case by technical recruitment officer. Four days later, on 24 July, the favourable report was received from the Office of Economic Control, and on 26 July the Governing Council agreed to authorise the conclusion of this service contract in the amount of EUR 5,222,000. On the same day, on 26 July 2017 of the same year, with an order, this councillor approved the final recruitment file, which was and is aimed at the recruitment of Euskadi emergency call and traffic call service. And, despite having at the time of its publication all the favourable mandatory reports, both from the Office of Economic Control and from the Bureau and the Central Recruitment Commission, and from the Directorate of Economic Management and General Resources itself, in addition to the reports that recognized the legal suitability, once published we saw the need to incorporate new changes. The amendments were motivated by the publication in the Official Gazette of the State, on the same dates, of the second contact centre collective agreement, which reflected its economic effects on 1 January 2015, and this forced us to incorporate these amendments in the contract specifications. These were amendments which entailed a variation in the working conditions of the staff and of the workers providing these services, and thus, with the incorporation of the new wage clauses in the reference agreement, the Order of 14 September, which I myself signed, approved the amendment of the recruitment file. These amendments were included as an annex to the specification. This ensured that bidders had accurate knowledge of the staff salary costs agreed to in the new contact centre agreement. As you know, Mr Becerra, or you can deduce, we are now in the process of evaluating the tenders, in an already very advanced award process, but we have not yet made the award to any company. I also believe that, in this sense and at the moment, it is not for me to deliver judgements or assessments on matters relating to the award process. Nor do I have to build a story beyond what I have just commented on; a story with which I would first like to remind you that various government bodies belonging to other departments, technical staff, and officials attached to various departments or bodies, as I say, are involved in the recruitment procedures. And their participation or contribution is nothing other than to ensure the necessary guarantees in the application of the principles of transparency, free competition and equal opportunities. A story that, therefore, has the simple goal (but sometimes seems to be complex objective) that you understand and understand your group that we are committed – and for that we have been working for all these months – we are committed to bringing this recruitment to a successful conclusion, so that the public organizational structure of emergency calls, of traffic and emergencies, be as it is today, and so I recognize, a useful public service, an indisputable reference service for Basque citizens, in emergencies and in traffic information. The recruitment of the Euskadi emergency and traffic call service, which the Department's Emergency Bureau of Meteorology and the Department's Traffic Directorate manage and lead in the centre of Txurdinaga..., and especially on days like the one we are living today, in which the need for emergency calls or call information about the state of the roads can be increased by the inclemencies of time. I would like to say, Mr Becerra, that, however laudable the political will is, however laudable the agreement reached here, it clashs head-on with what is the basic legislation to be applied to contracts, and I therefore believe that, in an act of responsibility on the part of your group, they should have taken into account, very much, whether the agreements adopted here were legal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u125	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u126	Believe me, counselor, that often the legality of agreements depends more on the will of those who have to apply them than on anything else. In days like today, SOS Deiak service workers are having to answer many more calls than usual, and they do so for a thousand euros or less, with conditions many times..., that the minimum retention of services is not fulfilled, there is not the staff in the room that has to be, without being paid the travel to themselves from the other capitals to Bilbao, etc., etc. We made that clear in January, and I am not going to stop at it. What I can tell you is that we fully understand what the recruitment processes are. I've had to suffer them for many years in my own work. And we're not going to get into the process properly. What we're going to get into is what's happened before the recruitment process and then. Because if I agree with you that there's no improvisation here, it's all perfectly planned. You have decided not to make reports so that they do not include any breaches that the staff itself has revealed to you. But they are also not responding to the complaints made by the staff themselves about the flagrant breaches that this company has had in its performance over the past few years. Indeed, the valuation process is not complete, but in the valuation process and in the technical papers Lanalden has drawn seven points more than the next one, with which it has practically awarded the service. He's practically awarded the service. And what I'm telling you is... This company, Lanalden, between 2012 and 2016, that is, with the last contract, has won 3 million euros, 3 million euros, of which almost all have gone to dividends: dividends for the government, dividends for Bultz-Lan Consulting and dividends for different private companies. Everyone has benefited from this competition, from the previous one, except the workers. And what I'm telling you is: in the next contest, in the next three years, the 600,000 euros more that will be budgeted, which pocket are they going to go to? Are they going to go to the companies' pocket, or are they going to go to the workers' pocket? And that's the next part. When the competition has been awarded, the company obviously has a relationship with the workers, but there is still a guardianship by the department that has awarded the contract, so that there is a specific agreement of its own, which already exists elsewhere, which already exists in other emergency services, such as the ambulance sector. There is that possibility, and that has nothing to do with the technical specifications, Counsellor. That can be done later. And many other things can be done, such as, for example, improving training, making sure – that Parliament has asked this too – specifically the training these workers receive, verifying – and that will be in the hands of your department for the three years – that those conditions to which Lanalden has committed are met. All this has nothing to do with the award process, has nothing to do with the reports that have to be, with the hiring... It has nothing to do with that, Counselor. It is a matter of more political will than anything else. And you have not proved it, and yet I am not sure why you have not demonstrated that political will, because it seems that this service or that this group of workers is not outside the department, was something alien, because you treat them in such an extraordinary way... with such discretion... So far, you haven't even met them. The people you've got under have gathered. But nothing would have happened because you had met, especially when Parliament expressly asked you to do so. And that was not an illegal request from Parliament, it was a request that was made to it to bring the situation back on track. And they haven't been able to get to that. So, what I'd ask you to do is get the situation back on track. Of course, it is not up to this Parliament to tell who has to award it or who does not have to award it, but whoever is awarded it, especially to a company as suspicious today as Lanalden, of flagrant breaches, what I do ask is that in the next three years you cannot do and have the same attitude that you have had so far. They have to have a much more dialogueal attitude with the workers, and of course a much more supervisory attitude towards the company and the service it provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u128	Thank you. I believe that I have been sufficiently explicit in my first speech when it comes to reporting on the guarantees that you must cover and carry out a public procurement process such as that which is the subject of this inquiry that you have asked me. Neither the department, the councillor, the Emergency Directorate or the Traffic Directorate have any role in this procurement process more than they are entitled to by law, as it is a public procurement procedure. Neither with our deliberation nor with our actions can we contravene the law, that is clear to us, or interfere in the procedures that establish the guarantees of a procurement, I insist, a transparent procurement, in accordance with the principles of free competition and equal opportunities. We have, of course, drawn up specifications that adequately reflect the needs of the service, that guarantee the organizational aspects, that ensure the proper functioning and that, in addition, they will allow the company that is awarded to implement a fair and motivating personnel policy, but always adjusting and always adjusting to the legality, without interfering in the agreements of agreement or other matters of personnel or salary policy, which already have their own framework of negotiation and scope of management or trade union negotiation. I insist that neither the department itself, nor even this Parliament, have or have the power to impose or try to impose working, wage or organizational conditions that exceed our functions, and even less those that are not determined by law. Recruitment rules – you know, and you said it here – are basic. You have said "I have suffered them"; I believe the word was not the most correct ("I have suffered them"), but they are basic and therefore binding. The proposals you made here, and you know it, were a toast to the sun. A toast to the sun, proposals that raised false expectations in the workers. And, let me blame you, that is not the best way either to protect or defend the rights of workers. As I said earlier, we are committed to bringing this recruitment to a successful conclusion, and this has been our political will. This has been reflected in the bases, also in relation to social clauses, always adapting them to the rules of recruitment. That's why we've been working all these months. It has been arduous, long and constant work, in close contact with all the departments, agencies and directorates concerned. The department is the first interested in ensuring that the public organisational structure of emergency telephone and traffic telephone care ensures a useful public service, a service that is an undisputed reference for Basque citizens, as it has been so far, both in emergencies, in 112, and in 011, of traffic information. This is our political will, which has been reflected in the foundations, also in relation to social clauses. They are well-defined public services, and they will remain so. We have a public service that is attended by a team of operators with responsibility, with professional experience, with a good doing also proven. Now it is also about hiring in the best way and ensuring that this service continues to be so, and things continue to be done well. And I am convinced that this will be the case when this award process is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u129	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Basque Society of Jamaican Miloien Section of the U.A.A.." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs. Beltrán of Heredia, if I ask you or ask you about the Minones Corps you play with advantage, with much advantage, because it is alavesa. Being lavish is an advantage for everything, but I'm not going to affect that, because there are people here who don't have that privilege and might feel offended. [[Barres]] But in your particular case you know the Minones Corps very well, because she is aka, because she knows the rural environment very well, because she has the honour of being an outside MP, and because she has the honour of being the Security Advisor. Which I think little or nothing, or almost nothing I can tell you about the Minos Corps that you don't know. But perhaps to my colleagues, and in contextualizing the concern that has brought us to the rostrum today, I have to explain to them that the Minones Corps of the Foral Diputación de Álava is the oldest police force in Spain, probably one of the oldest in Europe. There are historians who say yes, and others say no, but, well, for us it is certainly the oldest in Europe. She is a police officer who, although originally from the Lower Middle Ages, was created at the end of the 18th century, and has a structure that has remained virtually unchanged since 1930. She is a singular police, who endured the pull of the Civil War, of the terrible Civil War that lived between 1936 and 1939, and, even more, she endured the dictatorship, which tried to erase all the singularities and all the peculiarities of the outside territories, and she endured the entire dictatorship. He even endured the clash of terrorism, when in 1980 the bastard terrorism of ETA murdered Jesús Velasco Zuazola, who was head of Miñones, in January 1980, killing him here in Vitoria, very close to this Parliament, on the other side of the cathedral. That Minones Corps, that structure created in 1930, endowed the Minones with three sections: a section of collectors, a forest section, and a section of walkers. The harvesters fortunately are no longer the Minones, but the other two, that of walkers and the forest, remain more or less intact, logically with the evolution of history and of the institutions. Today they have become the transport police section, which monitors traffic and especially transport, both goods and people, and the environmental section, which is a pride for all the Alaves and all the Basques. All these days we are seeing in committee precisely what the Basque institutions can do to combat this apparent impunity, in many cases, of crimes and administrative offences against the environment. That is precisely why our concern comes today. And this interpellation could have removed it perfectly if today the deputy general of Álava, when asked in the full control of the General Councils of Álava, would have responded clearly to how, in what situation he was in and in what immediate situation will be the job relationship of the staff of the Corps of Minions of the Foral Diputation of Álava, the Section of Minions of the Ertzaintza, to call him with his correct name. But either he didn't want to or he couldn't, or he didn't know, and he didn't answer, and that's why I'm worried about asking him what's going to happen to that Ertzaintza job relationship. He's got a hundred seats right now. Of those hundred, I think, if I'm not wrong – and I'm sure if I'm wrong you'll correct me – they're covered with eighty-six, but the forecast is that there will be twenty-four retirements in 2018, with which there would be sixty-two, or more than sixty-two, as I refuse with my head. Sixty-six people. So far – we have all known, and you and I have talked about this issue, and we have done so in the gallery and we have done so in committee – you have explained to us that the whole employment relationship of the Ertzaintza could not be covered precisely because the Government of Spain had brought the OPEs of the Ertzaintza to the courts and the whole workforce could not be completed. It seems that that gap is already resolved, we have removed it from the middle with the last negotiations they had in Madrid, and the staff will already be completed in the actual number. The ratio or the rate of lack of strength in the rest of the Ertzaintza and police stations groups is more or less 5%. Here it triples, or so it is transferred to us sources of the union representatives of the Ertzaintza. Of course, if the places are not covered, with the twenty-four new retirements that officially said the deputy that will be in 2018, then we would be at about 40% at that rate of uncovered places. Precisely because we believe in the importance of this body... It is no longer simply a romantic issue that we have had in Álava and that we have had all our lives, but that the functions it carries out are really fundamental, precisely because of the type of police involved. When I see you talking passionately about the police model you want to defend and who you want to get to, and who you're working on, you always tell us about a nearby police force, a preventive police force... I know that in your subconscious what you have are the Minones you have known all your life, which are that nearby police – especially in the rural environment – and a preventive police, which is what gives rise, even if it is outside your duties, to the fact that the rate of Álava's crimes is among the lowest in Spain: the presence of these people. On the subject that we are fundamentally concerned today, the environmental area, the environmental area almost no longer patrols at night every day for lack of troops. That is, due to the lack of troops, they have had to rearrange the personnel, and the patrol is no longer on the street in the morning, evening and evening shifts as before. It's only during the day, and that's logically the bad guys – if you let me use that term, counselor – know that, and that's harmful to the whole lavish environment. That's what the stealths know, that's what companies that are dedicated to making uncontrolled discharges into our rivers know, that's what those who transport and commit crimes carrying animals from one place to another when they don't have to do it... And those jobs that this environmental police, that environmental area that you would so much like to have in all three territories and that you only have in Álava... , does a very important job, just as the transport police does a very important job. It is well known that the quinquis of the transport were pending, to cross the N-1 in the historical territory of Álava, in the direction of Gipuzkoa or in the direction of Burgos, of the time when the minions were going to eat, and at that time used to cross the territory to every pill, with trucks overloaded or trucks in bad conditions. The preventive presence of the minions prevented these violations from being committed; an important source of collection, on the other hand, for the parliament, and then, logically, a way of avoiding accidents. That transport police area no longer carries out passenger transport inspections, because it has no troops. That is why, Madam Counsellor, today I want to ask you, and it is very simple, and if you answer me and also answer me as I think you are going to do, then we also avoid ourselves until the second round: With what number of staff will you complete the employment relationship of the Ertzaintza, which is agreed at this time in 100 people, in 100 agents of the Ertzaintza, in 100 agents of the Minones Corps? And when are you going to do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u132	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon. Well, surely we join that passion also for the history of Álava and the history of which they are part, moreover inseparable, the Miñones, and I recognize and agree with you that the Miñones constitute a consolidated police service. A service that is currently structured into four areas of activity: the environment, inspection of road transport, institutional security of both persons and property belonging to the institution of the Foral de Álava, and the coordination centre. Areas that are well defined, that are established in the Basque Police Act and that therefore functionally depend on these functions, of the Foral Diputación de Álava. Thus, the Minones Section depends on the deputy general, the whole organization and the definition, the development of these established functions. That's why, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, the Álava Provincial Council and the Department of Security itself are working on permanent coordination. Because you know that, as well as the functional aspects depend on the Foral Diputation of Alava, what corresponds to the organizational structural part corresponds to the Department of Security; they are another part of the Ertzaintza, they are a unit, they are a section of the Ertzaintza, and therefore it is the direct responsibility of the department. This is defined and established by the Basque Police Act, and so, I insist, we work in coordination so that the service of the Minones Corps remains a benchmark of efficiency, of important police efficiency for the citizens of Alaves. Of the last actions of renewal and updating of the Minions you have all been able to witness. Just six months ago we were completely renewed, 100 percent of the uniformity, a comprehensive renewal long requested and long awaited also by this Body of Minones; a new uniformity, which responds to the aesthetic and functional proposal proposed by the Foral Diputación de Álava and which has had the advice and the satisfaction of minones who know the institution very well, who are very attached to the institution and who know very well also the historical evolution of the Body of Minones itself. And also throughout this 2018 will count on the implementation of two more renovations. On the one hand, the one affecting the gallery of traditional gala costumes, and on the other hand the technical approval of the uniforms used by the road inspection and transport group. They will have materials that conform to more advanced safety and visibility standards than the current ones. That is why, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I should like to ask myself at this stage, as I did in the justification of your inquiry, whether I intend to provide the Minones Section with sufficient material resources, so I believe that it can only be the result of a temporary interest. I remind you of the fact that the new uniformity released in July was an investment of 140,000 euros, but in total more than 500,000 euros have been allocated in the last two years to the renovation and replacement of different materials of uniformity and endowment. And not only that, I'm not just talking about uniformity. I remind you again, the Minones Section is functionally dependent on the Álava Provincial Council, which is responsible for organizing and managing the security services it provides, but as an organizational structure it is dependent on the Department of Security. And that is why all that is the Ertzaintza Program in Service, the Ertzaintza Budget Program in Service of the Department of Security, covers the needs of the Ertzaintza and, therefore, also of the Minones, without any exclusions, without any restrictions, always respecting to the maximum their specificities, functional and competitive specificities. And in this respect, the Foral Chamber of Alava and the Department of Security are going hand in hand. The technical and material needs therefore correspond to the competitive functions that are met from the department. And we always try to do this with efficiency criteria, combining and prioritizing the urgent and the important. Thus, if in this year 2017 the extraordinary investment has been the uniforms, also, as in the whole of the ertzainas and the ertzainas, the staff of the Section of Minones will renew the personal vests of protection. An equally important investment, an important improvement, also substantial in its protection. And so, with identical criteria of importance, urgency and efficiency, also the renovation of the mobile park that will be carried out in 2018. As I have already informed the Committee on Finance when presenting the budgets, or the draft budgets we have for the department for this 2018 financial year, the bidding of new vehicles is already in a very advanced process. We will renew, under the formula of the rent, the most rolling vehicles, and in the case of the Minones Corps specifically vans and all-terrain. But, beyond these material resources, essential for the proper execution of the police tasks entrusted to them, I would like to remind you that the training needs of the Minones are also covered from the department; continuous, necessary training, which is provided in the program of updating and refinement, for which the Minones Section, as it cannot otherwise be, functions as any other unit of the organic structure of the Ertzaintza. And so the more specific needs, the environmental needs, the needs for heavy transport training, the new regulations, are covered from the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, where every year, you know, we invest more than EUR 14 million in training for public safety in Euskadi, including the Miñones, without any kind of exclusion. Between January 2013 – I will give you this data – and November 2017, staff from the Minones Section have added a total of 662 enrolments in different training courses at the Basque Academy. Moreover, there are subjects in which the staff of Miñones also practice as a teacher. Shooting practices also take place at the academy. Therefore, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, lauded also, functionally depend on the parliament, organically depend on the Department of Security, with competences, with functions well determined through the law, and, as I say to you, well coordinated the two institutions. That is why I would ask you to dispel all those doubts that you have raised regarding the department's purposes with regard to the organization and operation of Miñones, and the doubts that you have about the endowment to maintain. As you have said well and as you know, the job relationship states that there must be a hundred employees, and this, be clear, has neither changed nor will be changed, because we see no reason to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u133	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u134	Thank you, Counselor. And congratulations to the documentaries of your department, because you've told us everything about the Minons, absolutely everything. Everything except what I asked you, which is when you're going to cover those 100 jobs. That must have been forgotten. Please take note, and on the last shift to see if I'm lucky and answer me. He has indeed shown the interest, which we share, in the Minones Section of the Ertzaintza body, in the two. We share it for both of us. But you don't answer me, Counselor. I am concerned that this non-post coverage rate is tripled to that of other sections. Of course I will never doubt, because I have no knowledge and no complaint, neither the functioning nor the organization of the Minones Corps. My only doubt is when we're going to have the environmental patrol operating at two hundred percent, as it did so far when it had troops. When are we going to have them in day shift and night shift? When are we going to avoid the problems with the bereavement at Gorbea's stands in recent months, precisely because of that lack of troops, which had to be on other issues and which did not have enough members to patrol all the time necessary, as has been done so far? You, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, are a woman of your word, I know, you have shown it to me for many years. We have known each other for many years, and you always told me that it would be completed when the Madrid Government ended the resources against the OPEs of the Ertzaintza. Well, that's already insured. You go up to the rostrum and tell us, please, when are we going to have those hundred minions. That at this moment he is angry for lack of staff, because there are eighty-six (eighty-six, as I have been told) out of the hundred? But the truth is, twenty-four are going to retire from January 1st! So, when those twenty-four retire, of course the environmental patrol disappears, the transport police disappears... Neither does the CECO, which I have not quoted before, and you do. Not that it is important: in days with climatic adversity like today, it is absolutely fundamental for being able to circulate through Álava. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, it's very simple, please answer me: when are we going to have a hundred troops in the Ertzaintza Mining Section? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u136	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I wish I had shown this same interest that you have shown here today for the body of the Ertzaintza, as you have said, because today probably this question, this interpellation, would have certainly remained. The employment ratio of the Minones Section has been set at 100 since 2015, it is well known, in the Ertzaintza 8,000... A hundred for the Minones Section and 7,900 for the rest of the Ertzaintza units, including Mikeletes and Forales. It is true – you know it as well as I do – that today neither the Ertzaintza has the 7,900 troops, nor the Minones section, therefore, has the 100. To this day there are ninety-two in the body of Minones, and two people are actually going to retire at the end of the year. And if you look at all the Ertzaintza units it will cost you, so I told you, to find a single unit in which the whole job relationship is complete. We are about 7% below in all, and casually also in the Minions Section we are in that percentage. But it is not always so, nor is it so in all units, because, as you know well, these data are changing day by day, unit by unit, depending on how the retirements go, depending on how these casualties go... But above all you know as well as I do that we still have a major deficit in Ertzaintza, and you know perfectly well what the reason is. I do not know whether you have come here to remind you again of the reason for this deficit, but I will not mind explaining it to you again in this Parliament, and you will have to listen to it again. We are so because the Government of Spain, the Government of the People's Party, took time to understand, too long, like you, that we had an urgent need to call for new promotions to cover the retirement leave (increasingly lower retirement leave) that was already taking place in the Ertzaintza and that logically they also affected and affected the Minones Section, and that they continue to do so. More than a year late in the process of selecting promotion 26 for resources that were also threatening normal development and the end of promotion 25. I think we're on the right track now, but you don't have to forget that since we've called a promotion until the agents can get out on the street for more than two years. More than two years. And see that we hurried to hold the exams once the veto was lifted: it took us only twenty days to call the exams for promotion 26. We were in a hurry, but not yet. It's time, isn't it? This is like hams, you have to give them time to heal. Well, here's the same thing. Despite these difficulties imposed by the Government of Spain, the Department of Security between 2014 and 2016 has drawn three calls for places, a total of 670 places we have called over these years, between 2014 and 2016, and promotion 27 we will call it immediately. In this sense, therefore, I wish I had come to this concern earlier. I wish they had also taken a proactive position on the concern that the Government of Spain, the Government which was and is led by the People's Party, would have lifted the veto so that we could have called these promotions and therefore give due attention to the renewal of the number of troops in the Ertzaintza. But don't worry, we're on our way. And do not worry too, that we will cover in the best possible way, and to the extent possible, not only the Minones Section, but also each and every one of the units, always with the criterion of providing an efficient safety and security service. And as far as the protection of the environment is concerned, I have to remind you that, logically, this is not an exclusive mission of the Minions: there is also an important area in the Foral de Álava, which is responsible for the care, protection, surveillance and inspection of all matters relating to the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-12-01.u137	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. I'll read an institutional statement next. "The institutional expression made by the Basque parliaments on the anniversary of the violent death of Manuel Garcia Capaorós. "Manuel García Capaorós, passed through thousands of people in the direction of the autonomy, the police supposedly shot. "The fact is that Congress of the Dimatians was the object of a committee of investigating, and today the family of Manuel García Caparós has had no access to the content of this commission, and to the conclusions which have occurred in its own case. "The Basque Parliament supports the demands made by different political and institutional actors and by the family themselves to have access to what has been done in the Congressional commission of inquiry, which has so far been denied. "The family of Manuel García Caparrós has therefore not had the right to justice, since the murder of his son has not been investigated or clarified. "The Basque Parliament understands that the right of Manuel García Caparrós and his family to truth, justice and recognition must be fulfilled. "For what reason we admit the next institutional expression. "Manuel García Caparós's family is held by the parliamentary Act, to illustrate the murder of the young men of Andalucia, and to acknowledge the need of the inquiry of the judge of this matter. From the moment that this is done, he begins to consider the victim of a serious human right to Manuel García Capaorós." So since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty minutes.
