ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. Please. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to start with an institutional statement, and we'll have a minute's silence in order to prevent the murder that was killed yesterday. "The law of the East is extremely and highly censured by the murder of Mrs. Ana Belén of Mrs. Hurtado, who has been victims of another act of violence against women. The parliament presents its support and sympathy to the relatives of the victim and to the nearest relatives. "The law of Europe condemns this murder, and all the phenomena of violence against women, or of sex. We assume that sexual violence is the most important and the most different appearance in the phenomena of the differences between women and men, from which these differences are derived in the relations of power, and in the relations of women in order to govern them. "The Basque Parliament invites citizens to make personal and collective commitments in favour of equality between women and men. It also urges the institutions, which have a crucial responsibility in their eradication, to develop comprehensive plans with the necessary resources to achieve their ultimate disappearance, so that no acts of violence against women will occur again and much less murders such as the one that cost Ana Belén Jiménez Hurtado his life." After that, we'll have a minute's silence. [[Silent]] I inform you that the fifth point has been retired. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentarian Society of Euscals, concerning the change of the 1/2012 Law on the Euscal Authority of the Combat. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're parted, and we're just going to argue. Besides the Popular Party, is anyone else willing to share it? Someone else, on the side shift... ? On the contrary... ? One. And Podemos... ? No, explicación de voto. PSOE also, yes. All right, then, next door, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u1	Congressmen, Mr. President, chief officers, good morning to all. Under this rostrum to share with you the appropriateness of the present proposal of law, necessity, and also to try to share with you the arguments sufficient for your vote to be in favour of the processing of the present proposal of law, which you intend fundamentally, in addition to the articles mentioned and subject to amendment by the People's parliamentary group, is also to open a debate around another of the control bodies and another of the fundamental organs to ensure the proper functioning of our (i.e. economy, which also)..., the proper functioning of our organs, in general, of control. We have been discussing in this House and outside it, but mainly in this House, through the processing of various laws and also through the processing of various proposals for legislation, on the need to continue to abound in transparency criteria, to equip our tools of self-government and our legislative tools with elements of effectiveness, independence; therefore, also of how we make sure that the control bodies from which we are endowed are increasingly independent, or we guarantee through the relevant amendments that independence. We have also discussed on numerous occasions, and we will certainly do so in the future, how we can do to sharpen the spaces of those so-called revolving doors. In short, what we have been talking about for a long time is how we do to equip our legislation with tools to improve it, that through this perfection will allow us to broaden and improve the confidence of citizens in their institutions, in their standards, in the rules of behavior, and, in the end, to improve our system and improve our tools – as I said before – of government. In this regard, the proposal for a law that the People's Party is defending today and for which we are asking for its approval in the process has two or three fundamental issues on which I would like to share with you a very brief reflection. I don't think everyone has had the opportunity to read it in detail, so I think it's appropriate to bring it this way. We propose the modification of three or four fundamental aspects. The first of these is Article 7(2). We believe that the president of the Basque Competition Authority will be appointed by the Basque Government, as the law says, for a period of six years, without the possibility of re-election. We believe that this inability to be re-elected also guarantees and deepens the autonomy and independence of the presidency of the body of the Basque Competition Authority. In addition, he will be chosen from among lawyers, economists and other professionals of recognized prestige and professional competence with more than twelve years of professional practice in the field of this authority. Another of the fundamental aspects that we advocate and want to introduce is that the person proposed by the Government must be elected, or materialized, after the Government's proposal has appeared before the relevant committee of the Basque Parliament, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. It also says our amendment that the Basque Parliament, through its competent committee, and by agreement adopted by an absolute majority, will be able to veto the nomination of the proposed candidate within one calendar month, etc., etc. It seems to us essential that this Parliament can also have not only a voice, but also a decisive criterion and opinion when it comes to appointing the President of the Basque Competition Authority, and this will certainly also allow the criteria when it comes to choosing and pointing out and appointing the President of the Basque Competition Authority by the Government to be more comprehensive, because it will also be subject to the right criteria, certainly to the debate and to the right criteria of this House. We also create a paragraph 3 bis of Article 7 of the current law, which would read as follows: "The holder of the presidency of the Basque Competition Authority shall also be subject to the same causes of disability, incompatibilities and prohibitions, as well as abstention and refusal, if any, established for judges. It shall in any case be incompatible with the exercise of his profession or of any other gainful or non-remunerated activity." As you can see, the requirements are tightened, and the criteria for being able to preside over the body referred to are also guaranteed through this tightening of requirements. Similarly (another amendment to Article 7(4)), we propose that the person holding the presidency shall exercise his or her function with exclusive dedication and shall act in the exercise of his or her functions with full and absolute independence. In addition, no person who, directly or indirectly, within the period of two years preceding the date of his appointment, has appeared before the Competition Authority itself as an interested person or representative of any interested person may hold the Presidency. Following this line of argument to strengthen the criteria of independence and equanimity, we also propose, in this case creating a paragraph 4 bis in article 7, that it will not be possible to be appointed president of the Basque Competition Authority that person who in the previous six years has been included in one of the following situations: that he has been a member of this House (Vasco Parliamentarian), deputy in the Congress of Deputies, senator or member of the Competition Authority itself, having formed part of the governing bodies of political parties or organizations representing workers or entrepreneurs, minister or any political or administrative office of the State or of autonomous communities, councillor of the Basque Government, prosecutors, empowered on general boards... That is, to go like this by sharpening the spaces that to date have had the rotating doors. I do not want to overwhelm them any more or bore them, because the criteria and the approach, for a short while, is forceful and is known by anyone who looks at the text that you have in your hands. In any case, on the criteria on which the Basque Government supports its opposition to the processing of this bill, I would like to make two considerations. First of all, the Basque Government claims that there is – and it says so in a decisive way, and I quote literally –... that "there is no precedent in our legal system to the veto proposed" by the People's Party and that it would be dealt with through this House. Well, it's not true, it's not true, because Law 3/2013 of 4 June on the creation of the National Commission on Markets and Competition expressly regulates the veto of the Congress of Deputies on the nomination of a candidate for president, vice president and member of the commission. There are legal precedents (not just precedents, but present legal ones), in which the parliaments, in this case the Congress of Deputies, pronounce on an appointment, on a proposal for the appointment of the Government itself, in this case of Spain. And the Basque Government tells us that there is no precedent, and that what the Spanish Government does have to do, is to process and submit to the Congress of Deputies an appointment, here the Basque Government does not have to do it, and this Parliament is excluded from that deliberation, from that analysis and subsequent debate. This argument used by the Government would therefore be disassembled. The Basque Government's view in its opposition is also based on the fact that independence, impartiality and objectivity – and I also quote literally – "is preserved by the current rule, when it establishes its appointment for a renewable six-year period". Well, they're opinions, and, like everyone else, everyone has theirs, and this is a very subjective criterion. We believe that the impossibility of being renewed ensures that the person who performs this function is not afraid that certain decisions may influence its renewal or not, and therefore having a date of expiry for its presidency can be objectively more free when it comes to carrying out its work. And another of the criteria that the government also sets out to substantiate – and this is probably the most surprising, if the former are not enough – is the argument that when the current law in force was processed, Law 1/2012 of 2 February, was not required, the requirements that we raise today were not asked. Well, many of you know that laws are not immutable, and that you can reform and process your reform. It is true that in 2012 political, social and public opinion circumstances were different, and that the requirements for access to control bodies were probably more lax. It's been at least five years, but in those five years, a lot has happened. And the same thing that we discussed in this House in the past about the Court of Auditors, or that we have discussed and are going to discuss again about the Transparency Act and introduce control requirements for the public authorities, this is also one of the fundamental tools of control, not only of the public authorities, but also of private companies, and it seems to us to be fundamental and very important to introduce these criteria. These are the fundamental arguments for which we want to ask for your approval so that we can discuss these considerations in this House, these proposals that we are submitting to you today, but many more than certainly will be able to improve the criteria for which the body described is governed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the opposite round, Social Party, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u3	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists came out in this turn against the proposal put forward by the People's Party for several reasons. First, because Law 1/2012 of 2 February 2012 of the Basque Competition Authority, adopted in its day by this Parliament, aimed at the creation and regulation of the Basque Competition Authority, whose activity is in conformity with public law and is an autonomous administrative body, and, in wanting to provide it with organizational and functional autonomy with respect to the administration to which it belongs, this body is integrated as an independent administration, a category established when the purpose was to politically neutralize an integrated activity in the orbit of the Executive Power. The common feature in the independent administrations is that they enjoy functional independence from the government administration in the fulfilment of their purposes; that is, that it implies the exclusion of the government guidelines and the absence of the so-called "undue rise resource" before the government administration, as well as the powers of ex officio review of their acts by the government administration. This independence also extends to the personal elements of the organization, which, although appointed by the Executive, are guaranteed their immobility during their term of office, except in exceptional and previously assessed cases. In addition, these independent administrations seek an asymtony between the terms of office of the members of these organizations and that of the Government that appoints them, through mandates that exceed the four years of a legislature. In our case, the Basque Competition Authority has six years in force before being renewed. Therefore, we find that in the case of the Basque Competition Authority we are faced with an agency that can be considered independent administration, since it develops its activity with organizational and functional autonomy, and exercises its functions with full independence from the Basque Government and also from economic agents. Acts of the Directorate of Investigation which produce defencelessness or irreparable harm shall be subject to appeal to the Basque Competition Council, and not to the Department of Finance to which that body is attached. And in the face of the acts of the presidency or the council, recourse can only be made to the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, since they complete the administrative route. The holders of the Presidency, the Vocations and the Research Directorate shall be appointed for a period of six years and shall cease to hold office only on the grounds expressly laid down in the law. The head of the Presidency and of the Research Directorate shall be considered as a high-ranking officer and shall be subject to his or her regime of incompatibilities. The title of the vowels is incompatible with the exercise of any other position or activity that may compromise their independence, and has a specific incompatibility regime that reaches the two years prior to their appointment and the two years after their termination. In those limited cases in which the intervention of the department to which it is attached is envisaged, it is limited, proportionate and respectful of the principles that must govern its performance, so that by law the participation of the competent department is envisaged only in the establishment of the guidelines of the authority, with the chair of this body approving the plans of action in which the objectives and priorities are defined, while the control of the effectiveness and efficiency of its activity by the Department of Finance was suppressed in order to avoid precisely an excess of zeal. Therefore, having made clear the performance independently of the criterion of the Basque Competition Authority, and its organizational and functional autonomy, the Socialists express our criterion also contrary to this proposed law which is brought to us today because there are no public office appointments in the legal system subject to the possibility of veto by the Basque Parliament, not even when it comes to appointments made by the Basque Parliament itself. Thirdly, Law 1/2012 of 2 February, establishing the Basque Competition Authority, had a broad consensus in this House and also had the full support of the People's Party, and never questioned (the People's Party) the requirements for the appointment of persons holding its organs to ensure their capacity, competence, independence and impartiality. The President of the Basque Competition Authority is appointed by the Basque Government for a renewable period of six years, between jurists, economists and other professionals of recognized prestige and experience in the field of authority, and is subject to the incompatibility regime of the senior officials of the Administration of our Autonomous Community, and will exercise their functions acting with full and absolute independence. Fourthly, when we discussed the bill then, in 2012, parliamentary groups reserved some amendments for the plenary debate in this House. Among these amendments was the ten-year-old requirement in the professional practice to preside over the authority, and the People's Group voted, together with the Socialist Group, against this amendment. We then considered that the appointment for the presidency of jurists, economists and other professionals of recognized prestige and experience in the field of authority was sufficient merit and rigour for the exercise of that office. We therefore do not understand the new or new proposal that the People's Party intends to make. With the Basque Nationalist group we agreed at the time (in 2012) and accepted and had 75 % of all the amendments that they had tabled. There were only three left for the plenary discussion, among which was the ten-year-old theme for the presidency. Also at that time Eusko Alkartasuna reserved a number of amendments for the plenary session, but a significant number of them were also taken over by the presentation. The Basque Competition Court itself made a number of contributions that were also incorporated into the bill in some cases, and in other cases they were not taken into account, because it was understood that the law itself went beyond what the Basque Competition Court itself intended to propose. Whatever the case, that law had an important consensus, a broad consensus in this House. Five years ago we approved the Basque Competition Authority Act, and so far no case of rotating doors has been given with this autonomous body, as the People's Party points out through its proposal in something it wants to avoid. I believe that the People's Party is putting the bandage on before the wound, and neither do we consider in this case, by the proven facts... Because every time the Basque Competition Authority has come to make its annual memoirs, appearing in the Finance Committee, there has never been any problem as to the independence and objectivity of criteria that this body may have had. We have had the opportunity in this Parliament to analyse and debate many reports from the Basque Competition Authority, many of them. For example, the recruitment of public catering services by the Basque Government. The report of the Basque Competition Authority on the Tourism Act, a comprehensive report on the bill, was also analysed. And they were not exactly both favourable to the Government from the point of view of the report of the Basque Competition Authority, which they carried out with complete independence and objectivity of judgement. And no one, either from the government or from this Parliament, ever intended to change those reports. Therefore, there was no sign of interference, political or legal, by either side, or by the Department of Finance, or by the Basque Government, or by this Parliament itself. As I say, there was no hint of interference in those reports or for the authority to issue different reports. The Basque Competition Authority does not have the same treatment as the Basque Court of Public Accounts. It's not the same. It's not determined in the same way. Therefore, we understand that your proposal, which you made at the time and which was answered, regarding the modification of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, does not come to the case for the Basque Competition Authority, in our view. The Basque Socialists believe that, despite the benefits derived for society as a whole from the competitive functioning of the markets, on certain occasions the particular interests of some economic operators may not coincide with the principles of free competition, and the incentives to carry out restrictive practices of free competition may be important. Therefore, the intervention of the Basque Competition Authority, in such cases, is when it is really necessary to ensure the competitive functioning of the markets and that their benefits reach society as a whole. I do not think that we are doing any weak favour to the Basque Competition Authority by maintaining the law as it is, without modifying it, when it is a fully-guaranteed law, as I say, for maintaining the criteria of objectivity and the criterion of independence of this autonomous body. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief, good morning to all. I must say in the name of our team that we will not vote for the consideration of what the popular team has proposed because we think it's wrong. That is to say, the arguments you have given have not been very weighty, at least not to consider the proposition, and then to describe partial corrections. We believe that what has been proposed is not easily solved by partial corrections, and when, in our opinion, a legal proposition is introduced, the party who proposed it must make an attempt in order to allow it. It is equally surprising that we are surprised at the moment and reason of this exposition. Before he had seen Mrs. Cando, the Popular group had no intention of discussing it. In this respect, I must recall, as has been recalled recently, that the law which is intended to be amended and which created the Basque Competition Authority was adopted with this important parliamentary support, including that of Mr Semper himself, without at any time you, Mr Semper, or your group's spokesman on this matter, Mr Damborenea, questioning the requirements for the appointment of the persons holding their organs. And this guaranteed – or no one questioned it at least – capacity, competition, independence and impartiality. It is not necessary to refresh Mr Semper's memory because he himself has made it clear, but I have to remember that the law in question does not come from the Paleolithic, not from the Paleolithic, but has only five years. It is certainly always desirable and good to review the laws adopted by this House, but it will be with me that for this it is convenient and necessary to let some prudent time pass. And this is not the case. This law made an opportunity of a system united with the organizational structure. The result is that the instruction and solutions are in one organization. The staff has three organ structure. One, President, chairman, and delegation functions; two, the Basque Council of competition, which has functions to decide, and judge; and three, the director of the inquiry, which has the functions of examining. In the same way, we have the principal secretary who offers technical assistance and legal guidance. In this structure we have a strong field, which enables us to reach themes connected with violence and punishment. Again, the same structure of competition between the States and the nations is repeated by the supreme authority, and thus the coherence of the system is obtained. In the same way, and here, as Mrs. Corcuer has said, there was a system called President, Member, Investigator, and Chief Secretary for six years. This means that the term of execution in all their members is longer than the law, and that in order to make decisions, it favors independence. From organic and functional autonomy, the independence required by the authority increases, and this independence is maintained in regard to public administration and economic agents. That being said, it is therefore strange for us that Mr Semper is now coming to cast doubt on the stroke: on the capacity, on the competence, on the independence or impartiality of that body and of the holders, when in these more than five years of existence there has never been any criticism of these issues. Moreover, and as I have said before in Basque, the independence and impartiality and objectivity in the decision-making of the persons holding the bodies of the Basque Competition Authority are preserved by the current rule in force, by establishing their appointment for a period longer than that of the legislature and only being able to cease their functions for reasons assessed in the law itself. All of the above should be sufficient explanation to justify our position contrary to the consideration of this proposed law, but already put into practice, and aside from the halo of occurrence and opportunism that sums up the proposal, there are issues that the proposer ignores and that are nothing but baladies. For example, the very nature of the body, since the Basque Competition Authority, as Mrs Corcuera has pointed out, is an autonomous administrative body and forms part of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community, and the persons holding its bodies are considered to be high-ranking, whose appointment falls solely and exclusively to the Basque Government, i.e. the executive branch. As I said earlier, the structure of the main competition authorities is reproduced, both at state and international level. If we really advocate the separation of powers, it is more than obvious that each power has its own framework of action, so I do not see it advisable or desirable for a public office to be subject to the veto by this Parliament. This possibility does not exist even when it concerns appointments to be made to the Basque Parliament itself. In this sense, Mr Semper has been tempted to equate this initiative with others that the same group (the People's Group) has brought to the House and that with a very similar staging have passed the process of consideration. I am thinking of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, but we cannot make it clear that this body is directly dependent on this Parliament, which appoints it and to whom it is accountable. Therefore, a situation quite different from that which we now have in our hands. This proposed law does not propose another model of competition authority, but focuses exclusively and almost obsessively on appointments. Nothing is said in the proposal about the dependence of the Basque Competition Authority or other related issues. For all that, our group will vote against the proposal for a law put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The answer turn, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u7	Yeah. I'll try to answer... Well, I will try not, I will answer to Mrs Corcuera and Mr Latxaga, the spokespersons of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, at the same time, because in the end they are the same, and the arguments have been exactly the same. Mrs Corcuera, in an argument also used by her colleague Mr Latxaga, reminded us all, enlightening us, that we are talking about an organ that belongs to what comes to be the independent administration, which enjoys governmental independence, which exercises its functions independently of the government, and this is an argument also used by the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, in this case, the Basque Government calls it! The argument of the separation of powers seems particularly remarkable to me, Mr Latxaga. Especially remarkable, because if that argument made by you were extended to everything we could not ask for reprobation or criticize a counselor appointed by Mr Lehendakari, because she has been appointed by the Executive. Nor could we strike or call for the appearance in this House of a director general, a vice-lehendakari or a vice-counselor. We could not call him to appear in a commission, because, as he has been appointed by the executive, what does the legislature do by getting into another area of separation of powers! Look, look, look, I think it's important that we establish a base. We're not stone guests here. We have been elected by citizens to legislate and control government action, and this is a very serious matter. We are reforming numerous self-government tools to improve and improve them, to improve transparency and their effectiveness, in the control of the organs of power and government. That's why we're chosen, too. Hey, we're not stone guests even if you rule. We also have an important job to do. And what we are proposing is that, if the Basque Government has among its powers to appoint the President of the Basque Competition Authority, this Legislative Chamber before an appointment of the Executive may request and may require, in this case through the amendment of a law, that such appointment be submitted to the consideration of this Chamber. What are you talking about, separation of powers? This is the separation of powers, this is the normal functioning of the institutions. Hey, what's up? Does it not draw your attention, powerfully the attention, that the Basque Government in one of its arguments against the handling of this bill says that there is no similar precedent in the world? Listen, the Congress of Deputies has to give the okey to the appointment by the Government of Spain of the President of the Competition Authority! Hey, it's happening now! And here it turns out not. You want to steal from us, you, along with your Socialist Party partners, and I don't know if the rest of the groups are going to support this veto (this is a veto to be able to debate this), you want to steal from us the possibility of discussing something you are already doing in Spain, in this case in the Congress of Deputies, and here we are not going to be able to do it. It's remarkable, it's really amazing. This, hey, this we didn't make up. It is that you did not amend it in the process of the law in the Congress of Deputies, nor in the Senate, this paragraph in which the appointment of the Government was submitted to the good judgment of the Congress of Deputies! And it comes to me that five years ago we voted in favour of the law. Of course, the law is fine, the law is reasonable, but we want to perfect it and improve it. Or is it that the laws are immobile, Mr. Latxaga? Or do we not have the capacity to go perfecting and improving? Are we not going to debate the Basque Court of Auditors Act too because we believe it needs to be improved? And of course things have happened, Mrs. Corcuera. Of course, there have been remarkable innovations in the customs and customs of Basque politics. Sure! It's just that we don't trust each other, it's just that we have to improve these control organs, because we've seen that we can't trust each other. Have you ever seen...? Of course, it's just that a lot has happened in these five years, but there's been a remarkable one. Look, there has been a deputy general who has been appointed President of the Court of Auditors. In the course of the year, let me tell you that they have appointed a chairman of the Court of Auditors on behalf of a person who was still a Member of Parliament, from Bizkaia in particular. And we come here to say, "Hey, you guys, what are you scared of, but this is, put the bandage on first." Listen to the bandage before we don't: we're already hurt! We already know how you guys work sometimes. And what we want (actually, it has discovered us) is to prevent this from happening again. Indeed. And that is why we are also dealing with an amendment to the Basque Court of Auditors Act, because we did not want it to happen again, because we do not want them to fool us, because we do not want this House to be a guest of stone in the face of such weaves. And now we also want to strengthen this law, because it is a law that is passed in this House, because it is a law that allows the government to make certain appointments, and because we believe that this House can therefore also monitor and veto certain appointments. And who tells us that tomorrow the government in office is not going to appoint another deputy general in office, or former deputy general, president of the Competition Authority? Why not, if they've already done it? And this amendment that we are submitting to you, at least for the consideration of the opposition groups, since the Government is not prepared to introduce these elements of control and transparency and improvement of our system, is that it does not happen to us again. Hey, let's open a debate! We do not need to approve literally what we are proposing, but let us open a debate on something that is an objective threat, and that is that there are governments (in this case, the Basque) who are able to do certain things in our face. And we believe that this amendment of the law will also be good for you, because probably by approving these criteria you may not have to go back to the shame that you passed when you appointed a deputy general president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In the duel, Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u9	Yeah, let's see. Thank you, President. Mr Semper, you have started your speech by saying that you presented this proposal because of the need to open a debate to ensure the proper functioning of our control bodies, because it is necessary to abound in the criteria of transparency and independence and in addition to objectivity, and because it was necessary to sharpen spaces of rotating doors. Well, first of all, we need to open a debate to ensure the functioning of our control bodies. The Basque Competition Authority is no control body. Can you hear me? It's no control body. None, no. The Basque Competition Authority is an independent administrative body, which deals with the promotion and defence of competition. It is not the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which is something else, that is chosen in another way in which Parliament intervenes. It's different, totally different. So for our part there is no need to open this debate today. As I was saying, the historical thing, those of us who spent five years listening to the memories and reports of the Basque Competition Authority, we understand and believe that these modifications that the People's Party is proposing do not need. Secondly, because you believe it is necessary to abound in the criteria of transparency, independence and objectivity. There is no need to abound in these criteria, one hundred per cent in the case of the Basque Competition Authority, in all its reports. I told him again. With two matters involving the Government and this Parliament, the Tourism Act and the recruitment of school canteens from public schools, both reports were important, they were against what was being done by the Government, and nothing happened with those reports. They expressed themselves, no one had or did any interference in any of them. Therefore, criteria of transparency, independence and objectivity defended 100% by this Parliament. Loosen spaces of rotating doors. Well, perhaps you have a problem; you have put it on the subject of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which we Socialists also support the amendment of that body. And as for improving our system and tools of government, we socialists believe that today all the requirements are given for the proper functioning of our system of promotion and defence of the Basque Authority of Competition, as conceived by Law 1/2012 of 2 February, on the creation of that body. Because, in short, what has brought us here is not, I understand, a desire to remove a law that has only five years of development and that has not had a single case of interference by either the Basque Government or Parliament through the Finance Committee. Not a single case. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everybody. Well, today the news skips here: a representative of the People's Party says that the laws are not immovable. Well, skip the news, as I say, because it seems like they've kept a speech saying exactly the opposite these last few days. But, on the subject of this question, it does not seem, hearing Mr Semper and given the written justification, that the procedural moment chosen to present this initiative is casual, but rather that it seems to bring cause for the march of the previous president of the stroke, and it seems that what Mr Semper, at least it is quite clear to me, is a kind of preventive war. A preventive war in which the pre-emptive attack is intended to condition the future movements of all actors involved in this issue. And by the way, since the Zadorra passes through Vitoria, then, a little stain the good name of the stroke and its organs. I also draw attention to Mr Semper's argument, both in writing and right now in the gallery, about the rotating doors, because that of the rotating doors is an expression popularized by Podemos to go precisely against him. To go precisely against him, and especially against him. And I don't know if Mr. Semper is abducted, suffers from some kind of Stockholm syndrome or what exactly happens to him, but it seems that Mr. Semper apparently buys the argument, Podemos's argument. I think it's curious. And I say that you buy it apparently because you bring it to this House, you bring that bill to this House, when in this House you have little chance of success. And where you have many chances of success, and since you are now a member of the central executive of your party... He could make an apostolate among all the autonomic leaders who sit down in the mornings of the People's Party on Mondays, and he could speak with the different autonomic leaders, because most of the competition agencies are governed by parameters very similar to those of the Basque Competition Agency. I could start the apostolate there, as I say. And then it also draws my attention to the fact that the People's Party faces some of the other issues. A People's Party that..., raising its eyes a little bit and going to the Constitutional Court, so topical these days and that is supposed to be the maximum interpreter of the Constitution and guarantor of the rights and freedoms of citizens, has had and has among its members people with a People's Party card. Not just its members, but some other president. Someone like another president of the People's Party. With this it draws me very much the attention that you get into these eggplants and in shirts of eleven sticks. Look, Mr. Semper, this, what you're doing here today, has its own name in the Dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language. It's called hypocrisy. Hypocresis. Because it's very good to come here, to go up to this rostrum, to go up to this pulpit... Because there's an old Spanish saying that "it's not the same preaching as giving wheat." For you go up here, to this pulpit, preach, preach, only preach, while the Basque Nationalist Party has been distributing wheat to fill all the bakeries of Euskadi with flour. (Berbotsa) Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 54; white; 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u13	So it's not accepted. The bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Together, Mr. Bollain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u14	Good morning, everyone. It is not the first time that this House has addressed the question of how the members of a particular institution are elected, and specifically whether the conditions for their election make it possible for them to be politicized and, consequently, may affect the neutrality and independence necessary for the performance of the functions entrusted to them by those bodies or institutions. Nor is it the first time that the People's Party has presented itself in this regard as adalid and defender of the extreme of transparency and the need, as they say, of greater independence, impartiality and objectivity, in order to avoid the known revolving doors. That would have spoiled the thing, Mr. Semper, if it were not for the known trajectory of his party: Ángel Aceves, Bankia, Iberdrola; José María Aznar, Endesa; Rato, Bankia, Telefónica, Santander, among others; Josep Piqué, president of Vueling; Carmen Becerril, PriceWaterhouse Coopers... , to name only five people. It's a mess, Mr. Semper. And, Mr. Latxaga, we could also talk about your party. Furthermore, we cannot forget that this is not the first time that our group has questioned not only whether this initiative is necessary, but also whether this initiative is sufficient. And also from Elkarrekin We believe that once again the People's Party remains very short in its formulation, so we also wonder whether these kinds of initiatives are just a tactic to hide their irresponsible behavior, both in matters of transparency and in others that unfortunately we are witnessing these days. Last December 15th we said that an important part of Basque society no longer puts its hands on fire for its institutions, nor for its political representatives. We also said that a country agreement was needed so that, from the political and administrative level, all the institutions and their offices would be involved in this task and that we would have the most robust, credible and advanced rules, with the dual aim, on the one hand, of restoring public confidence in the administrations, and that the Basque administration as a whole would make decisive progress in defending the public interest and the common good. Our parliamentary group has abstained from this parliamentary initiative, as we understand that the bill put forward by the Group of the People's Party is not ambitious enough to meet the challenges that the Basque Competition Authority must face in the future, nor does it respond to a necessary, thorough and comprehensive reform of the system as a whole to face the revolving doors. And, as we have said on previous occasions too, we are convinced that once again we miss the opportunity to enter into a more profound reform, because at the heart of this initiative is only the imperative need for a washing of the face of the party to which you, Mr Semper, belong. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not fool us or try to deceive us by pretending to be what you are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Next, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u16	Yes, hello, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Gaur, botoren azalpena ematea tokatzen zaigu, and I think that today will touch us on those of Euskal Herria Bildu to be the discordant point of the whole debate. We have not voted against because we are against the way in which the positions proposed by the People's Party (on the contrary) are appointed, but because the debate can and should indeed go further. And I will take the floor to Mr Semper, who said that we are going to have to open a debate. Well, we are ready to open the debate. The change you propose is cosmetic. And on one side and on the other side, it's a make-up. And, in our opinion, a deep and just discussion is necessary, and will not. We could share with the People's Party the method of election for an organ of these characteristics, because if it is an autonomous body it cannot be allowed to have a political direction. Control mechanisms, public bodies, are in fact fundamental. The rotating doors, I think many and many here should take that into account. But what we cannot share is the unilateral objective and its functioning of the Basque Competition Authority, which puts competition as such above all else, in an extreme way, even above fundamental rights such as social, labour and even environmental rights. If we give permission to change today, we would protect this organ, and it is not our intention. A body that prefaces as a mission the so-called free competition to people, which marks political lines against social clauses, against rights, with even political maneuvers, because we have lived it first hand, cannot be a guarantor of people. From EH Bildu we pose a serious and profound debate with people and their rights as main protagonists, because within a competitive world, of course, we will always find losers and winners, and in this case it is not our goal at all. We admit that the authorities have done some very effective professional jobs. Besides, we have an example with school restaurants, and we'll have it here in the next few days. But in our opinion, it doesn't fulfill a social goal. We and we understand that consumers have rights and that of course we must protect them above all, well, but another model is possible, and that is why we question the role and strategy of the Basque Competition Authority. We believe that it is the solution that such an organ may be placed in another structure, in subordinate form, looking at other ends, so that it may perform an effective work. It is an option to take on, for instance, on an organ, that animates social rights; it would be an opportunity. We will discuss this with an initiative which will present us in the future in the legislature. Lo dicho, cojo la palra al señor Sémper, y abriremos el debatae. Bide horretan the kartuk gara, bai, eztabaidatzeko eta personen eskubideak lehenengo lerroan ipintzeko. On that path we will certainly find ourselves, in the debate we will find ourselves, but we will always put people's fundamental rights above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u17	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary group, concerning the serious situation in which several of the industrial companies of the Basque Country are suffering. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova has the word, present and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u18	Good morning, everyone. And I'd like to say special greetings to the representatives of several companies who are in crisis, who are here with us today. Others also discussed our intention of coming, but for the last hour they could not stay here with us. I want to congratulate these workers. Not only for the sake of being here today, but also for the exemplary struggle that is taking place in the defence of their corporations. And today we shall have two other landmarks of this struggle, in the wild beasts and in the Barakal, on the scaffoldings of Edes and La Naval, and the appeal of participation in these motives and in all that are to be performed and performed. Before the summer, Esscal society was shaken by the crisis of many great companies. When we thought that things were being solved in the macronomical terms, suddenly we met with a crude reality. CEL, CNA, FAgor, La Naval, General Electric, BSH, Xey, a list already known. It is true that it was the intention of EH Collect, when we knew these news, and immediately brought them to the parliamentary controversy about it. In July we brought this proposal to the legislature, and demanded that we discuss it. Unfortunately, the Popular Party, the PSE and PNV refused to discuss this in July. We believe that we have a right and need to answer this state of emergency with a grave answer, and go to Parliament in July to give an answer. I do not know whether we are going to fix the world here with this proposal, or not, but I think we had the right, in July, to act and to discuss with the urgency that the situation required. And I think it was very ugly to tell the workers of these companies, in July, that the debate on their situation was not urgent. Xey's workers, for example, will be able to send the resolutions of this debate to their home, so that they can put them alongside the dismissal letter they received in August. It's gonna be a joke. I'm going to start by referring to a phrase, to a question from the lehendakari who's been around me since I heard it. To the thread of the conflict, of the situation of the Naval, Mr. lehendakari raised himself and asked himself in public: "How is it possible that a company with workload is in this situation?". And I'm going to take that question and I'm going to reformulate it, although it's not here today and it's a shame, because I'm going to address it, given the seriousness of the issue we're dealing with, on several occasions. What I ask myself is: How is it possible that a Mr. lehendakari is not aware of the critical situation to which the Naval was avowed before? How is it possible that a lehendakari does not know that one of the main industrial companies in this country has been presenting alarm signals for years? How is it possible that you're surprised? Mr Lehendakari does not have to ask, it is up to him to answer, because a company of that size, of that importance to its socio-economic environment, a shipyard that is the largest in the country and the largest in the private sector in the whole State, which has since 2014 given itself the voice of alert on the part of its workers on mismanagement, that in 2016 a specific round was made with all the political groups by the company committee to alert about what came over..., how it is possible that when the crisis cartel is lifted the Lehendakari wonders how it is possible. And not only has it not been seen coming, but, once that crisis has erupted, it has acted with improvisation, it has acted by changing the criteria, it has acted with a will and with a changing discourse. There is still no clear position on the establishment of the tripartite table requested by the workers, or on public participation. There is no legal report that explores the different possibilities for the contribution of public capital to the company. And I have focused a little bit on this question of La Naval not only because it is hot today, but because it seems to me to be paradigmatic the attitude of the Basque Government towards industrial policy and the series of crises that we are experiencing. We could talk about CNA or Xey, companies entrusted to very bad managers, about which there was already a long-standing alarm signal and which they have not been able to give an institutional response in time to deal with this problem. And from companies such as CEL, in which – also mentioned in this House, but I think it is extremely significant – the Basque government's response was the scarecrow, selling their shares when they started to mispaint things, and in which they came to give such paradoxical situations as that, being the Basque government owner of a part of that company, that was a morose company that did not pay for electricity and that came to cut off the light. A company that was of all and all, and that didn't pay for the light. We could also talk about ACB and so on. We are not going to enter the company by company case, because we do not have time for it, but we do want to say that with all this set of situations we can determine that we are not faced with isolated situations, but with a very clear symptom. A very clear symptom of a problem we have in this country, which is a crisis of industrial policy. And I am not saying a widespread industrial crisis, because there is no need to fall into catastrophe or exaggerate. We understand that there are currently contradictory situations in industry and that there are sectors in which things are going well, because industry is a very cyclical sector and because from the outside it is pulling itself out, increasing demand, there are also companies that have done things well, and therefore we are not saying that we are facing the apocalypse. There is no widespread crisis in the whole industry, but there is a crisis in the industrial policy of the Basque Government. Because it does not foresee the difficult situations in which many companies are incurring, because it does not accompany companies in the proper way once these crisis situations break out, because it does not have defined instruments to solve these problems, and above all because it does not lead, by consciously elected inhibition, the transition to a stronger industrial model, that allows us not only to avoid this type of crisis in the future, although it is impossible to reach a time when there is no crisis... Obviously there will always be situations in which some companies can close, but we are talking about companies that, despite their diverse casuistics, all have in common the feasibility and the possibility of moving forward. And it is true that we come from a major crisis at global level, which in other countries has essentially had a crisis dimension perhaps in the real estate and financial fields and which here has impacted us very specifically in the industrial sector (we have lost, as a result of the crisis started in 2008, a large part of the industrial gross domestic product and jobs in this sector). And it is true that, as I said, the external push and the economic cycle change are causing some reactivation in general terms. But there are companies with great difficulties, and there are structural problems and deficits in this country's industrial model, which are not being addressed and which, of course, if not addressed, will lead to new crises and closures in the future. And again and again we've said that the EZAIN, even today, is confirming that there are no leaders in the industrial policy. And still more must we say: We must here confirm a story already spread, which is not productive of politics. There are some policies for the industry. Some things are done. We didn't come here to say that people in the government don't work, but that we say all the work they do lacks consistency, that the axis is lacking in the strategic direction. If we are all convinced that the biggest concern of the public is the economy, and if there is at least a theoretical consensus on the fact that industry is the backbone of the Basque economy, there is nothing more disheartening than listening to Mr Lehendakari, in the plenary of general policy, turning from points to points and not just mentioning industrial policy, and, in the few cases where he referred to that policy, with errors of bulge and with a manifestation that there is clearly a lack of strategic policy. Mr Lehendakari in the plenary general policy told us, as one of the achievements of this legislature or its government, that we have adopted the RIS3 policy as a novelty. As my aita used to say, "fresh news, ice is sold." The RIS3 policy was adopted three or four years ago, and we cannot now be sold as a novelty. We cannot be told that the Indartu plan is endowed with 84 million: it is 8.4, a coma jumped, not only in the speech, but also in the text that was passed to us in writing. That is to say, the lehendakari gives equal eight to eighty, because there is no other policy of territorial compensation than that reflected in the Indartu plan, and it is also a plan that is seeing its economic amount reduced this year. Or to mention as a success the agreement around ESS-Bilbao, in which what has been done is to cut public investment. And, by the way, we're asking the education counselor to show us what her plans are for neutron research, and we're waiting for her. And we also requested it in July. Nor was there any talk in the plenary of general policy on the substance..., which we have heard for years now about the creation of a fund that is supposed to be the star measure of the government's industrial policy, and in the plenary of general policy the lehendakari says absolutely nothing about this. So it is logical that we conclude that there is no industrial policy, and that it is not the result of incompetence or evil. It is the result of a political decision. It is the result of a political decision by a neoliberal ideological and economic school, which he says is that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist. And I commented on it in some committee, that when I looked at who had said that phrase, who I thought had been someone from the Chicago School or Milton Friedman, I realized that it was Mr. Solchaga, a former Minister of Socialist Industry. But, well, it seems that it has followers, that they think that the industry has to self-regulate, and that the only ones they are responsible for designing industrial policy are entrepreneurs, and that the role of the government is to inhibit itself. Eta guk uste dugu, henera, hori de la politica edo jarrera orokor bat, Gobernu honor dagokionez. When this Government presents us with its fifteen strategic objectives, and we speak from this rostrum another time about the absolute lack of ambition of those country objectives, what do they tell us about industry? It tells us that we want to reach 25% of industrial GDP. What position are we in? In the 24th. What strategic country goal is that? What ambition is that? It's coming to my head... I'm not asking here to make five-year plans, I'm not talking here about absolutely strange things, but I'm thinking of a Kennedy phrase that said, "We chose to go to the moon not because it was easy, but because it was difficult." And that is how it leads a country to achieve goals, with realistic but complicated goals that pose a challenge as a country, and by articulating the productive, social and economic forces of that country to achieve those goals. And what is the ambition of this government in the industrial field? to go from 24% to 25%, something that will be achieved per se and out of pure inertia? Where's the ambition? Where's the leadership? Where's the politics? Where's the difficulty? They're getting very low! We have already reviewed the rest of the Government's strategic objectives, and we realize that it is a general focus. The government in front of the economy is satisfied with being notary of what is happening, taking note and not being a protagonist. And that for the industrial sector of this country is highly worrying. We need to propose more ambitious objectives, not only to respond to crisis situations such as those we are experiencing, but also to anticipate them in advance, to detect them, to monitor the economy and strategic enterprises of this country, and to understand that before the red light is turned on we must already take precautions and measures on those impending crises, before they break out, because then sometimes we no longer give time and we go too late. It is not only a question of monitoring this; it is also a question of establishing intervention protocols, agile protocols, which do not have to be the workers behind the government, but it is the Government that, from the zero minute, makes itself available to companies to put all its resources in favour of saving those jobs. And we also need financing mechanisms and mechanisms that can be activated automatically in these situations, and not have to improvise company by company. And besides, we need to reflect on our future industrial model, and we see that there are hangovers, diseases, and privations, and that nothing is done in front of it. We believe that there must be an extensive agreement in this society about our industrial model, and then they must be articulated, because we are talking about the axis of our economy. We need a hundred industrial technological and advanced. And we continue to meet with companies where low technological value predominates, with a RIS3· strategy on which to talk, but which starts to give symptoms of exhaustion, and with an investment in R & D that falls year after year. We need an ecological industrial model that reduces its energy consumption, that we do not remain anchored in that ridiculous, shameful 7% of renewable energy produced in this country, and also make this energy transition an opportunity to develop technologies and industries. We need to correct the territorial imbalances, when we see that there are whole Skualdes, such as the Left Margin, Meatzaldea, Enkarterri, Oarsoaldea or Aiaraldea, which had a prosperous industrial past and which are today in absolute marginality, and that the few initiatives that are taken are at the request of others, while the Government does not devote a strategic intervention to correcting these territorial imbalances. We need an industrial model anchored in the country, where there are no more cases like Gamesa, ITP, Euskaltel, General Electric, relocation of production or decision-making centers. We need productive diversification, more end-product, and a socially fair model, which is not up to employers. Because one thing is to defend businesses and another is to defend entrepreneurs. We have to anticipate situations, we have to act, we have to lead, we have to think in the short, medium and long term. But there's a lack of a model. There is a lack of a model, and what is at the moment is pure follow-up towards employers, pure follow-up towards a Confebask that designs in this country labour policy, fiscal policy, economic policy and industrial policy. This is the picture, this is the picture of this government's industrial policy. [[Shows a photo]] This is the picture of this government: five councillors and the lehendakari, gathered in full with the employer. This is not an ordinary meeting, this is not an ordinary meeting; this is a covenant of vassal, this is a symbol of submission. Falling the one that is falling into labor policy, with all the problem that we have with wages, with taxation, with industrial policy, this photo that is taken in July, in the midst of the outbreak of all these corporate crises, is a photo that says "You decide for that mouth, that this government is going to fulfill". And in the meantime, we have the president of the main party that supports this government, Mr Ortuzar, making incendiary statements against the unions in the Alderdi Eguna, statements that since Margaret Thatcher's time I haven't heard any government, saying frontally to the unions "You're going to have to face us." While there is vassal towards the employer, the unions are told that they will be faced. I don't know if Mr. Urkullu...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u19	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u20	... it will also need mediation to rebuild relations with the unions, which currently has practically broken, but, of course, a government that takes so blatantly advantage of the employer is not a government that takes into account the services of the majority. Espabilad, we're playing a lot. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u22	Good morning, everyone. Firstly, of course, I want to move from our parliamentary group, from our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos, once again our support and solidarity with the workers, thousands at the moment, who are at risk of their jobs in different companies in our country and in different industrial companies, which is precisely the subject of debate in the House today. Our group in July also understood that this situation was serious enough to raise – and we made it public – the need for the Basque Parliament to have a monographic debate on this issue. Finally, that approach that we were doing did not garner the necessary support, and we did not have that monographic debate. Well, today we have this debate. We have ten minutes to express our opinion on this, and we are going to try to explain why it does not just seem to us to be a serious issue, but it seems to us that what we are talking about is not a short-term issue, and that is why we understood that we needed a monographic debate. It is not a short-term issue, but it is the evidence of serious, structural problems in our industry, in our industrial sector, which we all certainly consider, or have heard on more than one occasion, which must be the core sector of this country's economy, and to which special attention must therefore be paid. The situation of gravity has been evidenced in the summer months in a chain of companies with serious problems that were known and made public, but with problems that came before; that they were not specific issues that came out at a particular time, but that they were problems that already existed and that were in our industrial companies, in many of them, some very important, as has been seen for example in the case of La Naval. But, in addition to the chaining of important companies and those which depend on thousands of jobs, during the summer months we have a second element which of course makes our group question us, at least, that we have to reflect in this Parliament on whether the problem is cyclical, as the groups that support the government defend, or it is a structural problem, as we defend from our group. There are indicators that go far beyond what we have known this summer. The weight of our industry in relation to GDP is one of them. We have talked here about the objectives explained by Mr Urkullu of rising from twenty-three or 24 % to 25 %. The reality is that in 2008, before the crisis began or the crisis hit our country, in Euskadi the percentages were 25%, when earlier this country had had a much greater weight of industry. Therefore, we must look at the longer term, and this is what we understand, in order to try to understand or admit that the problem is structural, and it is not a problem that is only the product of the crisis, which has logically affected and we are certainly not going to deny a reality, nor is it a short-term problem of a number of companies that are not well known why, or simply by bad means, they have entered into crisis this summer. And a third element that makes us reflect on whether the problem is cyclical or structural: the opinion of the unions. We already know that for some parliamentary group or some parliamentary group this may not be relevant; for us it is very relevant, because it is the opinion of the agents representing the workers, in this case the industrial sectors. And all the unions in the country, with the differences that we know they keep between them on many issues, have taken the same view on this issue. And everyone has agreed to say that it is not a short-term issue, everyone has agreed to say that it is a structural issue, and everyone has agreed to criticise the industrial policy of the Basque Government and to point to the industrial policy of the Basque Government as part of the problem and not as part of the solution at the moment. That's why we keep that position. We believe that this is a structural problem, and we say that there is a failure of the government's industrial policy. Not because there have been a number of companies that have gone into serious crisis this summer. Entering into a serious crisis this summer is the consequence or evidence, one of them, of precisely that failure of the industrial policy of the Basque Government. We wanted to point out today three elements of that failure of industrial policy (at least three elements, in the time I have), that we believe they must be corrected and that we believe that they also show the problems of our industrial policy. One of them is the lack of a real and dignified alternative to the thousands of jobs that are lost and that have been lost for years in the industrial sector, in the sector that is, for us, as I said before, which should be the engine of the economy. Because it is not just creating jobs that compensate for the jobs that are lost. We all know, and so all the data says, that the jobs that are being lost for years in the industry are jobs that had more or less decent conditions, jobs more or less stable and with more or less dignified conditions. And the new jobs that are created, due to the shift in weight between the sectors of our economy and the new labour regulations that make it easier, lead us to jobs in much more precarious conditions. You already know the data: more than 90% of contracts made are temporary, etc., etc. We've talked about this many times. A second element, which we have already commented on more than once in our group and to me, seems particularly serious: the most obvious lack of control on the part of the Basque Government of public money for industrial policy, public money for business and public money for businesses in crisis. This has also been evidenced in several of the companies that have been in crisis this summer. Mr Casanova has set an example and I do not want to repeat myself too much, but I have already asked in this House about the case of CEL, and I have been given an insufficient answer: a company which has a public interest, which stops paying the light, when it has a public interest of 40% and of which the government hardly knew anything. Or the case of Xey, where the Administration practically learns that it comes into competition with creditors at the hands of the unions, when they were already in it. That means we put public money (which suits us well) to help companies in crisis, but we don't track what is done with that public money. And there are many companies that have demonstrated this way of acting, and this is a mistake in industrial policy that needs to be corrected. A third element, because I am running out of time, lack of transparency. There's a lot of propaganda in this government, there's a lot of photos and there's a lot of teleberri when companies open up or when a multinational is brought in, but then we lack information about what's done, or, as I said, what's done with public money. This summer I saw Mr Lehendakari on the television tell us that there were thirty-six companies that were being specifically monitored for their situation. Well, I wanted to ask, to do our parliamentary work and because it is an issue that concerns us and our parliamentary group, I wanted to ask about these companies, and with my goodwill I developed twelve written questions; I knew that they do not always have the best answers, but our capital surprise and indignation is that twelve written questions on this issue have been answered with half a folly. Half answer sheet for twelve specific questions. It seems entirely entrepreneurshipable to us. And the argumental basis for not giving an answer is that information cannot be public, when you ask things like how many workers it affects, or how many workers we're talking about. It's not data that affects companies, it's global data, and it doesn't even respond to that. And also in the answer itself we are told that they are not public, unless the department has granted some kind of help or action. We understand that in those thirty-six companies some performance has been done by the department, and no response has been given to it. Not an answer to the twelve questions we have asked the Government. Well, I'm running out of time, so I just have to say that the transaction we have signed with the proposing group has some elements of our amendment that we find very interesting. Support for workers' mobilizations, because the workers who are defending their jobs are not just defending their jobs right now: they are defending precisely the economic sector that all parliamentary groups have expressed, at least publicly, that we believe it has to be the engine of the economy. Therefore, they are on the street, putting on their batteries and defending what we and we had to defend more thoroughly. And a question to end, on the approach to trade unions. Because they have criticized the government, and the government has had more than one tone out on trade unions. And he told them, and in particular he told the ELA union, that they cannot get involved in political matters. And it's being told by an affiliate of Workers' Commissions, unsuspectingly coming here to defend ELA's particular interests. He told them he can't get into political issues like this. And I come here to say the opposite: trade unions have as much legitimacy as we have political organisations to raise socio-political issues. And you may not agree with them, it's absolutely legitimate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u23	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u24	...and criticize their positions. But they cannot be told not to intervene and not to have a socio-political opinion. We have an industrial problem, and the companies in crisis that have been shown this summer are a sample of that. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are emerging from the economic crisis, among other things because Spain is emerging from the economic crisis, industry is growing in general, demands are increasing, and so today I want to make it clear that it is not an industrial policy debate. It is a debate about certain companies and what has happened this summer with certain companies, some of them with many years of problems that have arisen this summer. We can talk about La Naval, with about 2,000 people affected, about CEL (230), CNA-Fagor (220), General Electric (135), Xey (170), Vicrila (about 300), and all this has emerged almost in the early summer as news. We are not going to talk about industrial policy failure, among other things because we have been co-responsible for many years and in previous economic crises, and we have helped all governments to take action in this country to maintain and support and there is better industry. But we do have to recognise that each of these companies is clearly a different problem. Each will be responsible, or not, for why they have come to this situation. But we are here today to judge the work of the Government, the Basque Government, in this matter and in this situation. And we have to say that there have been many statements in the media since July or August, contradictory statements ("We are not going to enter the capital of any company", "We are willing to enter the capital of companies"...), and all these surprising and contradictory statements, from members of the government, including the lehendakari, are made in the press. And what they suggest is that there is no direction, there is no direction in that industrial policy or in what the Government is proposing to try to solve and help in the problems that arise. And the lack of direction is obvious! When you're thinking we're not going in, and the next week we're willing to go in, but then I don't know if they're leaving me or not... We all know that there are mechanisms in the European Union that allow them to enter, and then I will refer to them. But what cannot be done is that the Government is in the media saying yes and no, with a week of difference and without explaining why. Second. When the news starts to come out, which was one of the things that surprised me most about the performance of this government, in mid-July the government takes the industrial plan out of the joke... No, no, don't do the counselor like that. It's just that industrial plan... It's just that we agreed with the budgets, of course. That is, when the budgets were approved here and the Budgets Act came, and we negotiated with the government the budgets, one of the conditions (well, I don't know if we were the only group, but of course the one that raised it and the one that reached the agreement) was that in addition to the plan to help entrepreneurs, the 2017-2020 industrial plan had to come this year. Of course, we had some meeting with the counselor for that plan (before all this, before all this), and that plan is obvious that it is much more complex and much more complete, because in addition to what it is about to grow in industry. It is not a measure to alleviate, I know, the crisis in La Naval, of course, but it is what the Government sold in mid-July. Yes, yes, yes! I read the press, too. I read the press, too. What did the government get out of that? Man, because the two largest groups of the opposition already in the country were against the industrial plan, without having read it, because this is another of the characteristics that we have in this country. They already gave birth, just why? Because the government was already misusing the industrial plan. I will give you a fact that is common to all members of the Government in these three months that have passed and that we are going through this situation. I'll give you the data. The fact is that the government has not come to this Parliament to explain anything. Not only has he not come to explain anything, but he still does not come to explain anything, and yesterday we were told that perhaps in November, in the middle, he comes, to explain to us what is happening, what is done or what is going to be done. When the lehendakari himself... We called for the Government to appear on 5 September, because on 30 August the lehendakari said that there were thirty-six companies affected, affecting more than 6,000 people. This is what the lehendakari said! Hey, we think it's very serious! We knew the ones in the press. Up to thirty-six... - No, no, no, Someone should explain something. No one comes to explain anything, not when asked, not at their own request. And this is a common policy of this government during these months with all these companies, with what is happening. I am also surprised, I think we were all surprised, when the lehendakari asked himself the question of how it is possible for a company with a workload to be bankrupt or suspended from payments. Man, I think the counselor should inform the lehendakari more, because the counselor knew, as we all knew a long time ago, what the circumstances were apparently leading to that situation. So, of course, it's at least surprising that the lehendakari on August 30th says "how is it possible." I think the counselor for at least a year has had time and opportunity to explain how that might have happened, and, finally, even if she didn't know the causes, she can imagine several, because we all have some imagination. A year ago (more than a year ago, but a year ago), the Basque Government gave news that it was novel in all this matter, and we told it and recognized it to the councilwoman, and we encouraged her to launch it, which was the famous investment fund. And we already know that he has problems with Brussels, but we know that it can be done and solved. We already know that this implies fiscal measures in which I do not know whether government partners are able to agree. Because, of course, if we want private entrepreneurs to come in, some profit has to be made, something has to be received in return, right? And the case is that today more than a year has passed, we have asked several times in committee before the summer what was going on with this, and in the end we see that time is passing and an idea that was good, that to us it seemed good, that if that fund today was in operation, maybe yes or maybe not, but it could be used to do certain things in certain companies... Not only to attract new investments, but we must also do so and that is why we are prepared to support the industrialization plan, but it is clear that this fund can have different branches for different actions. And the fact is, there's nothing, there's nothing about it, there's nothing about it, and every time I ask, in private or in public, then, "we're on it." And the "we're on it" means it's been a year and we have nothing. And, therefore – the representatives of La Naval are up there – it is clear that we do not have the solution, but I do want to remind the Basque Government of one thing, because the Basque Government has the competence in the field of industry, and for the Basque Government it is clear that it is its duty, and I have no doubt that the honourable Member..., is that I do not get the imagination that I am not trying to do everything possible to get all the companies going and going well. But the Councillor and the rest of the Government – because the Councillor sitting next door has also made statements on the matter this summer – must be told one thing: their obligation is that, but their obligation is also to come to this Parliament to explain the things that are done and those that are not done. Perhaps they have support, or perhaps they have no support, but what is unacceptable is that, with what has been falling since July, August, September, October, tell us that in November, in mid-November, it is possible for the Government to come and explain something to us about what is happening with companies in crisis, such as La Naval. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u28	Thank you, President. Welcome, workers from La Naval, and committees of those companies that are in crisis, that have problems. Welcome to this Parliament. The Basque Socialists share the concern for the situation that some companies in crisis are going through today in Euskadi, because after the crisis our economy has placed us in a different scenario. There is no longer a comfort zone for any of the companies, and even less for those who have survived during these years on the basis of oxygen, patches, or have not consolidated a competitive project. The situation of approximately a dozen companies in extreme difficulties was already known. The institutions have been working with the owners, and also with the help of some of the company committees, in the search for solutions. In some cases the business decision has been unknown, it must also be said, by the Basque Government, as was the case with Edesa, but in the rest, given the difficulties they were going through, it has been possible to analyse the situation and to put remedies on the road. Therefore, the crisis of these companies does not arise in June or July, but has arisen a few months earlier, and the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure had been working with almost all of them, with those companies that are currently in crisis. Taking into account the difficulties these companies were experiencing, it is also important to place these difficulties in the Basque industrial context; a context – said earlier by Bildu's representative – that through macroeconomic data or the industrial agents themselves are transmitting confidence and confirming an improvement in the industrial sector. The whole cluster of the industrial conjuncture observatory confirms this upward trend, this improvement in the industrial sector, and no sector in particular refers to a situation of special concern associated with an exclusive sector. But it is true that the reality of some companies in very difficult, very complicated and crisis situations puts them in this context of the difficulties that the industry is going through, of the requirements for the Basque Government to intervene and to mediate in order to find a satisfactory way out. And in this area of mediation, intervention, we Basque Socialists too have lent ourselves – as the company committee of La Naval and other companies knows – we are publicly and personally committed to them, to those committees, which have asked for our support and we are working with them and we will continue to do so, to the extent that the workers require us, because their aspirations for the future of their companies are also our aspirations, also those of the Basque Socialists. Because industrial policy imports workers, workers, but also entrepreneurs, also imports managers and owners of these companies. And I would also make an appeal, taking advantage of the juncture and debate in which we are in, and would also make a call for social dialogue. It would also make trade unions, trade union representatives and trade union representatives look into and reflect on this commitment to social dialogue, which is needed more than ever in this situation, at this juncture in Euskadi, and some of them refuse to be part of the Social Dialogue Bureau. I would call for union unity in this aspect of social dialogue, which I believe is key and important at the moment. The intervention of the Basque Government towards industry in general has resulted in a provision of instruments for firms in difficulty, also instruments of competitive improvement for new investments, for investments in R & D, to generate employment; it has resulted in actions for long-term investment in strategic projects, and in special attention to those areas that we have classified as disadvantaged (the area of the Left Margen and also Oarsoaldea). And in the case of firms in difficulty, the Government has acted with the criterion of taking care of each company. Each company is a world, each company has its problems and its difficulties, and in some cases some have nothing to do with others. The resolution of problems must therefore be individualised and different in each of them. In the event that the Basque Socialists have dealt with us, we have tabled an amendment together with the Basque Nationalist Group, an amendment that takes from a broad perspective, we believe, the actions to be carried out by the Basque Government. Our amendment reads as follows: "The Basque Parliament, in the face of the serious and worrying situation facing different Basque companies (La Naval, CNA, Xey, CEL, Ofita, Ingemar, General Electric...), expresses its support for the workers concerned as well as their families, and undertakes to ensure that public institutions and socio-economic agents manage each and every case from the responsibility of each agent. It is up to the institutions, each within its sphere of competence, to accompany, monitor, assist and seek solutions that guarantee a viable industrial future and the maintenance of jobs. This Parliament considers that the Basque industry as a whole, businesses in crisis and workers deserve the support of this institution and of society as a whole." For this reason, we show our concern and transfer our solidarity to the workers concerned and our support for each and every effort to safeguard their jobs and industrial activity. We urge relevant actors, "as long as exits are agreed, to push for appropriate measures to ensure that the impact on the family, staff and work situation of all affected persons is as little as possible". We ask "the administrations and all the actors involved to work together and actively to ensure productive activity and safeguard jobs, knowing that the loss of jobs, in addition to being a drama for the situation of the people concerned, harms overall the areas in which the companies in crisis are located". We urge "the addressees and owners of these companies to make all the necessary efforts and to seek ways to maintain the activity of their plants in Euskadi. We also demand that they revalidate their commitment to the economic and social development of the country and to employment." We call on the Basque Government, within its remit, to use all the instruments that can facilitate the recovery of full industrial activity and to help mitigate the impact of this crisis on the situation of workers (legal and technical advice, credit, etc.)". In this regard, we consider it key that the Basque Government "realizes as many mediation and interpellation efforts as possible in order for companies to start a genuine negotiation with workers to ensure productive activity and the maintenance of employment". We ask "the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure to review, in the face of the threat of relocation or destruction of employment, how many contractual agreements or economic relationship it maintains in the form of aid or subsidy with the companies concerned". We consider it "necessary for companies to discuss with workers a negotiation in rational terms, in the idea of seeking decent working conditions that, at the same time, allow business stability at times of difficulty". We also call on "business leaders to keep employees and institutions informed at all times of any new developments and developments that may occur". We reiterate "our commitment to the Basque industrial fabric, the engine of our economy. The daily effort made by our companies is fundamental in consolidating the country's economic recovery." This is our amendment, this is our contribution, our grain of sand in what can be worthwhile for your situation to improve, because it will also improve the situation in Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u30	Madam de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. This PNL, we're in charge of today, comes from the July past. EHGG introduced it to force an emergency debate on the permanent Diet. Reason: That he had appeared in the media in some kind of significant companies where the closure processes were being run. When the Industrialization Plan 2017-2020 was approved this month, whose debate was pointed out for this very month of October, it seemed more logical to bring the debate on industrial policy to that point. But no. You did not want to make industrial policy a debate about how it is built, but to destroy it from unfortunate, timely events, no matter how much they occur simultaneously. And events that cause emotional reactions in Basque society. And all with the sole objective of blaming the Basque Government, without wanting to go into discussing at any time the policy that needs to be developed. At that time we suggested an alternative, which was nothing other than to subscribe to an institutional declaration that began by solidarizing this House with the workers affected by the companies in crisis, it continued to urge the different actors concerned to minimize the impact on the affected and their families, and we called for the involvement of the different institutions according to the tasks they had to do. It did not seem appropriate to them, although I suspect they agreed on the whole document, but they preferred to have a debate by the Permanent Chamber of this House in July, as if they had taken the government into a resignation. Overacting, and oversize what was happening. For his part, Elkarrekin Podemos did not want to subscribe because he was engaged in his monographic debate, although they were insisted that this monographic debate was planned and will be held on 16 October. In essence, once again, the partisan protagonist in the face of an overall agreement of all the political forces of this Parliament, an aspect which, by the way, gives much more strength to any political stance. That's why I suppose what we've done won't make you weird. We've brought that statement as correction. For we believe that those who have been said remain firm. I'd ask EH Collector and Podemos to join them, because it's a good time to make an institutional announcement, show the injured workers a solidarity, and demand the institutions to be able to get along with all their forces. But, it is true, politically they are too burdened to go by the hand of the PNV in a declaration on industrial policy. I will tell you, although you have already made progress: we are determined gamblers of the liberal economy, of a rolling economic model of the Basque working class, and we are extractors of public money to distribute it among the powerful classes. Well, you save them the speech and even the savings they have to think about, but it's just that they're so repetitive that your speech is already recited as a mantra. See, that speech would do you good if we heard it come out of your heart, out of your soul. But no. No, no, It comes out of their guts, at best. It is an opportunistic, political discourse to seek the time to exploit a short-term situation of a few companies to take advantage of it, and, by raising the megahertzes, to pretend to provoke a feeling of discomfort far superior to that which is actually being lived. And I don't take it frivolously. We are concerned about what is happening, and we are working (well, the Basque Government is working mainly) with intensity to alleviate and minimize the damage, but to the extent appropriate, and not as if the country were sinking. Not at all, and a thousand times not. Quite the opposite. For example, pre-crisis industrial employment has recovered in the past year (23-24%); 23,200 industrial jobs have been created. They wanted to put a loudspeaker not on what was happening, but on their criticism of the government, pointing out that Parliament urges the government – that is to say, in the original GNP – to develop a genuine industrial policy. What are you doing? What is the government doing? Perhaps he is not doing his (his, EH Bildu's) true industrial policy. But, of course, the government does not, among other things, make its industrial policy because it has no idea what it is. You don't even know it, and, if I'm in a hurry, it doesn't exist. If I stick to your party's background in institutions and your sensitivity to making plans and programs, then we already know. Your model of industrial policy is that the government does not have it, so that every time a company suffers a crisis, whatever it is (in the form of ERE, closure or any other form), you put that speaker in the bag all day, draw a tragic picture, and blame the government exclusively. In fact, Euskadi's production rate rose by 3.2% in one year, and in August (present-day data) by 5.1%. According to you, if for fifty-two weeks of the year there is no crisis in any company, that is because companies do it well, the economic situation is favourable, or the majority unions are responsible, but the government and its planning seem to have nothing to do with it. But then the truth comes. It is that the government has plans like industrialization, that we will see next week; that of entrepreneurship, that we saw this same week and that liked the different groups, by the way (in the speeches liked), that we discuss it; it is a strategic plan of gastronomy... What is the smart specialization strategy, the PCTI, the digital agenda, the energy strategy? They are plans, plans with the aim of advancing to a more modern, more specialized and more competitive industrial sector, in an increasingly complex world, in which it is enormously difficult to position oneself from specialization, innovation, and above all from imagination. Those plans they have are supports and levers on which companies rely to grow. And so the Basque industry billed in July a 7.1% more in that same month of 2016. You were with me recently at the Hannover Industries Market. There, there were about 40 companies, not a few. I think your people at that market were ours if we consider how many companies' exhibitions were there for the square subways of the country. It is quite common for institutions to hear complaints when they approach economic sectors and ask for more support or attention from administrations. Can you tell me if you heard any of that in any of the companies you visited, which were quite, by the way (I'm a witness)? Can you tell me if you heard something different from a certain self-controlled optimism and a reflection on how bad they had been and how they managed to overcome the 2008 crisis to show some hope today not without fear? Did you hear any criticism from the government? Did you hear any criticisms about a lack of planning? And, by the way, more than half a ethovate were asked for a new plan for the gang machines because they were useful to them, and last week, when it was over, it increased the budget for the machinery' renov, which was from 9 million to 12. Who's the el plan renove, sino un aspecto dotal, una de pros palancas de una planningución? I can assure you that if things were wrong with you, we would have found out at that fair. Of course, in your opinion, they are doing well because they do well, that they are; because they have been able to innovate, that they are; even because they have been able to negotiate with the workers working conditions that will enable them to maintain that competitiveness, which also. But some planning will also have something to do with it, some of the aid plans coming from industrial planning will also have something to do with it. Or for you either? What can't be concluded is that, because they are in crisis La Naval, Xey, Fagor, CNA, CEL... Whatever they are, it is because the Basque Government does not have an industrial planning. At best, you could say that it was incomplete planning, that you were unable to contemplate the universe of possibilities that could happen in the global economic-industrial system. And that's true. The industrial planning of the Basque Government does not cover everything, because it cannot accurately predict all developments in all global economic variables. And, above all, it does not contemplate the way in which each and every entrepreneur in the Basque companies is managed. Because, in short, how many companies are going to close this year? How many in crisis, but passive? How many are going well? How many are expanding contracts and increasing staffing? Look, in your opinion, the second ones are the fruit of business, and the first ones are the failure of the government. According to our group, the former are, first of all, a tear for the affected families, with which one must sympathize, and also a failure of a company, and a limitation of a planning that is impossible to contemplate the infinite situations that can be provoked. And the second is a good thing to do for businesses and to know how to take advantage of the advantages of government planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, Mr. Casanova, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u32	Well, for the first time, I have to say that I agree with the criticisms of several of the members who have spoken to me before me, for instance, that when Monsieur Damborea has complained, a scene which he asked for has been delayed. Yesterday, at the committee, we were right, and we're giving it back to him today. And we believe that when things are anxious, they must at last respond with anxiety and immediately, and cannot delay in this way. And I'm also right when he says that the industrial plan presented itself in an amphithelist, the critical wave that he was creating in public opinion in front of the closing prediction of many companies, and that the industrial plan should not be used that way. We can't forget that even at that moment, he had mentioned the bet and the impact plan on the July, and then disappeared from the political discourse, the chief physician's speech. And I agree with the Deputy Podemos, when he says that the answer he received is unacceptable, or the lack of answers to the question he asked himself. But I don't agree with the mention you've made about the budgets when you say that it was the result of the process of educating educating the budgets. It has another course, but in the budgets there were several proposals of the EH Collectors that agreed with what we're discussing today, and which PPk, PSOE, and PNV, had thrown back, for example, to get a supply of money in order to strengthen the weakest areas, invest more money in research and development, to put that famous fund in action, or to increase a certain quantity of relations and economics to the university. That was in the budget, too, and you said no. Mrs Corcuera said that she was breaking a spear in favour of social dialogue. Yeah, me too. What happens is that we are seeing what the employer's attitude is and we are seeing what the Government's attitude is. And the attitude of the Government, as I said in another debate, is not to try not even to mediate. I'm not saying he's on the side of the unions anymore. It is the attitude of the Government that has demonstrated the photo he had previously taught. Because I don't say that the government doesn't have to have relations with employers' organizations. Of course you have to have institutional relations! But it's one thing to have those relationships, and another is to turn so openly into a picture that what you're saying is, "We're really with you," when that picture can't be taken with the unions because their policies make the unions disagree with the government. And it's normal that unions, in front of a boss who's imposing a tax policy... Please note that in this Parliament and in this society there is a debate on taxation, in which the employer is intervening in such an active way that it is coming to neutralise the views of a political majority in the country. And it is imposing a counter-work reform, and you are aware of the debate we have there and of the problems that the employer's action is generating. And in labour policy we have an agreement from this Parliament calling for a general increase in wages, and we already know the counter-campaign that is being unleashed from the employer, and we know the blockade that they are imposing on collective bargaining. And, therefore, there is indeed no social dialogue, but there is no social dialogue because the employer is using the instruments that the legislation imposed from Spain allows her to impose her policies, and then this government is dancing to her water. And, therefore, it is logical that there are angry unions. I am not going to tell you whether they have to be or not, but I understand that there is a very conscious and very active attitude on the part of the employer to sabotage and mark the political agenda of this government, and that the government is yielding to this pressure. And I do not know whether, as Mr Telleria said, this is extractive capitalism, but I would ask you to look no longer at the literature with which you have dressed the history, but at the origin of the resources with which this government counts, who is paying taxes in this country and how it is evolving what is being paid via IRPF, what is being paid via VAT and what is being paid via corporation tax, and you will see how entrepreneurs are increasingly contributing a smaller part, they are becoming more and more insolidary, taxation is becoming more and more unfair. And if that's not that the poor are the ones paying taxes and the rich are paying less and less, then, well, call it whatever you want. And I take back the subject of the background. We are not going to accept an industrial investment fund that is an instrument to give tax benefits to an economic elite. We're not going to accept that. If we are to defend a fund that serves to anchor strategic companies to the country and to provide, in difficult situations, financing to companies that need it. And with regard to the July debate, you proposed that you wanted to make an institutional statement. There is time for institutional statements, and there is time for political debates. You can't curtail the right of other groups to disagree, no matter how much you think you're right. I think I'm right, too, but I listen to you and give you the opportunity to contrast those kinds of issues. Right now we have kept a minute of silence, and we have all joined together in making an institutional declaration against gender-based violence, but when the time comes to discuss what are the most effective policies against gender-based violence we will understand that each group will be able to present its proposals and there will be discrepancies. Because these workers what they needed was not a statement that I can very much agree with, a declaration of goodwill. Of course I know you have good will and, as Mr Damborenea said, the advisor will also want companies to... Of course we all want companies to remain open, but these people don't need a pat on the back; what they need is an analysis of why we have come to this situation, why there have been bandages, why the predictive mechanisms, the foresight mechanisms have failed, and why they have then failed, once the crises have erupted, the mechanisms to deal with them. And that has to be done through a political debate. And since you say you don't know our policy... Of course, the problem with bringing the written speech is that you don't listen to what you said before, and so you let go of what you were already planning to let go. I believe that I have done here an analysis in which, without falling into catastrophe or denying some of the macroeconomic data, I have done the same thing we do, for example, in the face of unemployment data, which can evolve in positive but we go to the small letter and there we see that behind is hidden precariousness or hidden loss of purchasing power. I mean, I don't deny most of the data, but I do understand that there are structural problems in the industrial model...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u33	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u34	And from self-congratulation, of course, we are not going to solve them, but through the debate. Debates of course it does not end today, but it will end in the debate on the industrial plan, where you will understand that we do indeed have proposals, and some of them will even please you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u36	Good. I have not made a single statement or accusation of that which you sometimes call easy slogans in my previous intervention. I have not talked about neoliberal policies, I have not accused the government of liberalism, etc. On the contrary, I have argued or tried to argue why our group believes or believes, believes and continues to believe that we are facing a structural problem, of greater or lesser gravity, but a structural problem in the main sector of our economy and in which it has to be, as I said before, the heart of our economy, and not a cyclical problem. Therefore, we do not accept the accusations of pretending to be frivolous with the subject or of wanting to draw political profit from a real misfortune, which is that a lot of companies have entered a very serious crisis situation in recent months. In fact, I have said – and I share that with several of the groups that have intervened – that the crisis situation of these companies has not come suddenly, existed before. And that has also been acknowledged by Mrs Corcuera herself, and I believe that the Government recognizes that. And, therefore, this is an element that leads us to think that we have a problem in industrial policy, because we believe that these issues in companies, some of them, that are strategic, or that they should be considered strategic by their different elements, such as the number of direct, indirect and induced jobs, as is the case with La Naval, if they have sustained problems in time that we are unable to solve or help solve, because we say that we have an industrial policy problem. When in July all the alarms about the accumulation of cases of companies in serious problems, of crisis, the government announced one day that it was going to present (so called it, and so I saw it in the Teleberri too) a shock plan. That's actually going out to the media in an effective way, to say, "Well, we have this here; calm down, we're going to solve it, we're going to present a shock plan." The Industry Plan was presented. The Industry Plan was introduced, not a shock plan. The media was told that a special shock plan was being presented, by all the companies that were in crisis at the time, and that the Government understood that they were short-term problems. And what was presented was the Industrial Plan, which, moreover, as has been said here, has already been elaborated, etc. Therefore, we are not dealing with a short-term issue, and we remain in that position. And, of course, we did not want a monographic debate either to make effect or to take political advantage of an issue that seems to us to be extremely serious; that I, of course, would never do as a worker as I am. Because jobs are what we and we can live with, and I, tomorrow, when I leave this House, will have to go back to looking for a job, and therefore I will never frivolize with these things. I share when calls are made for social dialogue and union unity, absolutely, but in many of these companies there is no union division. On the contrary, in many of these companies what we see is union unity in the face of the specific problems that affect them. Therefore, this issue does not necessarily have to do with it, because, as we have heard, in many of these companies the issue of wages, etc., is not the main cause of their problems, and therefore it is the subject of industrial policy to address these issues. We believe and have argued – I have argued – the reasons why there is this erratic or why this industrial policy fails. We, like everyone else, can be right, and so we think we are, or we can be wrong, but we have argued, and I will not repeat the arguments because I don't have time, but there are some very relevant ones. I will focus, because I have fourteen seconds left, on the lack of control over the public money we spend on industrial policy. It cannot be that we meet very important companies that have important public participation, and that the Government does not see the problems coming, or even worse, that in some case it does not understand these problems. We'll keep discussing it. And on 16 October there will not be a full monograph on this issue, Mr Tellería: we are going to discuss the Industry Plan. It's not the same. And we are going to be constructive, as we were the other day with the Entrepreneurship Plan, and we will make our contributions, but that was not a full monograph to discuss and reflect from the parliamentary groups on the scope of these problems; on whether it is a cyclical problem, which is their legitimate position, or a structural problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is clear that an industrial policy cannot be assessed because a company is either good or bad, or two, or three, or four, or five. It's a much more medium- and long-term thing. And obviously you have to look at the macro, which is the sum of the micros. Because the macro is not that it comes out of not knowing where; the macro figures come out of the micro, is the sum of all of them. Now, what I don't understand in some... Well, I get it, I get it almost everything. This from coming to demonize entrepreneurs, to Confebask, when we are talking about industry or employment, that I want to remind you that it is about creating more industrial jobs, or as yesterday we attended when the company committee of La Naval attended, that we have to look as soon as possible for an entrepreneur to solve the problems of La Naval, and come here to spoil the entrepreneurs and such... Well, one, I'm sorry, doesn't understand much. Nor do I understand that it mixes company tax with business. Because entrepreneurs, like workers, pay their IRPF, and corporate tax is paid by the company, and comes out of the company's money. Moreover, corporate tax would be reduced in any company if the IRPF were raised: if the wages of workers were raised, less corporate tax, because, of course, because there would be less money, less profit to the company. So, I don't finish understanding how at this point in the 21st century these speeches are still being made, confusing the company with the entrepreneur. Because that is how many companies have been harmed in this country, trying to harm the entrepreneur. Yeah. And we, of course, obviously cannot enter there. And, man, I don't know why Mr Telleria has set the example of the new machinery plan, because I think you were sitting there in 2009 when we put it as an amendment to Mr López's budgets, and I will remind you that your party felt fatal, made several initiatives asking for it to be removed. And it wasn't in any industrial plan, but then it is. Then he is. Because then your party asked you to keep putting yourself, in that legislature. Then, well, there are things that seem to look bad at first, and then it turns out they're good. Why? Because it allowed businesses in the midst of the crisis to reinvest some of their money, improve their machinery and improve their competitiveness. And it is clear that these are measures to be taken and to be taken, and that they should be included and are already included in the government's own industrial plans. And I don't know... Because now also in the previous point here we were talking about wheat and who gives wheat and who stops giving wheat. Also in the Congress of Deputies we didn't hear much about wheat and tractors... I think that if we move on from the primary sector and we all focus on the industry sector, and we all manage to agree, then perhaps things can be made easier and better. Of course, we are not in favour of trade unions, and we are not in favour of employers, but we hear them all, and we make our decisions. We're not going to towing anyone. But it is also clear that, for things to work in this area, on the issue of industry, if there is agreement from all social sectors, including employers and trade unions, then it will be much easier to create the conditions for the creation and maintenance of industrial jobs that may be at risk at this time. What I encourage everyone is to see if at least ten days from now we can agree on a medium-term industrial plan, which is clearly not going to be able to solve the specific problems of all companies, but has to lay the groundwork for us to increase these industrial jobs, and that we can increase the percentage of GDP. If we all agree that we must increase the percentage of GDP in the industrial sector, then let us all put in and put in the measures, but the measures that really serve. If we're going to come and do cheap demagogy, that the businessman is very bad and... well, then, gentlemen, I don't think any of them are coming, because of course no one is encouraged, with some speeches, to come. And what we are proposing is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u40	Thank you, President. Look, the Basque socialists believe that the competitiveness and sustainability of companies are in the hands of the agents who make them, and that from the institutions what we can and must do is to collaborate from different perspectives (from regulation, from taxation, industrial policies, etc.), and to make available to companies a framework and instruments that are adequate, on which they can freely rely to develop their competitive strategies. And I have heard a lot of speech and little concrete policy here today; I have heard a lot of demagogy, and I have not seen or heard what measures can be proposed either by Bildu or by Elkarrekin Pode, concrete measures to get the industries in crisis out of this situation. And I follow Bildu's non-legislative proposal, in which he expressed his concern, first point; he was against the attitude of the Government, second point; third point, to use all the instruments available to him, those of the Government (it is in the amendment that we have put forward by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group); to keep workers informed (that is not a measure to get companies out of the crisis); to put in place a special protocol (it is also put on the government agenda, how the Basque Government is going to act with those companies that are in crisis); to develop a genuine industrial policy (we have not heard what Bildu's is), and to show willingness to collaborate with workers and representatives in the management of crisis situations (which is something that is being done). Therefore, neither their GNP is the magic solution to what workers of the companies in crisis are proposing, nor anything like it. That's right, a lot of atrezzo, a lot of photo (fixed photo, by the way), and nowadays in politics in none of the sectors that covers politics is good to have a fixed photo, because everything is evolving, and we have to adapt and give solutions to those evolutions that are having the various situations. I therefore believe that what this is all about is putting black and white measures that the government can take to save the situation of those companies in crisis. And in the government agreement that we have signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party specifically there is a section that is about support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the restructuring of firms in difficulty, which points out how to act and what is being followed; there is another section of specific action plans in disadvantaged regions and municipalities, which also has an influence on those thirty-six companies that may find themselves in difficult situations... Black on white, here are the measurements. There is an industrialization plan that we will be discussing in the coming years and this legislature. And when there is little ambition on the part of the government, I have to point out that almost a year ago, or a year and a few days ago, that we were discussing in the middle of the election campaign about how the industry was in Basquedi, and at that time – and I remember, because some of us must have a little fragile memory – at that time we were criticizing that industry represented 22% of the gross domestic product, and that meant a real catastrophe to us, that index was catastrophic. Today we are, as we said, in the 24th, said Mr Casanova. Well, if that's not out of ambition for some miracle it will be, but, of course, I don't believe in miracles and I don't stick to religions either, I think it's the effort and the work that's behind it. And, of course, the Socialists, who also took on a government commitment, in industrial policy we made a bet and we are with it. We believe it will be fulfilled. Not without difficulties, sure, sure, nothing is all beautiful and wonderful, but in this case I would do less atrezzo, less demagogic, and more realistic proposals. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I didn't say it was a full monographic. I said a monograph, and I told him it was a monograph. It is a monograph on the industrialization plan. What is the industrial policy of the Basque Government? What is the industrial planning that you question? The industrial plan! That's a monograph about industry. You can use it to place... Another thing is that you are looking only now at companies in crisis, okay, but we were talking about industrial plans. Industrial plans. Now, you have criticized that there is no industrial policy. Yours? They don't have to have it, they don't have to have it because they're in opposition, but, man, when you criticize the one you're commanding, the logical thing is to present the alternative. What's your alternative? All I've heard is "a stronger industrial model." I've heard "a stronger industrial model." What is "a stronger industrial model"? What we have is liquid, gaseous, or mid-pension? What's "more solid"? Some more content could already give you! Well, in any case, the Basque Government will also continue to work for the companies in crisis, which are the ones that are most interested in them, and at this time the Basque Government too. Because if the planning goes well, that we all agree that the mega figures give us good, we will have to worry about the small ones, and that is where the government is working intensively. The problem is that making a unified protocol of everything cannot be, because it is not the same a company that enters into competition, that suddenly an entrepreneur says "I close my company in Euskadi and I leave", and the next day let's see a Toledo newspaper that says "And now I'm going to open it in Real City". Man! There is no protocol there, but the Basque Government acts, stands on the wall and seems to solve the problem somewhat. That kind of thing. The most normal is to enter into a business crisis, and from there the government goes on to fatten. He could not enter into negotiations, the Government had no negotiating power in a business crisis, but it fattened relations between trade unions and companies. And besides, the company belongs to the businessman, and when he enters the competition, he belongs to the judge. The government doesn't have to be there. But the government helps, advises, fattens relationships, and has plans and programs, such as Bideratu, so that, once they go out and have a viability plan, that's what they're looking for, when they have a viability plan, they come in and fund them with that viability plan. And if in a moment you can also enter the capital of the company. Minoritarily always, because, if not... The other day someone said that you might get in, and the next day you had three Brussels drivers at the door of your office telling you that you couldn't. And we are in Europe for good and bad. So, from there, we have a planning, the government has a planning. They may like it more or less, on the 16th we will discuss it. By the way, from here I offer that we try to agree as much as possible, try to agree and have the good atmosphere we had in the entrepreneurship plan. I'd like to, and from here I offer myself to it. Now, I'm going to... It's just that after what I've heard... What's your industrial plan? For example, three months ago the appearances of the paper by Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea ended, and they were told "Hey, before we write it" – the president of the paper – "they have two weeks, I don't know, to suggest things to us." Zero potato. Why? They're waiting for someone to write it, and shake it. The industrialization plan of the Basque Government was sent to all social actors. Do you know how many contributions the Basque unions have made? Zero. Zero contributions. Then, when it's written in powerpoint they'll criticize it, but zero input. You have to be more proactive from the beginning, and not wait for it to be written to shake, of course if someone wants to be an alternative to having offers. Look, I have to improvise, because I had a speech prepared, but then you're going to say... I'm not in favour of performance or fixed photos, but, look, as you've used it (I'm not a T-shirt player, I'm a propagandist)... : the councillor with the company committee of La Naval; the councillor with the company committee of Arcelor; the councillor, four councillors with entrepreneurs and trade unions. [[Shows some photos]] Well, this is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u43	Mr. Casanova, please wait...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u44	This is what I was able to improvise. You were able to prepare it, but I was not prepared for these performances. And in any case, finally, speaking of unions, I could add... You in your original GNP were talking about the government's ceasing to have phobia to the majority unions. Good thing he disappeared in part, because that meant, for starters, that with minorities he could have phobia. For starters. I would suggest that you can add a paragraph to your transaction to ask a majority union to, for starters, sit at any negotiating table that exists and is put on it, to sit on anyone that is put on it. And secondly, speaking of phobias, let him stop looking at the government and the PNV with so much pollution, because, on the one hand, he will be able to agree more often, and, on the other hand (and for his sake, for his sake), the pollution ends up producing stomach ulcer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the argument has ended, we'll put EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u46	So the middle-line correction hasn't been solved. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u47	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. We'll next vote for the entire correction signed by Eucabertists and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u48	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary policy of Podemos, the funding of the public transport of Eukadin. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mr Becerra, the representative of Podemus together, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u49	Well, good morning, everybody. Today I come to defend a non-law proposal related to the financing of public transport. Why? Well, because, obviously, public transport is today an essential service in our communities, and it is so much so that it is being asked from many areas to pass, to be a public service, to be considered a subjective right of citizenship, the right to the mobility of people; a right to the mobility of people independent of their personal and economic conditions, allowing for their individual and social development. Obviously, the greater the compliance of the institutions of this public social service, the greater and better the service is given, the greater its social function, generally the greater the cost of the service and, therefore, the greater the operating deficit it has. In order to get an idea, the urban transport of Donosti, the municipality, is barely self-financed by 57 %. Therefore, there is no cost-effective public transport, and that implies that it necessarily needs the support of the institutions. Here in Euskadi all the institutions support or have their own public transport: the central government has the railway lines; the Basque Government, the railway, the tram and the bus; the diputations, their buses, and the municipalities, buses, microbuses, car sharing services or even the loan of bicycles. However, the problem of financing public transport has a particular impact on the municipal level. On the one hand, because the municipalities are the most difficult institution to finance their competences, and, on the other hand, because they are the institutions closest to the citizenry and, therefore, those that have to respond immediately to the demands of this citizenship. For us to get an idea, the urban bus of Vitoria-Gasteiz in the last three years has assumed the city council 50 million euros, in Bilbao it is 32 million euros to the municipal arches last year, Donoti 14 and a half million, Barakaldo 25 million euros in the next ten years. And so indefinitely, starting from the larger municipalities to the smaller ones, which are precisely the ones with the most difficult funding. And yet in Euskadi we do not have a law that allows the financing of collective transport. The Municipal Law gives exclusive competence to the Basque municipalities in the matter of municipal urban transport, in its municipal term, but, however, it does not say anything about financing. It is regulated according to the rest of the financing of all other competences. The same is true in Spain: there is no express law, there is no express financing law, and only through local finance legislation and local system bases is a line of subsidies given. Unequal subsidies, irregular and unpredictable subsidies, which, yes, allow municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants to have income from which, however, the Basque municipalities are deprived. For us to get an idea, Valencia and Zaragoza receive 6 million euros a year; Seville, 5.5; Malaga, 3; Palma, 2.6; Granada, 2.2... And yet, the Basque municipalities nothing. The only one who acceded to this grant last year was the City Council of Donosti, and received 10,000 euros. With these limbs, the Basque municipalities have a problem of financing their municipal public transport, and that has very clear consequences. The municipalities that have problems with financing it have two ways: one, to increase the rates; two, not to increase them and, therefore, to give a worse service if they do not have enough money. Increasing tariffs means that those users who do not have sufficient economic level will be adversely affected by their right to mobility and, therefore, as I mentioned at the outset, to individual and social development. If the municipalities assume the cost of the social bonds they have an additional handicap, and that is that the social emergency aid does not cover the transport movements. For this reason alone, Donosti last year stopped paying an additional 2.2 million euros. Therefore, we have a problem, whether we want to see it or not, and it is that the municipalities, in addition to all the rest of their competences, have a problem right now to finance the competences of municipal urban transport. Today, the public contribution per trip in Vitoria-Gasteiz is 1.21 euros; in Bilbao it is 1.26 euros; in Donosti (they are much better) it is only half a euro per trip, but even so, the municipalities have to be financing the travel of citizens. What possible solutions are there? Well, here comes our non-law proposal: obviously, have a Basque municipal funding law. Why? Because, on the one hand, such a law would allow us to guarantee that right to mobility to which I referred at the outset, and on the other hand it would allow us to finance the public service with objective criteria. Objective criteria that we say in our proposal can be the degree of coverage of the service; the social function that is covered and therefore the social tariffs that apply; the degree of energy efficiency of the means of transport used; the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (which I have to remind you that 40% of climate change is generated by transport); the reduction of pollutant emissions (which also 70% of pollutant emissions are produced by private traffic in cities)... Any objective criterion would be valid. And our proposal was open to consensus, it was open to input from the groups. They have not been done; only the groups that support the government team have done so. And yet, it has not been possible to trade. It was not our intention to close down the criteria that such a law would have to have. Nor was it necessary for it to be a specific law. We welcomed the possibility that the sustainable mobility law being prepared by the Government could contain these criteria. And yet that has not been possible either. We therefore regret that the groups in this House today do not see a problem which is a very serious problem, it is a very important problem. In the previous electoral campaign in Vitoria-Gasteiz there was a real revolution with the canon of the capitality, which barely amounted to 1 million euros or 5 million euros, and we have that Vitoria-Gasteiz is devoting 50 million euros in three years to finance municipal public transport without having any help either from the government or from the parliament or from the government of the state. And, therefore, I would like the groups to appreciate to the right extent the proposal we made, because, whether it is approved today or not – and it will obviously be difficult to get ahead – the problem is going to continue tomorrow, the problem is going to continue past, the problem is going to continue in 2018, and it is going to be more and more serious, because the municipalities are increasingly having a more serious funding problem. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Briefly. There are some things that agree, sometimes not so much. Often, well, we can agree in the heart, but then we may not be so much on the way. We have always conceived public transport as a whole, not just urban transport, as a sustainability bet, and of course, as long as we have public transport, we understand that in some way that subjective right to mobility is already recognized, as long as it is not an exclusive service or that it requires some requirement beyond the economic, to pay the ticket, in order to make use of it. We have always conceived public transport not as expenditure but as investment, and therefore as an element of social cohesion, also as an accomplice to economic development. Finally, sometimes it is true that a support expenditure has to be incurred, let us say, by adding private transport, but, in the end, I think it is not an expenditure but an investment. I can really share a few things with you, but first of all I believe that, in accordance with the legislative timetable, the fact that the Government has incorporated a law, which is the law of sustainable mobility, which in its objectives, in its character, in its definition fully coincides with what the Socialists proposed in our programme of government, covers, to a large extent, much of what you can say. And, moreover, I would dare say that not only part of what you say, but I even consider that in your goals it is even more ambitious. Why? Because you have somehow given me the feeling that you have adhered to the economic issue, which is very well, that I understand that it is something that primarily to the people that we have had government responsibilities in a city hall, because, generally, it generates some discomfort, but it has caught my attention one thing. You have repeated on more than one occasion that the municipalities do not have financial assistance from other institutions to cover this expenditure, and it may be true that there is no specific item, in this case in Basquedi, by the outlaws, which are the ones who really have competence in this matter, shared competence with the municipalities in the case you point out, but there is one thing called the Municipal Financing Fund, which, among other things, serves to finance the municipalities and to ensure that these municipalities provide public services to their citizens. So, somehow I understand that flank is covered. The fact that you are also talking uniquely and exclusively about subjective law and we are only talking about urban transport, because it also raises certain doubts to me, in so far as, in some way, if we are only going to stick to that issue, to the question of urban transport, I understand that that right you point to is not a universal right, but a right that is unique and exclusively to those places, to those municipalities that have their own public transport. And that there are even localities in rural environments that do not have any transport. Well, well, there we have a challenge, but of course it is a challenge that is not only going to be met in the parameters that you point at us, but going beyond all that. As I was saying, we had a concrete proposal, which was the law on sustainable mobility, in our electoral programme, which, as I told you before, is incorporated into the government programme. And he said that this proposal was more ambitious than his to the extent that it goes far beyond the question of financing. That it is very good that we guarantee funding to have public transport not only urban, but interurban, competitive, efficient and at a price commensurate with the needs, economic circumstances, not only at the global level, but at the particular level, of the different collectives to which it serves, but I understand that this law goes beyond. That's why I was telling you that I understand that you're late and a little bad. A little bad because, as I was saying, I understand that there is a certain substance missing from your proposal. And this law of sustainable mobility has the objectives of, among others, enhancing public transport itself (it is not worth financing, but it must be strengthened). We must ensure good service, an optimal service that covers all the needs of the population (as I said, if you focus on the issue of urban transport, there is the flank of long-distance transport I understand that quite sideways). Let us rationalise the supply, let us make it truly effective; that there are no duplications and that, therefore, there is no cost added to the administrations, an expenditure which may be unnecessary, which may at present be given; that, in fact, that law provides for economic and technological cooperation between the operators themselves, between the various services; that it enhances intermodality, and above all also – which I agree with you here – that promotes more sustainable means, not only by making it more economical, more competitive, but also by contributing to the environment and to curbing climate change. I would like to ask you a few questions, because in my little parliamentary experience, both in this Parliament and in the boards, when I made a proposal for a general rule, or in this case if it was up to me to make a proposal for a law, or at least to make progress on the need for a law, I believe that these needs issues must be supported by numbers, by examples. I do not know if in any way you have done the exercise of analyzing what cost, what objectives, what flanks should be covered so that the law that you propose is truly effective. I don't know if you have valued that cost, or really if with what you propose that cost would already be perfectly covered, because then my question would be: So what do we need the law that you propose to us? I therefore clearly announce to you the Socialist Group's vote against, for these reasons. I believe that at the moment, and given that the legislative timetable is being presented and already envisages the drafting of this preliminary draft law on sustainable mobility, I would ask you in some way: let the Government act, let the Government work, and let us, in view of the preliminary draft that you present, try to improve it, let us try to make it more effective and more efficient, and, above all, let us ensure that this law is a useful tool for improving this important public service as it is for public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u53	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good noon to all. Mr. Becerra, as you may understand, our team will not support the demands made in your initiative, and I'm predicting beforehand that we'll vote for the initiative we've represented. In fact, we think it's important to notice that in June 2030 The Consistent Transport Guide Plane and, as Mr. Andreez said, it's either contained in the legislative calendar or predicted that the legalism of permanent motion was sent through this law. Thus, as we received it in correction, we believe that it is proper for this law-government to raise or combine the financial model of transport from a view of long-term permanence, always considering all the cost connected with that pattern, as we say in correction: economic costs, social costs, even environmental costs. That doesn't mean that we don't agree with all the ideas and concepts you get in your initiative in the statement that we're not in. No, it's not. You have already remarked that the collective public transportation is a key to the working of our people and cities, and that reasonable prices facilitate the motion of persons, or that public transportation is one of the pillars of sociality. And also, a good system of public transportation helps to reduce levels of contagion, and use less energy in offsets, etc. We agree with these ideas, because, after all, it is essential to develop a good public transportation network in order to achieve a more clear, more certain, and more effective mode of motion. But at the same time you mention them in your initiative, or make certain statements in order to establish your demands, which you have here shown more fully. For instance, you mentioned the paradox of a collective public transport: The more social and environmental vocation is to serve as social and environmental services, the more extensive exploitation is produced, the more expensive it is for the public safes and the financial problems which it entails. And you mentioned, too, in the degree of Europe, and in other places, that certain unbalanced laws have been allowed to oppose them in the finances of the transport. On the other hand, you mentioned today that it is necessary to transfer mobileness from public service to a subjective right, and to ensure that it is necessary to make a stable and sufficient funding. You mentioned that neither in Spain, nor in Basques, there is no law at the present day for financing public transports, and that the deficits which may be present in the exploitation matter have an influence on the price and price of service, and even on the quality of service to the people. And you insisted on the law of 2/2016, that even the law which regulates the Basque Offices did not regulate this matter, although the institutions which the township has most difficulty in support of the collective public transportation services of their fertility. In other words, we understand that what was intended by this initiative was for Parliament to urge the Government to draw up and present a law on the financing of municipal public transport, a law on the financing of urban public transport. For what they said in their explanatory statement and what they said today, we understand that this was what was mainly asked of us. We believe that, taking into account the reality of our municipal sphere in the Basque municipalities, we must bear in mind that in the historical territory of Bizkaia, for example, only Bilbao, Etxebarri and Barakaldo have a bus, an urban transport; in Gipuzkoa, Hernani, Rentería, Toulouse, Zarautz and Donosti, and in Araba, Gasteiz. The rest of the municipalities do not exercise this competence of their own, while the long-distance lines managed by the outlaws provide the public transport service to their neighbours. In other words, there is a need to ensure a stable and sufficient financing of this service, when it comes to the municipalities, the municipalities, who, in the development of this own service, of their own competence, should analyse its actual cost, as is the case with other services (such as sewage, waste management, water supply, etc.). It is true that the initiative they have put forward seems to have some bearing on what is reflected at least in the expository part of the Catalan law on financing public transport, but we cannot forget that this law does have both urban and inter-urban scope. On the other hand, in our autonomy class, the jurisdiction of transport systems is much more extensive and complex, as regards planning, management, maintenance, or finance. So we at least think it's absolutely necessary for the organization co-ordination and association of the organizations and, of course, that all the organizations, starting from the councils, from the shops, from the shops, and from the fact that they're mad. And as we said at first, I think it's very important to consider that we now have an instrument, that guide plan, that guide plan I've just mentioned, in order to achieve a permanent and integrated transport model, which serves as a tool for the development of the Basque society and economy, and for the social collapse. We believe that 2030 Guide Plane has combined politics in the Eukadian transport, lined up with the European frame and the rest of the Euskozoa plans. We believe that this plan includes among its objectives a coherent financing framework and price policies based on the premise of 'polluter pays', encouraging the use of the most appropriate modes of transport in economic, social and environmental terms, enabling the development of an integrated transport system, which is what we called for in our amendment to the totality that we put forward in its day. In recent years, aware of the importance of having an integrated transport system that fosters intermodality, significant progress has been made in tariff integration as well as interoperability between cards and systems that exist in different territories, such as Bat, Barik and Mugi. So, for all this which we have put forward, and referring back to the beginning of my speech, we are going to vote against its approach and we are going to support our amendment, in which we believe that it is appropriate to continue to develop the current plan to articulate in the future sustainable mobility law the financing model and transport viability plans from the point of view of their long-term sustainability, taking into account all those aspects that affect it, both economic and social or environmental. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing to the district that has no corrections, representing the Basque Potulag, Mrs. López de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u55	Good morning. I am using this shift to set the position of the People's Group before the initiative presented to us by Elkarrekin Podemos, which calls for a bill to finance the municipal public transport system, and tells us that this law should include mobility as a subjective right and measures to establish tariffs in line with the situation of people, especially the most vulnerable. And it also tells us that this law must establish a division of economic contributions to municipalities according to criteria of social and environmental profitability of urban transport service. Mr Becerra, we share with you that in many municipalities there are economic problems to deal with the services they are obliged to provide, services to meet the needs of their neighbours, but what we do not share is that the solution is a financing law to meet each service. Or at least you pose this service. Why? Because we have enough legislative tools right now for some aspects of what you are asking us, and we believe that they are tools that are not actually being developed. Because I believe that at this stage of the legislature we all know, those of us who were in the previous legislature and those who have joined us, that this House approved Law 2/2016, of local institutions of Euskadi. By the way, none of the three speakers have referred to this law, and I am surprised. And I am particularly surprised by the groups that support the Government, because this law in Title IX speaks of the financing of local entities, the principles of the performance of Basque local finances, the regime of new competences and new municipal services, and how they are financed, and how they should be financed. It is clear from the explanatory statement: the law seeks a competitive classification which, in addition to providing legal certainty, is accompanied by a strengthening of the institutional role of the municipality and adequate funding to ensure the financial sustainability of local entities, so as to ensure adequate provision of services to citizens. And it also says that the presence of the Basque municipalities in the organs and decision-making processes that directly affect them is necessary, in order to stop being administrations that are subject to a degree of guardianship not always respectful of the relevant functions that correspond to them and not always compatible with a genuine respect for the local autonomy that the municipalities must have guaranteed. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe that the development of this law, which, by the way, is already failing, which said the law itself would have to have an elaborate study in one year, and a study has not yet been presented (I will not go into this anymore, because my colleague will raise it tomorrow), but we have to make it very clear, on the other hand, the competences of each administration. The Basque Government, the overall planning of Basque mobility and coordination with the rest of the institutions: it will draw up, in that supposed law which it says it will bring, the mobility plan of the Basque Country. But then we have the outlaws: to develop that part of the mobility plan that affects the interurban area of their respective territories. We can think of the territories of the Basque Country, and, for example, we can look at the territory of Álava, which is very important the long-distance transport plan. Because the municipalities, as you know, are very small in size, they certainly do not have urban plans for their cores, and therefore it is the parliament that draws up these mobility plans for the territory. Therefore, it is also very important that these municipalities have attention and that the parliaments are giving it to them. It will also be necessary to see how this is done and how it is financed. And then the municipalities are competent in planning the urban mobility policy. Therefore, these aspects we hope will be developed in that law of sustainable mobility announced for this legislature, but there is already a draft of the legislature of Mr López. I mean, there is the Socialist Group's intention to make the law, but we are in 2017 and the drafting of this draft has not yet begun. Therefore, we will see when it arrives, and we will see what this bill brings. A bill from the People's Group should include measures to ensure that the transport system of the Basque Autonomous Community is accessible to all citizens, regardless of whether or not they have personal limitations to travel; a law to ensure that people with mobility, disability, guidance difficulties, and older persons are offered new and better options to move as an essential element in their quality of life. We are committed to enhancing the use of public transport, which is accessible to all; as I said, equal opportunities for all citizens. Mr Becerra in point 2 speaks about the subjective right to mobility; we like to talk more about universal accessibility, to ensure accessibility and that it is for all citizens. Let it be affordable for all, with rates proportionate to social reality. It must be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. Let it be of quality. To analyse the impacts of mobility-cost of opportunity or impact (this is very important). And let us also analyse economic viability in the new transport infrastructures. The possibilities that the new bill can give us will be very important, but, well, it's an unknown, we don't know. This is what we'd like it to be. Indeed, as has been said, the groups supporting the Government have tabled an amendment, an amendment that they love, especially the Basque Nationalist group, to "continue developing". Look, they've made a plan that we'll see when it starts to develop, but come on, a plan that's transportation. But here we are talking about funding fundamentally. Basically we talk about financing, and then universal accessibility of all citizens to transport. And you don't make any mention of financing. Do you really have any interest in developing the Local Institutions Act? Do you have any interest? Not a single mention, neither in the text nor in its interventions. Listen, one of the fundamental aspects of this law is the financing of municipalities, which says so, has a specific chapter, and the law has a very important part and it is something that the municipalities were waiting for. No reference, neither in his speech nor in the amendment. We are not going to vote in favour of this amendment. No, because we don't see... it gives them laziness, that is, they have written it lazily, with laziness. In other words, this does not want to give a solution to the financing of the municipalities, it does not talk about how to finance the benefits provided by the municipalities. We are not voting for this, ladies and gentlemen, for real. Mr Becerra told us about the cost of municipal transport in Vitoria, 50 million, but that did not mean that transport did not meet the needs of citizens and those most vulnerable people. Because I have made a comparison (taking the month of May, which could have taken another but I have taken the month of May, which seems quite neutral in terms of mobility) 2009-2017, three municipal governments (at that time it was the socialist government, then Popular government, and then Nationalist government). Well, the monthly bonuses, the monthly bonuses, in May 2009 were 164,303; today, 2017, May 2017, is 297,000. I mean it costs a lot of transportation to the City Hall of Vitoria, but it has not stopped meeting the needs of those in the most vulnerable situation. Therefore, it is not always related to something that you have said, that the cost, the high cost, can leave people in vulnerable situations unattended. And in this case we have taken the city council to which transport costs the most. The monthly bonuses, the bonuses, the monthly frees have also risen... I have the statistics here, and we can say that, although transport has a very high cost to this town hall, the most vulnerable people are not being neglected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote in favour of your initiative, nor in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u57	I left where I left off. As to the question of public transportation, I think the several disputes have been mixed up; they are mixed up in the finance of those who are to be users, those around their economic conditions. I don't think it's proper to confuse all these discussions, and I'll start a little from the first point. The public transportation, as it is a public service, is, as it ought to be all public services, and I believe that it is one of the moderation of the degree of well-being which an institution may possess: How much he invests in public services and invests in public transports. This has been the mark of EH Collect, for instance, of all the institutions that have been governed, both in the townships and in the Foru Aldudian. I think that marks a degree of well-being. The greater the deficit, the greater the rank of service, and the more simple an example; When we collected in the Imperial Forum, when we collected in the Government, we raised nearly 10 million dollars, yes, since we had been an 18 million dollars of deficits, we had been serving as a common exportation of 30 million euros, which was an element of pride for us, and I still surrender it as an element of pride. Because that big defense means more miles, more miles and more users, better public service... a better public service in the towns, but also in the service of the people. And, in fact, I don't know the numbers now, but we've increased the services for miles and a lot. With the change of government, we've seen them reduce their services since 2015... in respect of the rubbacky policy of Marisol Gargic, at the present time of the Gipuian Forum Aldunian Foredi, which of the public transport is the rubinous policy of the Marisol Gang.... and there we see it: their services are diminished; the villagers complain, and they have taken away miles and miles. For, of course, to finance the subway and the subway infrastructure, and again to make the sub-structures. For the public transportation is interpreted not as public service but as economic possibilities, and the differences between the planetations and the planning of the fairest of some people on the left. So, as to this principle, that is, the public transportation is defensive? Yes, and it must be because the public transportation means that the community will pay less for this basic service. That is to say, to reduce this deficit, as you have mentioned, may be diminished, or the service may be diminished, which is the planning of PSE in the Gipulia, and where he does so in several places, or increase the price of the conveyance. Luckily, in a country like the gym, and with the consent of the movement, it was limited, so that some people don't seem so easy to increase the cost of this public service, because it's not easy to raise 5 cents on a bus trip. We all know that we spend 5 cents easily in a glass of wine, but if 5 cents are raised on a public service, it's extremely angry. Since, therefore, this difference cannot be fulfilled, though it be will and temptation, and in many places attempts, we attribute to the other. Now, I don't think it's a problem of financing so much, but I think it's a global problem, i.e. what kind of transportation we're going to provide as a nation, in this case EAE, and how we'd tie it up with the rest of the Basque Country. I think these are the central discussions, not just the finances. It is of transport that is one of the greatest exponential examples of the absurd architecture we have in this country. We have a service like Renfe, which the state gives, and we have common bus services, that are diputations, and we have villages, which in some cases produce local transport, and in the Eukot's services also move the train by the Eukot's services. This, from a logistic perspective of the public transport, brings us huge problems. Why? The agreements between different institutions in order to take any step are necessary, and these are complicated when they are parties of different colours, but even when they are of the same colour. We see, in many cases, that though there are governments of the same color, there are great difficulties in financing them. One of these chief reasons is that I'm going to the funding business. how this defence is made, how it is made, how it is made to improve or make them perfect, that they may not be consistent or competitive amongst themselves, but may be supplementary; A citizen, the Administration that governs a public transport, may have a chance of moving on a train, making a ferry, taking a bus-land, and then taking a transport, and then returning from Renf, or a service of the State, without knowing what it is that governs the Administration. I think there's a real challenge for public transportation. What's going on? You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, you know, like, like a really, like, really, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, a really, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, a really, He's used to picking up once or twice a year because he has to do it with protocol and has no active attitude for that. Then it seems to me that your proposition is interesting, because there are people who are most injured, let us say. For instance, Donosto has the budget, or Bilbo has the budget. And then, you know, RedMunch makes favourite policies about the capitals. The only thing he sees is he's involved in the subway settlement, he's also involved in the adjustment of the Donostian subway... that is, undergrowth and when it's convenient, but there's not a frame of law that says how he's going to help the villages, and how he's going to get rid of the funk and how it's going to be done. It is true that they are made by the formulary of the peoples, but they give tribute to the people, and they do not give them the proper means of financing. Hey... La Diveción no. The responsibility of the litigations is a popular transportation service, a local transportation service isn't what they were talking about, and if you don't mind looking at the legal institutional architecture here... What sort of fruit does not divide the difference between the division and the division; the division collects money; the forthoment is determined by law, and these distributions are stimulant. It is true that the municipal law has given a sudden impulse to the business of the finance; but now such considerations are still unsolved, and I think it's important to give and explain to such persons, in a way, especially to those who have fewer people, smaller sizes, and smaller budgets, who have that need. Whether there should be a subjective rights... or whether we must make a specific law, or wait for the law of support.... I don't know, I have no idea that this amendment made by EAJ and PSE is the paradelante, and we'll discuss it one day, but there's no connection, no plan, no proposition, no discussion. There's no discussion about the rest of the party. That is to say, we see, and I suspect that the law of this support of motion will express generality, and not things connected with concrete and finance. Therefore we shall not vote against him; but, well, we shall abstain until we see what he is. But I've got a feeling he won't fight that challenge. We must therefore be connected with the attention of the people with the relief of the municipal charges, but those which are referred to as bonds and all these things, namely, that second element, which has less power, well, to pay less service to the public transport.... experience exists and is being made through a treaty. It is true, perhaps, that this should be admitted by law, and in this sense I find it interesting to me, because otherwise, there are settlements between different institutions, and these agreements depend upon the political moment. I remember again when we had a phone argument with you and with different villages, the main concern was: being social bonds, that is to say, agreed with the principle of payment of those who are less numerous, who took upon himself that defence, and who was there at that time the problem, and covering it between the decisions and all the deficits, I believe that it was agreed. I mean, the big guy's got to help a smaller one, but it's just about the time, and I think it's kind of an institutionalization and a legal fiction that's interesting. And for the moment, I leave it here for the second shift.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing on the answers, one another Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u59	Well, I agree with Mrs. Ugarte's reflection. What I don't understand is that it's a consequence that abstition or a law is not necessary, and I'll explain my position. Mr Andueza said that there are many municipalities without their own transport. Of course, if you are the mayor of a small municipality and you want to consider giving the neighborhood an answer, a solution to the transport to the neighborhoods, the first thing you have to look for is money, and then you have to go to where the congress is going to see if it finances you or not, and how that is empowering it to sign an agreement, so you will be left at the dawn of whether the congress is signing the agreement or not. Hence the need for a law. Hence the need for a law, because the law is objective, and the law meets objective criteria. Now, whether it has to be a specific law or the sustainable mobility law, well, that's questionable. I was willing to discuss it with the Government, and the Government did not want to discuss it. The government did not want to discuss it. Because Mr Tellería said earlier that the opposition groups until there is powerpoint do not make proposals. Well, here we go before the powerpoint comes – because when you do the powerpoint there's no way to fix the law anymore – we go before the powerpoint, and you say we're late and bad too. Mrs López de Ocariz said that we have tools, and she mentioned the Local Institutions Act. The Local Institutions Act will depend on how municipal funding is done in general. In Europe, public transport, in order to avoid such waves and give them stability, in all the countries of the European Union they have a specific financing law with objective criteria. France, Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Catalonia also... The problem we have here in Euskadi is that of competition distribution, and Mrs Ugarte has also said so. The problem is that the institutions here are going to cake, to unfair competition, I'd say, to see who steals travelers from each other. Because right now the buses of Euskotren have a public financing that doubles that of the buses of Vitoria and Bilbao and quadruples that of the buses of Donostia, with which the buses of Euskotren right now can afford to have cheaper rates even, until there is a tariff unification, and take the travelers. And so can the Vitoria tram. The Vitoria tram has triple funding: government, parliament and town hall. The Vitoria tram took the most profitable line of Tuvisa, and turned it into a tram. And we're in favor of the tram, but what's going on? That Tuvisa stays with the most deficient lines. But Tuvisa doesn't have a contribution from the government, she doesn't have a contribution from the government today. It will depend on the agreement. Because the Donostia bus does have an agreement with the congress, which gives you 600,000 euros for the travelers who take you. And that's the way it is today. That's the way it is today. Moreover, the City Council of Eibar, which has a municipal public transport costing 200,000 euros, with whom has it hired? With Euskotren! Therefore, municipal funds end up financing Euskotren. And we still have a problem. Don't let it work out here? Of course not, but I was right now proposing solutions or possible objective solutions to guarantee the right of citizens to exercise their mobility freely. Because Mr Andueza has said that transport is an element of social cohesion. Sure, it will be if the rates are right! I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz that they do not necessarily have to be harmed by social bonuses and access to citizenship, but when municipalities have difficulty in financing themselves, in financing public transport, if people are not harmed, they end up harming the service. Because if the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz has to spend more and more on social bonds, then it can't even replace buses as often as it would if it had enough money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u61	Mr. Becerra, it's not just about money. It's a matter of service. And there are many times when the parliament, without the need to finance any municipality, is giving a service. Then, when a mobility problem is detected, it is not necessary for the parliament to finance a municipality for that municipality to give the service. It can be the parliament itself directly that gives it! And I know that there are a lot of cases in the three parliaments where that flank is being covered. That's why in my first speech I talked to him about the efficiency of the service, right? You were talking about rates, too. Well, then I will answer, but logically we cannot be accused of not increasing tariffs, when, for example, in Gipuzkoa tariffs are being applied, specifically to certain groups such as young people or pensioners, with a discount of up to 92 and 95 %. Therefore, I believe that in that sense it is doing quite a bit. There has been talk of Catalonia's financing system. Well, it looks like Catalonia wraps everything around it. Nor would I take it as an example, eh!, because the Catalonian transport financing system and the Catalonian bond system can often be quite tricky, to the extent that there are a lot of bonds. I know people who to take advantage of different rates carry up to six, seven and a dozen cards on the billboard. You have to fill it, you have a quota, fixed, and if you don't spend it, the money... poltsikora, Gobernuaren poltsikora. Eye, that there are systems that may seem to be the panacea, but then at the time of truth if you analyze them are not so much. And, look, Mrs. López de Ocariz said that when she arrives... Well, look, according to the regulatory schedule, in the third quarter of 2018. Well, let's wait. Let's wait, let's wait. Mrs Ugarte, look, I, that I am one of those who seek to give God what is God's and Caesar what is Caesar's, what he wants me to say, I have to value the Mugi card. What do you mean, no! I told you many times when you were an outlaw, and I think it was a great achievement, eh!, and I also think it was an example of inter-institutional collaboration between your government and the Basque government, then in the hands of the Socialist Party, and I think it was a breakthrough. Eye! And I think that the Mugi card in many respects can be taken as an example between Members, and not just between Members, because I think that as far as management is concerned, as far as practicality is concerned, I think it meant one before and one after, and in fact I think it served for other Members to set it in motion. And I agree with you that the expenditure that can be generated by us does not consider it to be an expenditure, but an investment. And you said that when you were in the government you increased – let's call it – that investment in I don't know how many millions of euros. Man, money is not everything either, and often you can give a much more efficient service without spending so much money. Man, you can tell me you spent a lot of millions. Normal! There were bus lines that were three hundred kilometers a week to move a dozen travelers! Of course, that deficit is also generated! Perhaps there would have been much simpler, much more effective, and probably more economical, instruments to reach those small towns, which had a deficit in public transport, which they demanded and which they could be given, but in the end. I'm not much of a church, but doctors have the Holy Church. Each with its own management does so as it sees fit. For me, finally, there were some bus lines that could have been solved otherwise, through another transport model. And in fact there were part of public competitions to award lines that were appealed. So, so exemplary, Mrs Ugarte, they didn't go out either. And he brought us the subject of the subway. Well, look, I, what do you want me to tell you! Probably with that deficit that you generated just as much to build or to advance quite a bit in the subway works, but good. The subway? I'm telling you, I think it's a sustainable, efficient, faster, more efficient transport that gives a service, in this case the Donostialdea metro, like the Bilbao metro, to a very high percentage of the population and that is also much more sustainable. What do you want me to say? For me, it's an investment that's worth a lot. In short, I hope and hope that this preliminary draft law will satisfy its demands, and if not, then, logically, the Government will be open, and the groups that support it will be open, to analyse those proposals and those amendments that they present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Aziza. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, I think this discussion we're living here, or what we're seeing, is either a mirror or a very significant thing about how the planets are often made, or how the enterprises themselves are brought into this Chamber. And, after all, in the discussion we are seeing today, where many things are mingled, several notions, several different ideas, which at first give no reference to the essence of action, I think it is very significant. We have attempted to explain what it is that we have proposed, according to what we have understood from what the initiative required. 2030 guides continue to develop, and, as is foreseen, to bring the law into the legislature, let us discuss the permanentness of the means of conveying or regulating the means of transport, as well as of financing, but transport from a general point of view. We think that bill you put up with... At least we didn't get any explanation, we didn't have any contact or contact, so we could know what the initiative asked for. And as has been shown here, neither of the representatives of the other groups have had that opportunity. There hasn't really been a chance. We didn't really know the quintessence, the quintessence of this initiative. As we have described, we don't think it's the right thing to do to call you a bill or to leave it on the roof of fun. we do not think it proper for several reasons. Baina iruditzen zaiguna jada sekulako ironia edo sarkasmoa, ez dakit nola deitu, da exactea powerpoint batan ezkutazzen garela. Allegia, ez... What I understand is... You blamed Mr. Tellería for one thing, saying that you had brought the powerpoint here. You just can't understand! Powerpoint would be the legal text itself, right?, the legal proposal itself, what they propose. It is not a GNP in which they say that the government sends Parliament a text, a project in which this, this, this and this is done. That's not a powerpoint. That is a proposal, an initiative, but it is not precisely what Mr Telleria was referring to. And, well, it seems to me that Mrs López de Ocariz tells us that it is because of laziness that we have tabled this amendment. You who have not even tabled an amendment! You who know everything, or who do not give you laziness, do not submit an amendment. How can you eat that? It just doesn't make any sense! It doesn't make any sense! And all that you have put forward here, all those reasons you have given here, could have been reflected in an amendment without any inconvenience. So I think it would be best for us to work for another time when we present the enterprises, if at least we want to build something or present it at the beginning of a constructive position. And just, well, what we said before, we vote for ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Basque Popular, Mrs. lópez de ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u65	Well, for the record, Mr. Becerra, our idea is that we have enough tools for today, as long as we don't prove otherwise. We have the Local Institutions Act, which talks about financing and how to finance the services of the municipalities, gives the municipalities the opportunity to be in certain organs, where we actually talk about how to finance the institutions, and we believe that they are important decision-making forums, where the day that it starts to walk we will see if it is resolved. Because here we trust everything in the future. Yes, Mr Orbegozo, I will not do the duties of the government. Hey, don't even ask me to bring you what you have to do. No, what are you going to do? To the future! Today it does not have, the Government has not tabled an amendment with some idea to apply today. No, they didn't! A law of sustainable mobility, for when? Is there a warrant for the commencement of the law? No! No! For when? Let us see, Mr Orbegozo, tell Mr Becerra to bring him the drafted bill; to me, to bring him also what you have to do. No way! That you are very ill-advised that we should make all the amendments so that you can then put them on and make them your own! No! No! That's it! But what do you want, living off other people's rents? But you're asking me, Mr. Orbegozo! Hey, work. Work, that's what they're there for. And so they also push their slow-moving government that we are in Zen politics again (in the previous legislature we were like this, and we are still the same). That I won't do their homework anymore! That you want us to bring you amendments, and then you make your own, your own, for you, and then "the government has agreed" and "the government groups have agreed." No, it's worth it!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u67	It is clear that with that natural grace of Łódź de Ocarariz it is impossible to reconcile. That's clear. [[Barres]] Just a little tip, a little tip... I don't like to make pedagogia, but the Eukot's services, the bus services, they're public emacidas, right? They're concessions. So they work as a concession, not just for broadcasting the service directly, okay? I mean, the Eukoten services are given in terms that decides the riots, right? So, it's not about Hadad I don't know how to say it. It is not because they are the conditions and the public corporations they put in, but it is the company that competes with other companies in the same condition, and these are the conditions which every aldudi imposes, and thus the service is given, not as you have mentioned. And that's the $60,000 that you've been talking about, from a contract with the Donostian City, because Donostian City doesn't give a few local services, because it's so convenient for the people, and that instead of depriving them of this service, it's more convenient for the people to come to an economic consideration, and, well, it's a theme that's been brought up in the course of time and kept up. But I think... What you have not understood me well is this: I have not mentioned that the law is not necessary at any time; it is necessary that the law should be a law. I don't know if we need a specific law... I am not sure of it, for here it is always that she has her opinions, and every one of them, but I must confess that sometimes I have not clear opinions, and that if I have not made them clear, I would rather go to absces. And it is not because I am not clear whether we ought to have a law of finance for finance, or a law of movement about which we are in need, that gives me more fear than yours; yours appears to me more accurate. But both of them frighten me, and they frighten me because we don't have to close the melon we need. And the melon is how we make this cultural map we now have to change and give a logic for the transportation service because it doesn't have it now. And this implies that political agreements are acquired, and are even more variable, in comparison with the stability of the law. So I think a law is necessary, but perhaps it hasn't been mentioned by you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u68	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u69	...as limited as your law. Because today, there's a lot of things that don't work out of law, and I think it's interesting. For example, I think the example of the gym is very significant, most social Bonu, most elderly... there are several and several opinions which have been obtained by political agreements, and which I believe to be permanent. So, what do we want to fund, we want to fund the rates of people with low economic powers? Do we want to fund the town halls? What do we want to fund? And I repeat, we have to invest more in public transports, more, I think, today, we're not getting enough investatives to reach suitable standards, and we're also seeing the opposite steps. So let's design the motion map we need, what legal changes we need to make, even though we touch the competitions of institutions, and what competition we are prepared to touch and to make a real effect on it and make a law, which is really complete, complete, and so forth. And we hope that, since your proposal will not be made, when the government brings in the law of support for motion, that this law will be complicited, agreed, and in some measure give way to the disaster that really exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 39; white, 0; abstain, 24.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u71	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the opposites 10; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u72	So the full correction is accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Phum up the propose as a parlamentary team, about the composition of the Cluster for Eukadian Engineering, Science, and the University of Technology. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Troubleon, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u73	Mrs. President, thank you. Partners. Today, it's the International Day of Teachers, and at this point, I want to remind everyone of the staff of education. This year's motto is, "Satisfaction teaches teachers power." And to teach in freedom, to promote autonomy, we also proclaim it to our teachers, and with worthy conditions of labour we look upon it as an indispensable end. Have a good day for all the teachers. This year, in the 20th of July, Cluster was born for Eukadian Engineering, Science, and University of Technology. His starting point was the 2022 Euscal Strategy between University and Company. We welcome the enterprise from the union of the Basque Country, because it has positive sides, and it seems important to me that the positive side of the initiative should be placed on the table from the beginning, especially because in this strategy it admits of the character of eucalisting agents and of the reformer. The university and the company have already learned the work they worked for, and that's a relief, because I have to admit that I've heard the President Urkullu several times, that our university system was far from society, from business business... and its expression may be the proper correction. While I was preparing another legal proposal, it was inevitable that I should remember my own experience, what I had seen and what I had lived. I was doing the last year of my career's engineering school, and in 25 years ago, early in a company, I practiced educational programmes, and in the afternoons, because the sixth class schools were in the afternoon, so that mornings could be polite. In this school alone and in the last years, with more than 200 companies, scholars, 500 contractes have been signed, so that the students, in addition to their first acquaintance with the company world, have been able to make a job of maserra and degree. This data belongs to one of the 10 universityes and schools that participate in the cloister, and the ten colleges and schools must be said to have acquired these practices for thousands of students, along with hundreds of companies. And I think it's good and important to know this. This new fluster, which we are speaking of today, has two principal aims: for these colleges and schools are sufficiently familiar to their knowledge and their course. And the other is, to create and transfer permanent alliances between the university and the corporations, and to share information about the Basque science, technology, and innovations. The strategy, therefore, sets out the confession of the work already performed by the university and corporations, and then sets the ends and activities to the future, proposes programs, projects, and tools, and standards for high-life, to accommodate politics with jobs and economic policies and industrial policies, and to transfer scientific and technology. Nik aitortu behar dut, dagoeneko, paragraph horretan gizzartearen aldeko politicak ere missing boot iszan ditudala, goi-mailako hezkuntzarako Europar Batasuneko agenda dokumentuarekin alderatzen doudanean. Because the Commission's communication on a renewed European Union agenda for higher education refers to the fact that higher education systems and institutions, in order to be effective in the field of education, research and innovation, must be connected to their societies. In fact, he says that higher education must play its part in tackling Europe's social and democratic challenges, and I stress this because the university system must respond to the needs of society. I also mention this agenda because the Basque university-enterprise strategy itself refers, as it could not otherwise be, to this communication, and specifically this cluster responds to one of the points of the renewed agenda for higher education, which speaks of strengthening collaboration between higher education, research and business. It's just that we need a frame to operate between our colleges and the eucalyptics and the institutions, and we agree. A Cluster has been proposed to bring the task forward, and the right thing to do. As described in the definition of Harvard Cluster, the Cluster is the geographical medium of companies, institutions, institutions, and institutions of the same area, and serves to increase the product by means of cooperation. And that is what we have brought our proposition to-day, in order to form and improve what this cluster can give by co-worker, by showing the deficiencies which he now looks upon, and by proposing a greater variety of constitutions. I'm sorry to hear Mr. Tellegio's missing, because as he said before, he doesn't know our plan... Well, today, no doubt, we put a piece of our plan on the table. We have nothing to say about the schools or schools in the Kluster, because the centers of the Esska University System are present. As for the company, we were surprised. It's well known that we'll always see Confebas by the hand of the Eukong, and it's wise to have Confebas in this club. It's a terrible thing to say that the others are not short, because, for example, in the 2022 Euskal strategy context between University and Company, there's a special mention of the exchange for the European Board and the Basque Mitch in St. Well, in that international Forum, the delegation of the Basque Company was not only the Confebask, to explain what high-level educations and corporations were, and that was the most appropriate invitation for the development of the New Products. Because in our society, the co-operatives have been in progress, innovation, and mutual importance, and have been employed for many years in the Esscal University System. And this is the first point, which we require, to accept also the delegation of the social economy. Has gaitezen kooperatibekin, adibidez, guztiok dakigu-eta horrela ikuspuntuen aniztasuna bermatuko of it, bainsa beste aipamen bat ere bai: in the Commission's communication on a renewed agenda for higher education, there is talk of bringing together different sectors of education, companies and employers in the public sector. If I remembered that twenty-five years ago I was doing educational cooperation in a company in the mornings, the truth is that what I didn't say is that that company was a public company, because public companies have also been involved in educational cooperation. And of course over the years and from the other side, since teaching, I have also tutored students and students of Engineering who have carried out these cooperations in public enterprises, in municipalities and in municipalities. The transfer of scientific and technological knowledge should not be forgotten by public officials. The strategy of the Department of Education recognizes that the present and future needs of companies and institutions must be taken into account, and from Euskal Herria Bildu we will insist on the public: let's incorporate them into the cluster! And, if I remembered that twenty-five years ago I was doing practice, some more than twenty-five years ago I will also remember that as student representative on the board of the center we voted on the change of schedule to allow us to facilitate ourselves, in the future, the realization of educational practices. And that, the representation of the student, is another one that we have missed in the composition that you pose to us. In the middle of the 21st century, the cluster of formation, which talks about building human capital in a society that wants to be advanced, does it not contemplate that the stakeholders themselves are active agents? Of course, Euskal Herria Bildu does not share that vision, and that active role is also marked from Europe. The European Higher Education Area calls for a new figure for the student as an active subject in his/her training process. In fact, the university student's statute states that universities must promote the participation of all the groups that make up it, and that students, protagonists of university activity, must assume the commitment of co-responsibility in decision-making, participating in all government bodies. Therefore, we ask that a representation of the studentship be incorporated, via the student councils. Another cause, which is also indispensable to us, is that of the unions. The university company strategy is lined up with the policy of the Eplenuse, so we agree. If we're talking about jobs, jobs, relationships, even decent jobs. The work is a right, and we acknowledge it to the working-collected defences of that right. "And we also [are] exceedingly valuable agents, and we also invite you to add them. And now I want to ask you a question: in the first pictures of the cluster, what is it that called attention? The number of men in that picture, to me at least. And I know very well what the real proportion is. For this reason there is an agent that seems to us important to us, an agent who will stand for equality. It's clear that in engineering, science and technology world, women are sub-relationed. Even in the agenda of the European Union, the question is this: The development of active policies on the lower levels is indispensable in mathematics and science to enable girls to become capable of them. It is essential to do this job, then to make changes in the upper levels. But even after school, it won't be easy. This summer it has been very well heard of the difficulties which have been made to appear in Sillicon Valley, and to diminish the women's sufferings. There is a great deal of work before us, which we consider to be important, and we demand that even the legislators of equality should be present. I mean, in the end of the year, to encourage this college company strategy to ask you to sing to me. You have to encourage your partnership. Between the Esquila university systems and corporations and the public sector and the volunteers as they are recorded in the European Union's diary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u75	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. Partners. From Elkarrekin We have the maximum that diversity enriches. Therefore, we believe it is important to ensure that the various councils, organs, teams or, as in this case, the composition of a cluster of university education, are made up of plural teams of people and agents who, in some way, represent the different visions of the real protagonists of the actions that are put in place and affect them directly or indirectly. For this reason, it makes no sense not to have the participation of the social partners who are beneficiaries of the different actions that are implemented in this case within the I Basque Strategy University-Company 2020. In the justification of the initiative presented by EH Bildu, we saw how the composition presented by the adviser of the Department of Education for the Cluster of the University Training in Engineering, Science and Technology of Euskadi, in fact, lacked the presence of the true and true protagonists of the strengthening of the Basque university system. The composition presented included the presence of the Department of Education of the Basque Government, the Euskampus secretariat, two agents, industry pilot group 4.0, AIC and Confebask, and the various training centres. The initiative of EH Bildu proposed to include in this composition, on the one hand, representatives of the social economy and trade unions, and, on the other, agents representing students. Our proposal, based on the idea of forming plural working teams with the participation of the true and true protagonists, seemed appropriate to us, although we find that once again the presence of any agent or body that ensures that the principle of equality of women and men and the incorporation of the gender perspective are present was not included in the composition of this body. For this reason, one of the proposals we made in the amendments to the whole that we tabled was that of integrating the Directorate for Equality of the UPV-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitate into the composition of this cluster, with the aim of ensuring the general principles of equal opportunities and non-discrimination that must govern and guide all actions of the Basque institutions; incorporating the gender perspective in all actions of the cluster to contribute to the elimination of inequalities and to promote equality between men and women; contributing to the highly masculinized areas of Euskadi's engineering, science and technology being increasingly equal sectors; and also taking advantage of the potential of the entire population, because this society has the generation of more and better qualified women in history. It is also of the utmost importance to ensure that the cluster itself is a joint body. As stated in the Equality Act, "The Basque public authorities must take the necessary measures for balance in the various areas of decision-making". Elkarrekin We can support measures that allude to the need to put in place rules that correct gender inequality, both in the choice of university degrees and in research, because women are minority in technological areas. The technological gap is clear in enrolment data. According to the latest report prepared by Emakunde, Institute for Women, Engineering and Architecture, it is still an area with a clear predominance of students (71.8%). In general, technical teachings, mainly engineering, are maintained as areas with a clear male predominance. In short, the less advanced a country is in gender equality, the deeper the difference in favour of men in technical careers. The renewed agenda of the European Union for higher education is also marked as a challenge, and therefore as a reality, gender segregation by field of study, and this is reflected in the inclusion of women in the labour market. We have reached a compromise amendment agreement with EH Bildu that includes the inclusion of a gender perspective in the cluster, and it is not understood, ladies and gentlemen, that we advocate policies for equality between women and men and that these policies are neither effective nor implemented nor raised in such initiatives. And finally, today, World Teacher's Day, Elkarrekin We can thank the entire faculty, as a true agent of change, who works day by day for a quality and inclusive Basque school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u77	Yes, thank you, President. I first want to join Mrs Larion's greeting and Mrs Macazaga's greeting to the teacher. Today seems to be a significant day for this. Well, today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, concerning the constitution of the Euskadi University Training Cluster in Engineering, Science and Technology, recently constituted, in July of this year, by the Basque Government. With the creation of this University Training Cluster in Engineering, Science and Technology, chaired by the Education Adviser, this initiative by the Basque Government aims to improve university training in the three areas mentioned above, in order to meet the needs of the productive fabric. And it pursues two main objectives (and I think it's good to focus on the objectives the cluster has). On the one hand, forge close and stable relationships between universities, research agents and companies, which ensure collaboration between them and thus generate and transfer knowledge. On the other hand, develop both graduate and postgraduate training offers to provide answers and train professionals who know how to handle themselves in the productive market and who respond to the needs of the market. In other words, students have a close relationship with the company, so that the integration of graduates into work is encouraged. This alliance involves schools and faculties of engineering, science and technology based in Euskadi, in addition to Tecnun, which is the engineering school of the University of Navarra in San Sebastián, the Basque business confederation Confebask, and the pilot group for industry 4.0. The aim of this training is also to enhance coordination between universities in Euskadi, because it is considered that there is a need for the training of future engineers and scientists, and to this end innovative methods are introduced in the curricula, and to promote internationalisation. For all this it is necessary to know in depth the needs that the productive fabric demands and to improve and promote collaboration between universities, in order to be able to advance towards a university education that has a close relationship with both Basque companies and institutions. It seems to my group that the participation that this cluster has included in its constitution is the one necessary for the necessary progress to be made in improving coordination between the universities themselves and in the relationship between them and the Basque companies. This does not mean that we are not in favour of the participation of the other actors, as other groups have included in their amendments, such as the trade unions or the Directorate for Equality, but it is true that these actors also currently have their own representative bodies in each of the sectors, especially in the university, where they make their normal lives. We believe that the participation with which this cluster has been formed is necessary and appropriate for the achievement of the established objectives, because it includes universities of these modalities, both of engineering and of science and technology, and sometimes it is better not to sin in excess, when, on the other hand, there are channels of participation already established in their own organs, where both social agents and representatives of the students can participate in the decision-making. We find interesting the initiative that the cluster promoted by the University-Company Strategy takes, the business classes, laboratory classes within the university itself or school, which are financed by the companies themselves to promote their actions and activities in R+D+i. We believe that they are an effective instrument of collaboration between companies and universities, which on the one hand encourages the training of pupils and brings them closer to the productive fabric, and on the other hand encourages research, and this makes it, of course, a benchmark in education and training. That is why we advocate, in the amendment tabled with the PNV... It collects the University-Business 2022 strategy, which includes dual training to bring these students closer to business practices, and that in a quick and simple way these students are directly related to the needs of businesses and the productive fabric; in addition to contributing, we believe, in a fundamental way, to the objectives of the European Union's strategic framework for cooperation in education and training, the Commission's growth and employment strategy. I do not doubt the good intention with which Mrs Larion and Mrs Macazaga have submitted their contributions, but I sincerely believe that they sin from voluntarism and from an excess of good intention, for something that, as it is made up, becomes something perfectly effective for the objectives being pursued.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. This subject, which comes to the discussion this morning, is another proposition of the Eukadian Engineering, science, and Cluster, presented in July. In this we speak of the constitution of the Cluster; but before we proceed, I should like to explain, first, what we mean by the Cluster. We can discover several definitions, and, according to context, they vary in small details; but, in fact, they all go along the same course. The concept of a cluster is a new way of seeing and understanding national, regional and urban economies, and suggests new functions for businesses, public authorities and other institutions that are striving to improve competitiveness. This is a key benefit for the public authorities, as it allows them to have better and better knowledge of macroeconomic policies than they should adopt in order to promote competitiveness. All this captures it better explained than what I could do by Professor Michael E. Porter, professor of Harvard Business School, in his book "Being competitive", where he defines the cluster as a geographically dense group of companies and related institutions, belonging to a specific field, united by common and complementary traits. In this context, and as already announced by those who have preceded me in the word, on 20 July it was announced that in Lakua the creation of the new Cluster of the university education in Engineering, Science and Technology of Euskadi took place. This cluster was the first large grouping of universities in Euskadi, and in this sense it pursued two main objectives with which our group fully agrees and I too would like to recall. On the one hand, the objective of forging stable partnerships between universities and research agents with companies, ensuring collaboration and feedback between them, to generate and transfer knowledge, as well as to share information on Euskadi's science, technology and innovation policies. On the other hand, develop graduate and postgraduate training and lifelong learning offers to provide effective responses and train professionals with high versatility and employability. As for its composition, the schools and faculties of engineering, science and technology of Euskadi, the Confebask Basque business confederation and the pilot group for industry 4.0, within the framework of the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, participate in the cluster. Thanks to this broad composition, the aim is to enhance the coordination between the university centres in Euskadi in order to respond to the training and research needs that require strategies that exceed the size of a single university centre, as well as to increase the employment integration of university students and their follow-up, in addition to promoting the internationalization and innovation of university training. In fact, this cluster has already begun to bear fruit, driven by the University-Company 2022 Strategy of the Basque Government, which, for example, provides for the launch of a business-university classroom at the Intelligent Automotive Center in Amorebieta, which will develop collaborative-training projects in the field of education and also in the field of research. A strategy (this University-Company Strategy 2022) that translates in the second of its actions the clustering of the faculties and schools of the Basque university system, to meet the objectives of the strategy of intelligent specialization RIS3 Euskadi. A strategy that is also part of the plan I mentioned earlier, the Euskadi 2020 Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. I would like to make a small parenthesis to remind you of the RIS3 Euskadi plan, the RIS3 Euskadi strategy, which is an innovation and regional development strategy driven from Europe with the aim of promoting the concentration of resources and investment in areas of industrial technological development where there are clear synergies with the region's existing and potential productive capacities. But not only that, since other actions of the 2022 University-Company Strategy establish actions to boost agreements in the field of dual university education, as well as the definition of the Basque framework of university-FP collaboration in university degrees, or collaboration between companies and universities, so that a follow-up of students is done once their university stage has been completed. Bearing in mind, therefore, all these nuances, we see that it is a cluster with plural, broad representation, and competently represented to pursue the objectives that have been imposed and that I have mentioned earlier. It should also be made clear that as far as its composition is concerned, we cannot forget that the Basque Council of Universities is the coordinating body of the Basque university system and also the Basque Government's consultation and advice on university matters. The composition and functions of the Basque Council of Universities are set out in Law 3/2004 of 25 February of the Basque University System, and thus the Council is responsible, among its functions, for promoting the collaboration of universities with other public and private institutions to implement programmes of general interest, and in particular for promoting university relations with companies. For the functions entrusted to the council it also has the power to create, according to the law mentioned above, specific working commissions, and in this sense we have to say that the University-Company Strategy is articulated on the basis of two levels, the strategic and the operational, and it is at the operational level where we frame the cluster 4Gune. In short, therefore, what we have come to say is that the Basque Council of Universities, which is already competently represented, is sovereign in establishing the composition of these bodies, and we believe that this is plural and representative of the sectors of interest that this cluster pursues. We must also bear in mind that trade unions and students already have their own bodies of participation and opinion in the universities themselves of the Basque university system, and also in each university individually or individually. To this should be added that the composition of the Basque Council of Universities itself envisages, for example, the participation of the Basque School Council, as well as that of other civil society actors. That is why we believe that there is no point in trying to impose this dynamic, which we have not seen in other successful clusters, and that is why we are in favour of the Department of Education continuing to drive the University-Company Strategy 2022, promoting collaboration between faculties and universities with companies and other Basque entities within this case of the 4Gune cluster. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u80	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. The next round of the rebel team, Mrs. De Bengochea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u81	We have not tabled an amendment at this point either. I hope that this is why we are not accused of being vague, as has happened before. And we have not done so not out of vagrancy, but because one is putting forward an amendment to something that he believes can improve, or that can make a better sense, and this proposal was difficult for us to make sense of. And I'm gonna say why. I believe that the word cluster is interpreted differently in different places. As we interpret it, and I think it is the most widespread way of being interpreted, it is like a forum for debate, but as a forum for debate that has a cohesion of complicity to get to the same point. Then, when we were proposed the inclusion of so many organs and institutions, etc., etc., it seemed to us that it did not correspond to a cluster, that it would make it more ineffective. Especially when for such a forum its fundamental mission is to propose; it does not have a full decision-making capacity. The total decision-making capacity is in its various components, which will eventually have to be ratified, and where those institutions that were asked to be in the cluster will be present. That is why we have not made an amendment. Because it was hard for us to even get involved with our idea of what a cluster is, and, as the objectives are defined, we did not find enough reason to be to propose all these additions. I also want to say one thing, which I believe is a danger today and which concerns us, and is to want to turn any initiative into an assembly. If we do that we will lose great effectiveness, and the people who have to lead and lead certain initiatives will become mere socio-cultural animators. As if we were, I don't know, in a hotel, that the sociocultural animator encourages everyone, I don't know what... No, no, Each stick has to endure its candle, for good and for bad, be representative, decide, and then face accountability. It seems to me that what it does, rather than enriching the decision, which is a legitimate and laudable objective, what it does is to paralyse the action. Paralyze the action. And especially in the specific case of the cluster, when we know that decisions are to be taken in the various bodies that constitute it, where the entities that this proposal proposes are represented. Yes, we find it appropriate to add Elkarrekin We can on parity. I think we share... I'm not going to say the bottom, because the bottom probably has different ways of seeing it, but the impulse. Yes, the impulse. Forced parity is very difficult, and today it is true that in science and technology careers there is much less presence of women, but believe me, that is not fixed already in the cluster. The other day we were meeting with representatives of the Basque school, and they themselves were telling us that that's something to start inculcating him in elementary school. By the time people get to ESO and have to decide which subject to take, it is too late to seek that equality that we all pursue. But, well, that is what we most agree with the consensual proposal that has been brought to us. And what are we going to do? We are going to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government. And we are going to do this not because we consider it an amendment to the whole (because it is a thing that the government often does, which is "I carry apples, I bring pears"): it is a declaration, it is not an amendment to the whole. It is a statement, a statement with which it is very difficult to disagree, and that leads us to vote in favour. But we do want to say that if we want to dignify the role that amendments, approaches and so on play in political discussion, then we really should not replace an amendment with a declaration. But, well, everyone who decides what they want. It's our position. And that is one of the reasons why neither in this point nor in the previous point, which my colleague Mrs López de Ocariz has defended, we have made an amendment. Because we would have had to go into the bottom, and it seemed to us that the bottom was wrong. To close, we want to say that the cluster is born of the Basque strategy University-Company 2022, which as an initiative seems appropriate to us, we will have to judge for its results, but we miss something (and something that you will see how the wind will turn, and it will be put back into value): we talk about university-Company, and we don't talk about any specialty in Humanities. And they'll tell me, "But there are few companies in Humanities!". No, that's not true. For example, archaeology (there are companies engaged in archaeological explorations in the Basque Country); for example, sociology; for example, psychology. I think we should take a look... I understand that what is probably going to generate more employment, which is now our fundamental concern, is the branches that you have chosen or prioritized, but I personally miss a presence, though humble, of Humanities, because there are companies that deal with things that refer to Humanities, to studies of Humanities. Because, remember, science, technology, they give us knowledge and they give us tools to move in life, but Humanities give us wisdom. Then, we ask the counselor to incorporate this type of study in later developments in the Basque University-Company strategy. And, as I say, we are going to vote in favour of the statement – which I do not amend – of the groups that support the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u83	Yes, thank you. To tell you the truth, I used to come out here and tell you what to say, when at least I heard the last one, but, well, I'll try to concentrate. Well, I think if anything has been made clear this time, yes, we can see here that there are two models, and your model, the government, the Potion Party, is an efficient pattern, where, every time the company is mentioned, Confebesk is the only model that could understand the company. And we knew, that is, it's not even an attitude we've taken by surprise, but that's a pity. In this member and in the Basque Country, there are many more companies, many more companies, many more things that do, and even deny it, to go to Confebaske alone every moment, only to leave Confebaske's hand, without doubt, that this will not have a very rich future... well, perhaps, as we have mentioned here, in the direction of the spinning doors, but not for the whole society. If we don't start by not noticing that there are many more companies, we'll be walking very short, and there are other economic models, if you don't see they exist, we'll be wrong. And if that's what you think it is, to answer the whole of the Basque Country society, still more, the future will be even blacker. And that's also what's highlighted today. If you think it's enough to replace the university company, we see everything very short-legged. Do you really think that an advanced future will be possible without any students who are engaged in education? Really? Are you really ready to talk about them without them? Is that how you anticipate it? Well, I won't say anything about taking part from the Poptular Party, because we know it very well, and I won't lose time, but I'll tell EAJ and the Socialist Party: Do you really understand that this is how it should be? Mr. Pastor said it was very interesting about the Aula-Em firm, of course we didn't say anything about it... that there are more than 20 years ago, and that there are good results, and there are business rooms, which are not only those of Confebas, but also those of the Kooperatists, who are very interesting. Shall we begin by assuming that the institutions of the social economy can also express a great deal in formation? I give you my hand to accept it, even EAJ. Open the door to the co-operatives, open the door to other companies, who are also pioneers in research and development, who have received prizes, even in European affairs. You want to go with Confebask, okay, open the door, that's what you're saying, open the door. What can I say about the unions? but, well, I think I'll leave it for another discussion, what a aggressive attitude it is. But are you really willing to deny that? Indeed, as Mr. Álvarez has said, whether this is his opinion that the plural and the delegation is sufficient? That? If you feel replaced by it, you do, but not a lot of people yet. And what we're bringing here is that we live more people in this society, and the participation we propose is that we feel replaced by them all. We don't have a problem with school and faculty. In that sense,opeau, there's nothing to say. They're all here. Missing ops, represented by the whole society... society, I mean, which in engineering, science, and development is connected with, even in the case of corporations, with it. That sounds like... Do you feel replaced with that? Sadly, it sounds like it. But it's a pity, and you know that very well, that this whole society does not stand for it. If you read the European strategy, the advanced nations of Europe have long since gone beyond it, they plan on other constitutions, even on the agenda, and you have decided to look back. Part by the Popula's hand, looking back at Madrid, looking at the state.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u84	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Together, Poedemus... he must not speak. Basque Socialists, Pastor... They don't have to talk. Eubertarians, Álvarez... ? Álvarez? Yeah? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that first we need to be clear about the objectives we set ourselves in creating the cluster, and I believe that we have mentioned several of the players in this round and I want to remind them: on the one hand, to forge stable alliances between universities and research agents with companies, and, on the other, to develop graduate and postgraduate training offers, and lifelong learning. If what we want is to create a business association to negotiate with the unions, to be the valid interlocutor with the Administration in a specific field, for that we do not have to create a cluster. The cluster has to be for companies and institutions to cooperate and make interrelationships that they cannot do individually. In addition, they can, and in my opinion should, include faculties, universities, foundations, technological and scientific parks... , as is also the case in this cluster 4Gune. And, therefore, we believe, and I reiterate, that for the objectives for which it is created it fulfils a wide and varied representation. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To conclude, Mrs. Bengoche has her word. Mrs. Bengochea... ? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Well, a few minutes, I don't think I'm gonna use all my time. First to tell the groups supporting the Government that, if in the course of the cluster work they see that it is necessary that someone else be incorporated, please have an open mind. And with regard to Mrs Larion's speech, what I am going to say is that I am not going to waste my time talking about what she has said either. No, I'm not wasting my time. She said she's not gonna waste time with us... Me too. But do you know why I'm not wasting my time? Because, Mrs. Larion, there are times when "tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack". Mrs Larion, as members of your group, has a speech of hatred towards our group, and then, as we only have the dignity, I simply will not comment on how you say, how you reproach them "Once again, by the hand of the People's Party". I assure you that we have our hand stretched out towards you, and that what we want is, with you, to help get Basque citizens to the best possible port. And those who speak of so much inclusiveness, etc., etc., is inclusiveness of those who are my friends, and those who are not my friends I exclude. Then, I denounce from here (I denounce it) the continuous expressions, which could be assimilated to expressions of hatred, which our group receives. It is not that we care, because with what we have been through, buff!, we can endure this and much more, but it seems to me that it is very sad that in the seat of discussion and debate, of meeting all the Basque citizens, the poison of hate is squeezing as it is continuously squeezing. I am telling you, it is not a complaint, because we can endure this and much more, but I assure you that our hand is stretched out with the best of intentions to achieve the best life and well-being for Basque citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u89	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the entire correction of Eucabertists and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the opposites 10; the whites, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u90	Integer correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentary Parlamentarian Group, the vaccines in public health, and the prevention of diseases, as a fundamental reference and estimate of value. Discipline and final resolution. We've got a contractor who's got the word to run out and get out of here. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. I'll be brief, because it's a no simple law proposition. Simple, because what this initiative seeks is to highlight something of great value, which is vaccines. But once again I believe that one can talk about it in a context where some are looking for certain roles of discredit or deterioration of the function of vaccines, and in some cases – perhaps in our most immediate environment it is not so serious, but in some of the next ones – the role of anti-vaccines is making a pitiful, negative way. And, of course, if we can also do preventive work here, as with vaccines, and continue to talk about vaccines as the great element of public health, of public health policies in the world, welcome. And that is our claim, indeed: a non-legislative proposal for the defence of vaccines, of the mode of vaccination, and of their permanent enhancement, and of the attacks that anti-vaccine sectors have brought in recent times and have revealed recent times. Perhaps in our immediate environment they are not as serious, as I said before, although expressions of fallacies critical of vaccines are seen lately, but every day in many even nearby countries, like France or Italy, that perception of false concepts and false adverse reactions of vaccine immunization is increased. It has even recently been said that certain vaccines cause autism. It has again been said, when a claim like that was already perfectly discredited and scientifically disqualified, that it had its fashion in some societies, mainly in the United States, at some point by some irresponsible medical scientist, who acquired a certain protagonism but then had to pay for his fallacies. In addition, different associations of pediatrics, scientific medical societies have highlighted the essential importance of immunization measures for the population, especially for children, and have denounced various offensives (i.e., scientific societies, pediatric societies) and campaigns of destabilization in relation to vaccines and their effects. They have said that thanks to vaccines millions of deaths and diseases are avoided every year, not only among children, and that their safety has already been demonstrated scientifically, and it continues to be so every time there is a step in relation to the implementation of vaccination policies of these characteristics. That is, that they themselves (pedestrians, scientific societies) are saying most, unanimously, that disseminating false information about vaccines confuses the population and fundamentally endangers children's health, also that of the adult population, of course, in relation to other types of vaccines that also have a leading role. And now we are at the forefront of a new influenza vaccination campaign; in other words, I believe it is still good to highlight this issue and warn of the risks of those who are trying to criticize it, even from the medical or professional level. We have also recently been able to see how public statements or statements have been made from some areas of opinion, and massive areas of opinion, because they are from some means of communication, which in a false way discredit vaccines by attributeing them harm or damage to health that are at all certain, and which are based on supposed research – I say again, as I said before – discredited by the international scientific community and by the World Health Organization's own prevention and health policies. That is, it is necessary to continue to highlight the measures aimed at generating immunity from various diseases, stimulating the production of antibodies, and it is necessary to continue to stimulate the research and production of new vaccines that act on diseases that do not yet have such immunization. And it is necessary for public authorities to be on this issue in their schedules, in their prevention programmes, in their public health programmes, in their vaccination programmes, and to do so always by the hand, of course, of the advisory committees, of the scientific committees, and of the scientific society. It is clear that in relation to these issues we have wanted to bring a non-legislative proposal, and we have agreed, to a compromise amendment with the groups supporting the Government, we have also tried to gather ideas that we have seen reflected in some of the amendments tabled, and, well, there it is. That's three points. The first of these, where the Basque Parliament, in accordance with the recommendation of the World Health Organization (I think it is good to recognize it, because these issues are not the case for the governments in Spain or the Basque Country, or in France, but are broad lines of public health for the whole world) and the main international health agencies, is reaffirmed in the importance of vaccination in the prevention of diseases. It is very important to recognize this. We are in the decade..., 2010-2020 is the decade of vaccinations, in addition to within the World Health Organization; that is, we are within an absolutely scientific, absolutely specialized framework of action. We also say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to take decisions on the vaccination schedule, or the management of information campaigns on vaccines (information campaigns that are essential), taking into account our social reality, prioritise and prevail health prevention criteria, taking into account the recommendations of the Basque Vaccine Advisory Council and relying on its cooperation in decision-making. Well, these are approaches that Mrs Blanco put forward in her amendment of the whole which we considered very important to collect, because the Advisory Council on Vaccines, a body we know of, which we have also paid attention to in this Parliament, because, well, it has an important task, in union with Osakidetza, in union with the Department of Health, in union with scientific societies, in union with pediatric medical societies, etc. I mean, I think it's a fundamental element. And that is why we urge the Basque Government to continue to carry out..., and not just to carry out: to continue, to strengthen in its case, in case of need (and I think it is necessary to strengthen them, and I will explain in a moment why), information campaigns on the vaccination calendar, on the main developments in this field, and on the importance and desirability of vaccination of the population. I believe it is time to strengthen information campaigns from Osakidetza primarily, from public institutions. Why? Continue to do them and strengthen them, which this initiative will then urge the Government, and the Government will discuss why. And what we can tell you is, on the one hand, that precisely because of this risk of discrediting vaccines that is spreading, in some places more than in others, but in France and Italy that is happening, in the United States let's not say (even some mother prefers to go to jail than to vaccinate her children, as we recently saw, yesterday, the day before yesterday)... That is to say, I believe that we must be alert to this situation, and that is why I believe that public campaigns cannot fail to reaffirm what is good, and that they must be strengthened. And, on the other hand, what happens in the Basque Country? That there is poor, insufficient vaccination, in relation to the flu, for example, of health professionals, who are called to be vaccinated. Look at you, we asked a question recently to the Basque Government regarding the vaccination of the health personnel of the Basque Health Service in Osakidetza: in the 2016 campaign 7,971 professionals in Osakidetza were vaccinated, which is a coverage of 30% of professionals, 30% of people who have to attend, consult, touch, be with chronically ill people, with the elderly. I mean, it's possible that there are doctors who are telling the lady or the old man that they have in front of them "It will have to be vaccinated," and they haven't. And they may also be one of the causes of a disease transmission. I believe that this is important, and that is why we also understand that in what we called for in the third point for the Basque Government to strengthen campaigns, here is also an element of further progress, because this does not change. That is, it is imperceptible between 2016 and the previous 2015 campaign: it is 30%. And that has to be fixed. That can't be. And, indeed, there is not the Health Advisor (a pity, because I have seen him before around here, but it seems that he could not be at this point), but I think we have to tell him that this issue is taken seriously, because I have spoken to the doctors who carry these issues, with specialists, and they are concerned about this situation, which certainly attracts attention. These are simply approaches that we have highlighted. And I too want to say that the amendments are interesting. That is to say, Mr Uria also proposed in his amendments – which were not all, which were additional – a number of issues that linked professional practice, professional ethics, codes of good governance, the association of professionals with pharmaceuticals... Something that I believe has some possibilities for debate and an entity for itself, that debate. It is a parallel or coinciding debate on some issues, and we are certainly not going to avoid it, but I believe that this initiative wanted to draw more attention to vaccination needs right now. We are in the foreground, practically already in this year's influenza vaccination campaign, in winter 2017. We also understand those risks that we perceive, that in our environment – we have already seen statements – in our environment may not be so serious, but of course vaccination campaigns and policies – we have to remember – are being strengthened throughout Europe. Countries such as Portugal, Germany, Italy, France, are regulating, are making regulations on areas of compulsory vaccination. We're in Spain, and basically in communities like the Basque Country is better, we're fine, but we're at that risk. And we have already seen that if we run the risk in relation to policies or anti-vaccine considerations we have a risk, because only 30% of professionals are vaccinated. I mean, on that issue I think we're talking about a very important issue. Someone was saying that " salus populi lex suprema est ", meaning that public health is the supreme law, and of course vaccines are the basic soul of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u93	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, councillors, lehendakari, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. Parliamentarian Carmelo Barrio, of the People's Party, proposes a non-law proposal on the goodness of vaccines, and proposes that the Government take a stand on the issue and strengthen its information position. Our parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos not only has no problem in publicly expressing our support for vaccines as the main method of primary prevention available to public health at this time, but does not share the philosophy of so-called vaccine groups or, as they like to be called, safe vaccine groups, which have developed in different countries of our environment, not so much in Euskadi or within the framework of the Spanish State. Indeed, there were two movements that have already been mentioned by parliamentarian Barrio: a movement that linked the diphtheria vaccine with severe neurological disorders in the United Kingdom in 1970, and a movement that linked the triple viral with autism in 1998 in the United Kingdom. More than 14 million cases of vaccinated children were studied, and no relationship between the two situations was relevant, from vaccination of triple viral and autism, but it was twelve years before The Lancet, one of the most prestigious magazines in our profession, recanted from the statement he had made, and Andrew Wakefield was actually kicked out of medical school, and was an icon of the anti-vaccine movement. Having said that, we wish to express our surprise at the proposal. It's like asking the government to go to school is good, or taking care of nature is good, or going to vote is good too... In short, they are matters of common sense. We have nothing to say to parliamentarian Carmelo Barrio. However, there are some problems underlying the proposal that we are concerned about, that we want to express and that are in the media of our country and that are of concern to parents, midwives and aitas, in our territory. The first issue I want to raise is that the vaccine industry is not the sister of charity. It is a group of multinationals in the world's most powerful financial market, currently moving a capital greater than the arms, white-trade or telecommunications industry itself. In 2002 alone, more than $20 billion was spent on prescription vaccines in the United States alone. It is a group of multinationals (Pfizer, Lilly, Astrazeneca, Novartis, Roche, Glaxo, etc.), real oligopolies in the sector, which devote 30% of their total budgets to marketing their products. This is a problem. Second, pharmaceutical companies buy politicians. In the last data I have taken from the Bush era and the Republican candidates, they received $30 billion all of them. He also received Clinton, he also received Obama. I have no data on whether he received Zapatero or Mariano Rajoy; we will look for them. They buy media, creating many times induced demands in our population, because managing people's fear is very complicated, it's pure anthropology, it's pure culture, it's communication ability. They buy from healthcare professionals (continuous payment of congresses, meals, five-star hotels, etc.). They buy researchers, they buy professors, they buy officials from international organizations. The last was a World Health Organization official, who was a member of the committee that declared the pandemic (of the last no, of the previous epidemic) of avian influenza. They buy from national officials who are directly related to decisions on the use of vaccines. This is another problem. Another problem is that only 10% of the total budget for vaccine research is spent on diseases affecting 90% of the world's poorest population, precisely those in impoverished countries, where, I recall, almost 2 million children under one year of age die, according to Médecins sans Frontières, from vaccine-preventable diseases. The NGO movement and the United Nations-affiliated movement have repeatedly denounced this scandalous situation. It is researched for products that are sold in market niches, where our middle classes can buy vaccines or we have health systems, which offer them free of charge. In Africa children die, and in Europe elderly people die: communicable diseases such as malaria, AIDS, Ebola, dengue, zika, tuberculosis, among others, are still waiting for the proper vaccine, the effective and safe vaccine to prevent the hundreds of thousands of deaths that cause these diseases every day, every year. Access prices for available vaccines are too expensive for these populations. And although agencies such as Global Vaccine or the International Alliance for Immunization, formed by WHO, Unicef, Doctors Without Borders and the International Federation of the Red Cross, make every year an effort, a great effort, hundreds of thousands of children still die from measles, or cholera, or yellow fever. The last shipment of doses released by these alliances for the Rohinya refugees (over 1 million people expelled from Burma for ethnic cleansing, who are in Bangladesh), has confirmed that 900,000 doses of cholera vaccines are coming to them on 27 September. We'll see how many people die. And the last point I want to make – and so we are going to abstain – is that we need a more ethical relationship with pharmaceutical companies. People, professionals, technicians, and politicians who make decisions about the use of vaccines, must be subject to an ethical code, as our Government has done. And prove that they have no conflicts of interest between their professional practice and the commercial interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies. Congresses are paid to professionals; some of them are involved in expert committees, also in Euskadi, year after year. The last case we know, in relation to the introduction of the vaccine against chickenpox in the vaccination calendar, or the attempt to introduce into the market the vaccine of meningococcus B, was the fulminant cessation of Francisco Salmerón García, a senior official of the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs, who was head of the Biological Products and Biotechnology Division of the Spanish Medicines Agency. He ceased his duties, where he worked from 1990 to 2015 (twenty years), for his opposition to the early vaccination of chickenpox and his strangeness for the cost-effectiveness of considering the new entry in the calendar of vaccines of the preparation Bexsero in particular, of Novartis, as a vaccine for meningitis B. The then Minister of Health, Alfonso Alonso, gave up on him, who could tell us better than I could. Because I have data that I've been sent from the ministry, but our MP Alfonso Alonso quit. Francisco Salmerón, in the last letter he wrote farewell to the current Minister of Health, Dolors Montserrat, observed the following, and with this I conclude: "... The observation of the increasing influence of the marketing units of pharmaceutical companies in decision-making in our ministry, and the difficulty of distinguishing the real role of some so-called scientific societies, which sometimes seem clearly infiltrated by marketing and transmuted into indoctrination and pressure organs at the service of pharmaceutical companies." This man is a man of great prestige in Spanish society, and one of the best trained technicians. We're going to abstain. The proposal by Mr Carmelo Barrio is an interesting one, it is a good one, we agree. How will we disagree! We do not share the philosophies of the doubts, but for those who talk about vaccines today and do not contemplate the financial potential, the marketing potential, the purchase-sales of officials and the situation that is developing, creating highly serious situations from the ethical point of view, in our community, I believe it is a partial job, to speak only of the importance of vaccines in public health policies, as the central element of primary prevention, which we certainly support and affirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u95	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. The other proposition, as expressed by Populous groups, is acceptable, and the half-directional correction which has been expressed, if the intention of these groups is always to pass over the reality of vaccines. I mean, if it stays on the first cover of onions. The substance of the equipment is to start a campaign for vaccines. Besides, Mr. Carmelo Barrio has explained his interference very well. I've been thinking recently about the EHU discussion contest that's been celebrated in this Chamber. By chance they arranged a discussion about vaccines, and probably their arguments were more profound than we are about to-day-the vaccines, not vaccines. And of course, the work of these teams here is not to establish medical criteria or argue whether the vaccines are necessary or not. Our task is to facilitate the activity of professionals working in public health systems. And to be able to perform this activity under suitable conditions of work, it is our business, as well as our duty, to seek and enable the means. But if we want to discuss vaccinations, we can do two things, in our opinion: the first is to put upon the table all the difficulties and interests that surround it. Or, second, stay in an agreement deboenism. This team prefers the first chance. And this is what he has desktopd in a small measure by correction, but we are on our way. And what today, as I said, is perfectly acceptable. But we think it would be nice to comment on a couple of things. We have to say that the coverage of vaccines in prevention is the most important tool that we have to protect health. That's clear enough. Other spokesman said so too. We can't deny that. And in the same way, we cannot deny that economic interests, the interests of productive industry, exceed health criteria. That's why, in the report introduced by EH Collector, he asks "Molly" to set up any campaign near the vaccines, or at the time of any decision, the default and superiority of health-prevention, the economic, communicative, and political interests. It is true, in the middle, that the first part of our correction is taken. But as the final part is more conflicting, it does not appear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that this Parliament today positions itself in the way it is going to do about vaccines and awareness-raising campaigns about them, but let us not lose sight of the fact that there are many other issues that should also be addressed sooner or later. Frankly, we also do not think it is so urgent and necessary to launch such a campaign. We have at the door the flu campaign, vaccination against the flu, and, if in this case the government will not act differently than it has done on other occasions, then we will see big posters on the street and in health centers, advertisements in the media... We believe that citizenship is perfectly informed. Another thing, another issue is that there are people who do not want to be vaccinated on their own, but that, as we said, is another debate. Nor do we believe that this approach is on the street today, in terms of the flu campaign. As far as childhood vaccinations are concerned, well, we believe that the problem is solved, because pediatricians and pediatricians effectively follow up on each patient's vaccination card. Therefore, as we said, we do not believe that it is a problem to be tackled urgently or that more public resources should be allocated than they are today. On the other hand, it's remarkable that the population's concern about vaccines. They want to make sure that the people are getting more and more informed. They see how consistent it is that more and more citizens have vaccine available. But they do not seem to give much importance to the procedure; that is to say, they neither plan nor do ask themselves how these vaccines and who they will put them in motion. Of course, thanks to the Popular Party, the 16,000 workers in our health system are out of legal coverage. The campaign against the flu is about to begin, and the decree of the Pionarian Party has made the professional practice of nurses. And Mr. Barrio asks himself what's going on in EAE, because of you, Mr. EAE, Mr. Barrio. Therefore, it is very good that you worry that citizens are aware of the launch of a vaccination campaign (the influenza campaign, for example), but it would be even better to worry about ensuring that our healthcare professional, particularly nurses and nurses, could be administering those vaccines that you are so supportive of with absolute legal certainty, without slowing down the system and without creating more problems than we already have. So, if you're planning to solve the problems we have, we're ready to work together. Besides, you'll have a chance today, because today we've registered the bill of law about the nurses' prescriptions. If you're trying to solve the jackpot you created, you'll have a hell of a chance for that next month. If you want to stay on the first cover of the onions, see for yourselves. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u97	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, before I began this point I had almost doubts as to whether there would be much more to contribute to my intervention, since I, in the overall philosophy of what Mr Barrio put forward on his initiative, at least in the original text, understood that all the parliamentary groups agree. Because vaccination is one of the most important achievements in the history of public health, and, in fact, we can all share that in this much progress has been made, that there is information, that the vaccination schedule is fulfilled and most of the population, although it is true that in recent times a certain "mode" has emerged – in quotes – of anti-vaccine groups, for the arguments that they and they defend. We understand that the vaccine is the main method of prevention, and so the society defends it. Mr Barrio explained to us what was the subject of his main initiative, and of course we share it. We also share Mrs Blanco's speech, since it is true that the issue of vaccines is something that is on the street and that concerns parents about what has to do with the schedule of vaccines for children, and the issue of the elderly, especially the schedule of compliance with influenza vaccines. It is not fair, Mr Barrio, that it should be clear from the situation that has occurred after the intervention of the Government of Spain in relation to the prescription of nursing, because we know and all know that many of the data that have to do with the vaccine, especially of the elderly in relation to the flu, have been because the nurses have been taken away from the possibility or the power to put vaccines. And you know it, indeed. But, as Mrs Blanco says, we may have an option to discuss it. They can deny it, or they can not deny it. You know that you have come to this Parliament collectively to appear in the Committee on Health; we have received three parliamentary groups, in our own groups, to these groups explaining what they were doing, what they are doing and what they think they should be doing in order to continue to serve society. But, as Mrs Eba Blanco said, there will be time to discuss it. I understand that the Government is campaigning, perhaps it can always be improved more, or it can continue to be incisive, and I do not think that this is why it is negative, but I do believe that progress has been made and that things are more than regular, I would say, in terms of this issue. And here I was going to finish my speech, because it is going to be supported by the three groups that have signed the amendment and even by the Bildu and Podemos groups, which, although they are going to abstain, I want to say that there will be no negative votes on this initiative, but, Mr Uria, I listen to you and I am concerned. Concerned, because you are specifically a health professional; therefore, you should be that voice that opens our eyes and minds in the Health Committee, and does not think we are more concerned. Because being in the Basque Parliament, and listening to you talking... well, politicians bought out no longer surprises me, because, in the end, they use it in health, in the environment, in industry and in everything they get. I don't share it, and I don't think everything's worth it. You can't come here and talk about vaccines and talk about whether they bought Aznar, Rajoy, Zapatero... I think... In short, everything is not good in politics, and certainly not in this either, but you talk about purchased health care, bought researchers, bought officials... Freely release it here, no data, no evidence, nothing. Let him go, there he is, and this binds him to the vaccines in Euskadi, which is what we've come to talk about? You've told us about the United States, about Obama, about everyone, but you belong to that group of Basque public health professionals, that health in which other autonomous communities are seen, to create more concern. I don't know what light, or what... It is a light at the end of that tunnel so black that you see, and, of course, my parliamentary group is far from being able to share it, because I believe that the group of health professionals are professionals. That there can be a rotten apple in a basket? Doctors, mailmen, cops and everything. But it does not seem fair to me that here you begin to talk about a generality, especially coming from a person like you, who professionally dedicates himself to this and that you know better than anyone many of the difficulties that health professionals have in accomplishing some things, as is the case with nurses, who should be doing and who, however, others have been responsible for breaking what has been usual. And in this, that I thought we were coming to talk about vaccines in Euskadi, because in the end we have the competence to do so and that's what we come to demand here, that our government use our taxes to be able to do this more and more, that our children receive at school those vaccines that were no longer put to them by the subject of nursing prescription, and that in the homes of elderly people are vaccinated by the flu because of the subject of nursing prescription made by the People's Party, comes to us and tells us categorical phrases like "In Africa children die and in Europe older people die". That the elderly die seems like a law of life touches; the problem is that children die in Africa. But don't mix it all up. We're not here to talk about this! Of course, the amendment you are putting forward is another debate, which is what Mr Barrio was saying. That can be expanded, that we can talk about the pharmaceutical industry, about everything behind it, that maybe public money can be used, if there is evidence for it, in a more efficient way, especially because it is public money and must be used better and better for citizens. But you can't talk about what seems to be happening to Obama; that you believe that Mr Zapatero (I put mys, gentlemen of the People's Party, because he is mys, for defending him) seems to have been bought; in the meantime, we bring in the researchers, and we conclude that in Africa children die and that in Europe older people die. Man, Mr. Uria, it's unserious, isn't it? It looks like me. Because it seems to me that, as you know, the issue of health is one of the most worrying things about Basque citizenship, if we attend to all the surveys we do to citizens. And you know that this has to be done, and that is why the general budgets of the Autonomous Community have an important weight when it comes to taking public money. We're gonna make that work better. Let us say that we are concerned that we will all be vaccinated in the best guarantees and that we will be able to eradicate certain diseases. But I believe, Mr. Uria, that we should not mix barbecues with merinas. Because when someone doesn't have concrete arguments to defend something concrete he ends up mixing everything with categorical phrases, and almost that could be done by me, that I don't, because I prepare the subjects well even though I haven't studied medicine, but you can't do it. It looks like me. It seemed to me that his intervention was somewhat irresponsible, of course by focusing little on the concrete, by talking a lot about the general, and by pulling to see how we arrived in order to justify that we are not going to support the original initiative. That we can all feel that it can be improved more or less, but in the end we all agree on the overall philosophy of the initiative. We therefore understand that campaigns, Mr Barrio, are necessary. The Government will surely be able to focus on improving the current situation on this issue. And, above all, we will wait for that initiative announced to us by Mrs Blanco, who will be registered by the EH Bildu group, and there we will also hear the views of all the parliamentary groups. Because the subject of nursing prescription has also had a great impact on what has to do with vaccination in Euskadi. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u98	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u99	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, and good afternoon to all. We have a very interesting subject on the table to confess vaccinations as reference. In fact, they are essential in public health and prevention of diseases. The Ceretos have done us a great service, and continue to bring us back; they have made a great contribution to health. Vaccines are therefore one of the health measures that have improved the overall health of the population and increased life expectancy. In fact, it is considered that for health systems it is one of the most successful and cost-effective interventions known, and has proved to be the most cost-effective and cost-effective when comparing the expenditure generated by vaccination with the expenditure resulting from suffering the disease and its consequences. And it is that vaccine-preventable diseases have a high cost, from the economic as well as health and social point of view. The contribution of vaccines to improving health and quality of life is therefore an irrefutable reality, and this has been repeatedly expressed by the Health Adviser, Mr Darpón. Its effectiveness in the fight for the prevention of a large number of diseases and to contain epidemic outbreaks responds to objective data, not mere conjectures. In short, vaccines are the most effective and safe tool we have today for disease prevention, as well as an element of social justice and equity in health. Our group agrees with these approaches, with this vision. We therefore believe it is essential that emphasis be placed on the importance of highlighting the need for vaccination in disease prevention. We therefore feel it appropriate for Parliament itself to endorse this statement, and in this respect, together with the Socialist Group, we have agreed on an amendment to compromise with the People's Group, the first paragraph of which contains precisely this issue which I have just mentioned. It is therefore clear that today almost no one doubts that vaccination programmes are one of the most valuable assets of public health. It is true, however, that, as those who have preceded me have already stated and pointed out, there are currents that are contrary to vaccination. It is also true that the antivaccine movements are not new; in fact, I think we can say that they are almost as old as the vaccines themselves. In any case, it is true that, although times have changed, these movements continue to exist. Concern about the safety of vaccines is one of the main arguments used by these anti-vaccine movements to discourage their use. However, experts clearly agree that the risks of vaccines are always lower than the benefits. They understand that the negative effects are minimal, and the coverage that is achieved by doing well the vaccination returns to great benefits. In fact, and so it is contrasted, when vaccination coverage decreases, the onset of many diseases increases. Its safety, therefore, is high, it is very high, and it is also the pharmaceutical products to which the highest safety standards are required. False beliefs and myths also influence the refusal to vaccines, as Mr Barrio pointed out earlier, too, and from the World Health Organization itself they are worrying about dismantling these kinds of false beliefs, insisting on clarifying a lot of contradictory information about vaccines today. The truth is that if vaccines were not used there would be many more cases of illness and more deaths. For this reason, the majority view is that its benefits far outweigh the risks, and the Department of Health understands that. Their concern on the issue of vaccination is permanent; in this regard, the continuous work that has been carried out in this area in recent decades by Basque institutions has led to a large decrease in the majority of cases of childhood immunopreventable diseases registered in Euskadi. The vaccination programmes in Euskadi, both in childhood and in adulthood, are regularly reviewed and adapted, due to changes in the behaviour of infectious diseases, following, as it cannot otherwise be, the recommendations of the Euskadi Vaccine Advisory Council, a council composed of a group of recognized professionals as experts in the field. This necessary revision must be aimed at ensuring that our vaccination schedules are correctly adapted to the immunization needs of our citizens. A review that is carried out with the advice of expert persons, qualified persons, with the precise knowledge in this field of action, thus ensuring the best possible guarantee in the decisions taken in each case. And we understand that this must continue to be the case; in fact, this has been reflected in the amendment that we have also negotiated. In this regard, in the framework of the 2013-2020 Health Plan, a thorough review and update of the child vaccination calendar has been carried out by the Basque Vaccine Advisory Council. Changes have been made to patterns, ages and doses of administration of some children's vaccines already included in the schedule, or new vaccines have been included, which makes today in Euskadi we have one of the highest and best coverage infant immunization schedules at state and European level. In addition, these adaptations have resulted in the incorporation of vaccines for the adult population, so that Euskadi has vaccination prevention at all stages of life. Also, from the Department of Health and Osakidetza, in clear line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization itself, which places special emphasis on the need to spread the importance of vaccination to protect people of all ages from disease, therefore the need to insist that people understand and understand the value of vaccines, as I say, from the Department of Health and Osakidetza for a long time has been doing important information work in relation to vaccines, because a good level of information on the benefits of vaccines and their potential risks is clearly going to help to increase awareness of their importance. In this regard, the Department of Health reports annually on the vaccination schedule and any new developments in relation to vaccines, and takes the opportunity to recall and emphasize the importance of vaccination for the population. In addition, it is essential that professionals and professionals in our health system be informed of the desirability of having access to vaccination as well, because it is clear that people working in the health field are more exposed to immunopredictable diseases and can pass them on to vulnerable people with whom they contact. It is therefore important to focus on this, as already done by the health centre prevention service, in coordination with the programme for the monitoring and control of infections and in collaboration with the epidemiological health campaigns designed by the Department of Health. It is therefore important to work to ensure that more and more professionals are vaccinated. And in this same vein, our group clearly values the desirability of being informed, of information campaigns being carried out, since it is essential that society be properly informed about the desirability of vaccination, so that it also generates an adequate climate of confidence towards such an effective and powerful tool in the prevention of diseases. We therefore believe that it is important that vaccination programmes should continue to be taken over by society as something fundamental to public health, as they have proved to be one of the most effective and beneficial measures. Thus, the compromise amendment we have agreed also reflects this idea, and urges the Basque Government to continue in this line of providing adequate information, in which it has been for many years. We are glad that we have managed to reach agreement on a compromise amendment in these terms, as we believe that this will reinforce the recognition of the value that throughout its history has shown and continues to demonstrate that it has vaccination. In any case, it is important, I believe, that we do not distort the sense of what we want to highlight and bring questions to bear that are not the subject of what is being dealt with at this time. Well, it has also been mentioned earlier, they may be the subject of other proposals, at other times, but of course we do not think it is appropriate to talk now about another series of issues that have come up here today. Well, in conclusion, I want to say that our group believes that it is essential to continue to enhance, encourage and encourage the use of vaccines, with due guarantees of effectiveness and safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u100	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Passing the answers, Mr. Barrio, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u101	Yes, thank you, President. Soon, from the seat. By telling Mr Uria, I understand some approaches, which, as I said before, must also be the subject of another analysis, right? Not this one. It was not a debate about pharmaceutical companies or laboratories, this debate. The mistrust that some people have about pharmaceutical companies or laboratories is something completely different from safety, than the need for vaccines, which we are certainly trying to defend with this parliamentary initiative and at the moment, in the face of some shortcomings or deficits that we are seeing lately in our environment. That was the purpose. If a pharmacist bribes or a health professional is bribed, then, of course, there will be first the courts, and also the ethics committees, professionals, the codes of good governance of health institutions and governments. I think that's the way it is. And, in addition, another of the issues that were part of a criticism that was there in the speech, in relation to the role of pharmaceutical companies and laboratories, in relation to the research of vaccines in other parts of the world and diseases, of course I believe that in WHO, the World Health Organization, its fundamental agents are the pharmaceutical companies themselves. I believe that moving in that mistrust, when many of them remain genuine agents and basic pillars of the public health system itself at the international level... Well, well, it could be discussed, because surely there will be ethical or inadequacies, but of course fundamentally what there is is an essential task in relation to public health. And Mrs Blanco also, of course, not to debate, has made some criticisms about our position, but she said a little bit more or less that I was left in the first layer of onion. Indeed, the first layer of onion is the vaccination of society, the effective vaccination. The fact that that doesn't go down. That is to say, if we are at 95%, and the trend is towards 90, the 90 is already very serious, it would be a very serious situation. And that's happening in countries around us. And that was the fundamental element, in relation to the antivacuum movements and in relation to the situation we see in healthcare professionals like ours. That is good, that they do not want to be vaccinated and that they are in their right, because vaccination is not compulsory, but it is a reference, if we are talking about health promotion, disease prevention, if some behaviors are of these characteristics. That's what we wanted to make clear. Will that be staying on the first layer of the onion? Well, it's possible. That the following layers of onion are economic interests, pharmaceutical companies, laboratories? Well, they may be the next layer of onion. But I, of course, stayed in the first layer of the onion, or with that goodism that you were talking about, consciously, because that was the look. In relation to the procedure, the prescription, look, the prescription is something else. Vaccines are prescribed, and everyone who needs the vaccine and has to be vaccinated is vaccinated. The problem is not prescription in relation to nursing, in relation to vaccination. That is another debate that we can enter at any time (you have already announced it, and we will enter), but the problem of vaccination is not the prescription, Mrs. Blanco, that you have taken advantage of that moment to mess with us, but what we are doing is defending compliance with the law in relation to the prescription at this time. We move in that area, that is, that criticism of the prescription is very simple. I mean, I don't know if it's good, but in the face of the risks we put this initiative forward. And, of course, a bad thing I have already said before: nothing more than 30% of health care workers are vaccinated. 30% of the staff, who are looking after the chronically ill, the elderly... And a good fact, which must also be said because it is good: in five years of applying vaccination in Euskadi and two million vaccines, none with serious or very serious health effects. That is the fundamental element, and that is what must continue to be strengthened. I said before: in the field of vaccination, 95% or less of people, especially children. But in countries around us they are falling to 90, and that threshold is absolutely dangerous. And, of course, public administrations and the Department of Health will do well if they increase certain approaches and certain campaigns and behaviours in relation to vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u103	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, colleagues, I don't really know what we've come here to talk about. Let us see, when there are problems in the field of politics, the debates are political. Who makes decisions about vaccination policy? The politicians. Who makes decisions to put the pneumococcal vaccine or chickenpox vaccine into action? If there is real competition between the autonomous communities, to see who is faster, to see who is more politically legitimized by putting one more or one less vaccine! Look, Red Natalia, I've been cautious and discreet and I didn't want to raise specific issues, but if you tell me what data you want, I'll be happy to tell you. It was a shame, at the end of Patxi López's government, to use the pneumococcus vaccine in the middle of the electoral campaign, to the extent that the Central Electoral Board banned him from presenting the vaccine, as the Electoral Board considered it an act of political propaganda. More stuff. The first to put the vaccine for pneumococcus and chickenpox were the Government of the Community of Madrid and the Government of the Community of Galicia, and then there was a cascade. Jon Darpón, our advisor, whom I respect, contradicted at least three times with pneumococcal vaccine and chickenpox vaccine. Why? Because they didn't have clear technical reports of any vaccine, which is the safety-effectiveness ratio. Because they weren't clear to the technicians. But the politicians... The Community of Madrid was an example, obviously: when no one started, it began to vaccinate its community, for more votes. So, if these issues of vaccines come into the political sphere, why do you say we don't talk about things that have nothing to do with the issues we have brought in? I accept the proposal of Begoña, the parliamentary companion and friend, of Natalia Rojo and Carmelo Barrio, to make a monograph on the topic of pharmaceutical companies and their ethical relations with health professionals. Not only do I accept that I would be delighted to have a debate on this very sensitive subject in the Committee on Health or in Parliament. What do you want, Natalia, to tell you the names of how many people on the Basque Vaccination Committee go, year after year, to the epidemiology congresses of the Vaccinology Society, paid in five-star hotels? Shall I tell you how many members? Do I tell you the names? What do you want? Why are you asking me for data? Why do you say I say general things? I set criteria for analysing a problem that is in the political sphere! And I said at the beginning of my speech, I support the proposal by Carmelo Barrio, our parliamentarian and friend; I support the criteria of criticism against vaccine. I know the history of antivacuums, so much so that by antivacuums, when measles was practically eradicated in the United States, there were 400,000 cases of measles in less than two years. I know the story! What data do you want, Red Natalia? We have different vaccination schedules in the seventeen autonomous communities. What happens, that there are first and second experts in different autonomous communities? They are the same experts, but decisions are political, and they also have to do with the sustainability of our health system. Is this the problem of vaccination of our children? No! No! We have 97% coverage in vaccination. And there's also one thing that's called herd effect. The effect is that viruses and circulating bacteria, when coverage – as Congressman Barrio has rightly said – have more than 90%, are neutralized. We don't have any vaccination problems. We have problems with those who want to put vaccines on the market that have no epidemiological need, and because they exist on the market and (like chickenpox and like the one that is now coming from the herpes zoster) there are no criteria for disease, complications, epidemics or the number of deaths. There are no criteria, but we have to sell them. This is a problem that confuses many of us. I don't want to get into an 11-bar shirt, but here we've come to talk about politics, not public health. Because, for anyone who wants to talk about public health, we sit down and talk about public health whenever and as we please. And if you want the Red MP to have some specific data that supports some of the demagogic statements that I have said, I am at your disposal, you know, every day in Parliament and in the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco from there?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u105	Yes, thank you. With your permission, Mr. President, from your seat, just to answer Mr. Barri. Mr Barrio said that by taking advantage of the passing of the GNP, we have gone against the People's Party in this case, but of course we do see that it has something to do with the other. Because what you're asking here is for a vaccination campaign to begin. A vaccination campaign is started, and then those vaccines someone has to put on. I mean, one, or one, can't go to the pharmacy to buy the vaccine and put it on itself. You'll have to go to your health center and you'll have to administer it. But it is that, thanks to you and your royal decree, that can no longer be done as it has been done. No, because thanks to its royal decree now patients should first pass through their family doctor, evaluate it, make a prescription, a prescription, then put the vaccine, and then follow up. All this thanks to you and to Mr Alonso's royal decree, which is surprising that he is not in this debate, indeed. And it is that you have been the ones who have put this system up, and you have been the ones who have created here a conflict between professionals. And it's true that sometimes we talk about decrees and real decrees and, of course, not everyone has to know them, obviously, but I'm going to make a very easy comparison for you to understand: you're asking me to take you to clean my car, mine, when you've punctured my four wheels. So, don't pinch my wheels, or change them, and I'll be the one to clean the car, and I'll leave it nickel-plated. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs Rojo, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u107	Thank you, President. Who makes the political decisions? The politicians. Who makes the medical decisions? Specialists and professionals in each of the specialties of medicine. That's the way it must be. I, being a member of this Basque Parliament, have gone to environmental forums, some international, with Mrs Oregi, for example, and I was not bought, regardless of the stars of the hotel, from whom I organized the congress and the forum, and on which plane I was going. And I'm talking about myself because I can't talk about who was accompanying me in those forums. World Water Forum in Mexico. I was not bought, nor did I come to this Parliament and make a decision, in the Water Law, linked to who organized that forum or who mounted that at that hotel. And you want to take us all to that totum revolution that uses your party here and at the national level to try to stain the prestige of whom. And I ask you: Do you know health professionals who have attended conferences organized by certain pharmaceutical companies and who have later made certain decisions, with an ethics that we are going to question, according to your own statement? Do you know them? I ask you the names. If you know them, go to court, and if you don't, you're irresponsible. That's what I'm telling you. And it's not worth saying "purchased politics." Who, by whom and when? To the courts! It is not worth coming to a rostrum and staining the name of collectives in general, because you have forgotten that when you talk about politicians in general, trying to stain the name of the collective, it is that you are also politicians now. They're part of the collective we all form. What is it that there are politicians bought! What data...? I want reals, names and surnames. And what I'm asking you after is that, since you're so informed, you go to court. Because if that's the case, those people will have to pay for what they're doing. But you can't come here and "Red MP, what data do you want?". What do you want me to say? I want to be serious, I don't want there to be demagoguery, I don't want it to be lacking in the truth, and I want you to do real politics – which, of course, is your obligation because for that reason you are, being an opposition party – to do real politics. And come and tell Mr. Darpón, "Look, there's 2% of children who don't get vaccinated, and answer this," or "Please investigate why they don't get vaccinated." But you can't come here with categorical claims, hey! That's what I'm asking. And then he says... Which, look, I would never have told you, because I don't think so either. And you say, "Because when Mr. Lopez's government ended, he even had to take that act." First, you can't confuse what the vaccine was with the act in which it was going to occur (churras with merinas again). And why do I tell you this, Mr. Uria? Because at that time you worked very closely with the health group of the Basque Socialist Party, with Bengoa at the head. Looks like it didn't look that bad. I mean, I can think of it. And it has nothing to do with what the Patxi López government understood, with Mr. Bengoa as a counselor, regarding a specific vaccine, with the act in which he was going to present the vaccine. It's like, "In Africa children die, in Europe elderly people die." Well, look, here we come to do politics, actually, but not in any way, not at any price, not touching everything, not creating social alarms. And I say the same to you again: we are at a fairly serious political moment, in general, that it would be wise for those of us who engage in the activity of politics to have measure, responsibility, and when we stand before a rostrum we would have arguments, data and a little bit of ideology. Let's see if we get back to the ethics we had before and stop doing politics with big headlines. Because I'm very young, but I've been here a long time, and it can be compared. And, Mr. Uria, you are a doctor, and you should have come here to talk about vaccines defending your group of professionals, and to say that, in fact, what the gentlemen of the PP did with the prescription of nursing – Mr. Barrio, which is not how you tell it – has made doctors now have more work, nurses have been taken away from them, and we have the system of vaccines as we have it. That's what you, in my opinion, should have come to tell us here as a healthcare professional. And I don't even accept that politicians are bought, in general, that pharmaceutical companies are the buyers, that those who go to congresses make decisions depending on who pays them the five-star hotel... Hey, look, a little serious. Maybe it's been a year and they need a little bit more, but of course the political parties that we have history and ideology (and I speak for mine), of bought, nothing. We've come to talk about health and vaccines in Euskadi. You say, "We've come to talk about politics, not public health." But of course not! Public health policy. Or politics in general? Or are we going to eliminate all parliamentary committees because we're not going to talk about the sector, because that's why we don't come and we can talk about it in the cafeteria? Hey, Mr. Uria, really, I don't think you understand what you're doing sitting in that seat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u108	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Miss Otalora, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u109	Bai, President Andrea, briefly. Well, actually, I didn't intend to intervene on a topic where I saw that we all agreed, on the importance and value of vaccines. What happens is that seeing the course that has taken the debate, in which each group has put various issues on the table, I simply want to make it clear that in these cases, in which we have brought an issue on which, I insist, I think we all agree, in the end I think it loses value what we really want, that, to give importance. So, well, I think it's a shame. No more, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u110	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Euzian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-05.u111	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. "The institutional expression of the U.S. Act of the U.S. because of the need of aid in the supply of nutriment which the saharians inhabit in the region of refugees. "Because the U.S. of the serious nutriment of the sahares in the area of the Cndufer, which has lately increased by the economic crisis and by the difficult climatological and geography of the witnesses which they live in, it means: "The U.S.P.S.P.P. and Euscal Frendo are asking them to go on, and, if need be, with more effort and plan to help the refuxes, to respond to their wants, and to pay special attention to the nutriment that now endures. "In this respect, we call ACNUR especially on these grounds, because of this crisis. "The Basque Parliament urges the European Union to release the total of the corresponding economic allocation approved for the Saharan refugee camps for 2017 and to consider expanding it due to the food crisis. "The recently adopted Vitoria-Gasteiz Declaration, of 30 September 2017, in the work of the XXI Conference of Intergroups of Parliamentarians Peace and Freedom for the Saharawi People, calls on the State authorities to 'increase cooperation and humanitarian aid to the Saharan population, both in refugee camps and in the occupied territories, by noting with concern the reduction of the contributions of the Spanish Agency for Cooperation in recent years'. Halaber, skatzen of the 'bultza dadila Europak diru gehiago ematea Mendebaldeko Saharari'". Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
