ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And today, with a minute's silence, in honor of Enrique Casas and Fernando Bues. [[Pause]] I inform you that the fifth point has been retired. And the first theme in advance: "To decide once for all the drawings of the February 16th party according to the 92.1 article of the ruler, as far as the other bill of Parliamentary Group is concerned with the reform of the taxes." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u1	So he's not accepted. Second item in advance: "To decide once for all the drawings of the February 16th party, according to the 92.1 article of the ruler, as regards the other proposal made by the Parliamentary Podemos, about regulating the ultimate prices of light." [[Berber]] It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. Let's vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u2	So, since it's a draw, it's cancelled. First point in theme list: "Modion, introduced by the members of the Mireguon de Gauna EH Collectal team, about the projects of my plans to go beyond the management of the legal law enforcement of modern legal frames. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Irriart, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u3	Chief of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the department, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature. Good morning. I'm back in cars this time. And in order to begin speaking of the autogony, let me look for a moment at the Kursal of Donostalia, which was a academic act, the Basques met yesterday. An excellent lesson, from which they had been taught solidarity with Catalonia, and this Parliament was not able to show the people by an institutional expression (for we have only three groups of men here), and the government itself sent no one to Barcelona 15 days ago. So Community to Catalonia. And, on the other hand, it was clear that this people is alive and that they want to decide, and that they will not be allowed to do so. The President Barchek said that what we don't do here yesterday is not going to happen to us outside, that you don't have to make excuses in Brussels, Paris or Madrid. But as I doubt whether this government has a will to do things, and does things, I see a government which has no pulse in this sense, and I think we ought to have certain plans in this sense. And again a constance, and this is the last 15 days, because many of the companies that make fun of the Spanish Government, the laws of the State, and the political use of the Federal Court of Spain, have exposed to the narrower and regenerational policy of Guernica. What several Spanish governments have done for many long years, using the law to follow, but without executing the law. Some of you will know what I'm about to say now, but if we're in this legislature, there's a lot of new people and there's a lot of young people. And by making a quick present, I'll go to 1998, where the Act of the Eacht of Ajuria is signed, and there it was demanded that the fulfillment of the State of Guernica, the principles and the rarity (singularness) should be a supporter of democratic confidence and common life. That's what he said. And from then on, if it be not every year, the different worshippers have demanded a few reflections or reports, from the consequence of the fulfillment of this Common-wealth. And so in 1992 we have a report on the Bridge in 1993 about the expansion of the State of Guernica, another report in the same sense in 1995. Speaking of this 10th, in the year 1990, the right of self-determination was adopted, and more, it seems, as an expression, than of determination. And as I speak of reports, in 2001 and 2002 and 2003, similar reports have been made about the effects of not keeping the state of Guernica, and the consequences of the damages that have been brought to the Euscal Autonomy Esar. In 2004, we had a new political state of the Erkadian Escade, and you all know his answer. There are two expressions which I would like to mention before I came to the last few years. One, from Jesús Posada, at that time, the Ministry of the Public Administration of the Papal Party, said he: "Cumbplor el Stateto de Gerica es imposical con la Contición." That's what he said. The fact is, since he said it, 15 years ago, and what has not happened has shown us that at least they were sufficiently convinced of it, and all the governments that have followed it. And in between we heard another statement about this Gernic State of Guernica, who was the vice president of this Euskana, the vicepresident of Zenacincibitia: "Stateo nonato en una part y adordo ostera, dando como conse Venencia un autogobierno floato, sinigio, en la medicda en que no puede hacerte fatto de socied." I don't know whether you agree or not with this definition now, but few things have changed since then. And that's how we've been doing all the different reports since then, making different pomps and lists. The authority of the Spanish Government was enumerated by the Autogony of the preceding Law; and those rights you receive from the Jeltist Party, and from the Society of the Social Party, are necessary to you. The government of Spain has always shown the homogeneizing and recerative position, and, moreover, the reasons and tactics of Spain, which I think and in our opinion are very clear. They want to Homogeneize, because that's the way they do it, to put together the peculiarities of the Basque Country or Catalonia or Galicia. The challenge, I think, is in front of us, and we only have a look at Catalonia. And whatever happens, nothing will be the same. So there's the challenge. We've been here 2017 constantly putting the brakes to carry on this town. year, and, of course, as the years pass by, things have not improved, because in many respects we have new degrees of innovation, because they have made great strides, because they have new wants, because we have new problems, and we must give new answers to these questions, and that in many cases we have difficulty. We have taken the data to this tribe and to the committee that confirms all this. And I repeat, that we have known and received, for instance, the influence of the Constitutional Court of Spain. In his performance, the chief physician of the Renaissance informed us of the plans of his division. And on top of the table, I said that when I started, it was another concession that I heard of in 15 days. On the table we have the impossibility of calling public workmen, of suspending them. We have also in our hands affairs; we know that the limits of Europe established are too great, and that Spain, owing to its particular affairs, puts other limits to us, and that they give us difficulty, which will not allow us to advance. But he put them on us. We see addictions, inconveniences, and burdens. At least two weeks ago Mrs. Tapia asked the Spanish Government not to interfere. He was referring to the problem of steel and the price of energy. Araba, the people of Bizkai, and the people of Gipuzah, spoke about two matters which directly affect the Enpresias. In fact, we're talking about subjects which have the right influence on the everyday population, and we think we can't play with them. It would seem as if I were defending the State of Guernica, and, without taking any part in its benefits, my focus is not there. My focus is in this, that Spain does not keep the word given, and, as I said before, the problem here is dependence. You, members of the government, have been the hot defenders of the state, but you see the result. And maybe it's because she was full of traps and maybe those traps, because we didn't handle them well enough. We talked about the concert and the cup last week. President Urkullu himself, better acquainted with the importance of the concert, told society how to spread it, cared for it, put it on the table last week. He told Mrs. Pindo that the concert has the full protection of legislation, and that the Spanish Constitution and the government of Guernica give a legal protection to the system. The President said: "The established laws, the agreement, are." But when he said this, he admitted that it was impossible for us to make a treaty or to stay together for 2011 years, even if things have begun to move now. It is, therefore, a question I have said before, but difference and agreement do not differ from each other; they are only when they happen in the same manner, which I think is our business. The problem of the matter between our hands is, I think, the code problem. In fact, we have to discuss a new state, we're about to start talking about a new state. We must appeal to a state which will not here perpetuate the state, to a non-sensical state, to a sovereign state. And whether we have the sovereignty or not, that's the point. It doesn't share. If it is shared, then if it is decided to share, and we-to-day-have no share. It is not the first time that I say that this is the consequence of a well-thinked strategy, and that they want to keep us involved with some transfers we have or have not, and that we have come to the end to this day. I think that we must make a step, that we must leap, because this people has a right to determine its future, and that which democraticly decides the peoples democraticly is superior to any order and any legislation. This government has an excellent opportunity, as a defender of the auto-generacy, as it is identified by unburied transfers, and is determined by the necessity, in order to make a plan of putting all this in effect. So we need deadlines and conditions to work on. Not only that: we believe that if this people should continue, it is necessary for this government to identify and determine, in a short time, what jurisdiction we need of Araba, Uskaia, and Gipuzia in the 21st. to answer to the society of the century, at least to the 21st. the first intermediate society of the century. What's the meaning of this? How will he do that? To answer the needs of this society during the interval, as it has done in other areas, what steps does it take? And what speed is it that will admit it? Zero speed, like so far? Because so far, we've been doing zero speed for many years. So, what's the speed you're gonna take when you're done with it? This people are now in need, and we must overcome this situation which has lasted so many years, because we have new needs long ago. And the power has not yet begun to work, and we are going to work hard on it, so don't hesitate. We've already begun that. But we think that there are several previous jobs that can be put into action. Hence we demand that the legislature should accuse the laws of the Spanish State and the strict and restrictive attitude of the Constitutional Courts of Spain to the State of Gunika, but that after such concessions as these, I believe that it is time for us to begin the work of our house, and begin our plans for several periods. I'm here today on an interpelation, and that's why this motion is on the table. I wish we had no need of this motion, in fact, if the government had given us an answer when it was an intermediary, because it seemed to me that it was for the public good, and that we ought to know what plans are to be made for the purpose of getting what is necessary. We told the villagers that we would do this job and we'll do this job. We will be loyal to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u5	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. Last January in this House we had a debate to approve the constitution of a specific presentation on self-government, which clearly pointed out the will of this Parliament to agree on the basis for a new statute; a basis, a new status that must be supported by a broad and plural majority of Basques and Basques. In this respect, the vocation of this Parliament to address the issues of the legal-political framework within the above-mentioned presentation was clear. But, even more so, he also stated that these issues should have as their fundamental guide the democratically expressed political will of Basque citizens. Not just that. It is that, at the initiative of this group that speaks to them, a key element was also incorporated: the conception of self-government in a broad sense, which goes beyond the merely territorial; which includes, among other aspects, the consolidation and extension of social, economic and cultural rights, intergenerational solidarity, the design of the internal institutional architecture of Euskadi or new forms of relationship between institutions and citizenship. In these brief words with which I begin I have gathered several literal quotations from this agreement. Why? Because I believe that we have all the strength in this House, because all the possible issues are also within that framework, and because within that framework there is also the content debate brought by Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal here today. On the question proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu of demanding full compliance with the current Statute of Gernika and curbing the re-centralizing dynamics that are taking place especially with the Rajoy Government, we agree, without any problem. In fact, there have already been successive agreements in this House on this issue, for example in 1994 or 2003. It is clear that there is a serious problem regarding the fulfilment of the Statute and the complete transfer of competences to Euskadi, and, in fact, it is very difficult to define what the responsibilities are on this issue, since we have not only encountered a rigour of non-compliances, interpretations and reinterpretations led by all the forces that supported the Statute, distorting in many cases the same agreement, but we have also encountered LOAPA or laws of abusive bases. But we have also seen how these skills were used as a currency of exchange to reach agreements in other areas, such as investments and general budgets. That is why we have brought here today a compromise, which we have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, which sets two clear and necessary objectives. One is to continue along the open path with the constitution of the self-government paper, and the second is to demand unequivocally the fulfillment of the present Statute, and without prejudice to the above, of the path that this self-government paper will take. These are two paths that can work perfectly in parallel and that do not have to collide with each other. The first is to strengthen the role of this presentation in the development of a new status that shields the social and political rights of citizens, asking this House to reaffirm itself in the values agreed a month ago and putting on it a task: to define what new information and what new documentation this presentation will need for the further development of its work. The second objective is equally clear: to request, apart from the conclusion of the debate on the updating of self-government, a public commitment to the central government for the full implementation of the Gernika Statute and the transfer of the remaining competences to the Basque institutions. As we have repeated more than once, self-government is the best tool we have at our disposal to protect and guarantee the social rights of citizens. At a time when social inequality is increasing, the precariousness of work is increasing, young people are suffering a crisis of future expectations, or, worse, we are suffering a migration crisis of our young people (these people are looking for opportunities outside), it is necessary not only that we have all the tools that suit us for the social development of our country, but that we use them intelligently and boldly, that we understand them as a collective good that allows us to move forward in a less unequal country, which in turn means having a more democratic country. We need the tools that guarantee a decent life for people, and the tools that guarantee the increase of the capacity of our citizens to decide for the design of a democratically advanced country, which can define its territorial fit but also its economic model and also its social model. Some of these tools are covered by the current Statute, and we therefore demand here and without compromise from the central government a public commitment to the transfer of these powers. And we also ask the Basque Government to work with loyalty, without political marketing, in the spaces and mechanisms necessary for the implementation of this request in the fastest and most effective way. The other tools we have to create, we have to develop them among all, within the framework of a presentation that will allow us to define a new social pact between Basques and Basques that we want for the development of our country in the coming decades. A paper in which we will have to decide whether we want a more democratic, more social, more participatory country that takes care of its elders, its young people, its workers, in which women are equal with men, or yes, therefore, we want a country that is a reflection of what it could have been. Our bet is clear. We bet on the space of the paper to establish the mechanisms that will allow us to re-reference innovative social policies and to shield many of our achievements in our texts of higher legal rank. We bet on the space of the paper to recognize the outstanding identity and political plurality of Basque society, the recognition of Euskadi as a nation, and to achieve a new territorial status that, I repeat, has the adherence of a broad social majority, and in addition to a cross-cutting majority in the identity. And we bet on the space of the paper to materialize the legal channels necessary for any political project to be carried out, without legal roof to the will democratically expressed by the citizenry. In order to get to this point, we did not need so many pots and, in our opinion, we did not need to come to this proposal, because we had already arrived at this in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u6	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u7	Thank you, President. For we, like Elkarrekin Podemos, have also drawn attention to this motion. For a number of reasons. Because its statement speaks of overcoming the mismanagement of the limits of the current legal-political framework, but the operative part, what Bildu proposes to this Parliament about what this Parliament is saying, is precisely about the management of the limits of the current legal framework of what it is talking about. What it proposes is to identify all outstanding transfers that are already recognized in the current legal framework, which is the Statute of Gernika. Then it is true that they ask to identify other competences not contemplated, and, as Bildu well knows – because that group also did its work in the previous legislature – that identification has already been made by all groups, except Podemos, who will incorporate them in the coming days. These identifications are made by each one, with the criterion and vision that each one has, and we had left it at that point that we were going to make the shared diagnosis that laid the basis for an agreement. We had left it to the Government not to do so, because you too, from that bench, from Bildu, have advocated that this task be done by Parliament, not by the Government, and in fact all groups, without exception, have already appointed those we want to participate in that work. So, except that Bildu comes to do here again the debate that we have all committed ourselves to working on the self-government presentation, the only new thing I find in his proposal is precisely that intention to fulfill what is established by the current law, that law that is called the Statute of Gernika, that we managed to agree Basques and Basques of different sensibilities thirty-seven years ago, although it is true that there were Basques and Basques who did not want to participate, and even Basques and Basques who committed themselves to despise and whose development were inhibited, and that is why I highlight this novelty. I'll say not from all of Bildu's bench, it's not from all of her. This group does not usually like to be ignored that they are a coalition of several parties, and we have no way of recognizing that there is any party of that coalition that has also been an active agent in the construction of that self-government that, with its shortcomings and imperfections, has allowed the greatest progress that this country has ever had. Some parties in this coalition have been there, they have even been responsible from the government, but the majority current of the abertzale left of your group, with the name you have chosen on this occasion, has been inhibited by that effort that others have had to build the Euskadi that we have. An experience of success is looked at where you look, Mrs. Iriarte. Not only were they inhibited in the Statute, but also in everything else: in making Osakidetza possible, in which the ikastolas are not ghettos for euskaldunes and integrate into the public network, in the birth and maintenance of our social protection network, in Lanbide, in the Law of Normalization of the Use of Euskera, in that of ETB, on which we heard here the other day declarations of love... None of this has ever been the party that with its different acronyms represented an important political sensibility that was in this Parliament. And I want to keep that now, because it's a fact to keep in mind. Because you, in every debate, also in this one, take out the wild bosom of sovereignty as a solution to all evils. Just as we talk about Osakidetza's waiting lists as well as a labor dispute in a company: the solution is always sovereignty, because the limits of the legal framework do not allow us to do things differently, as if independence frees us from circumstances beyond our own management, or from obligations entered into with other entities beyond the evil Spanish State that oppresses us. And now, after that four-decade trip, they are calling for an outstanding transfer report, which, by the way, already exists in this Parliament, and they are doing so by trying to place duties on a government that had it as clear as it was born out of an agreement between two parties that they say that that catalogue needs to be updated. Because there, at that time when the traditional abertzale left had a seat but preferred not to use it, or to use it little, or to use it sometimes, we already agreed, from another coalition government with the same parties that we are now, to identify those issues that are still to be assumed and that the Statute contained. And that report is a reference, although it needs to be updated, because there are transfers that were pending and are now assumed; because there are economic circumstances that require nuances; because there are other matters, including the obligations we have entered into with the European Union, that also require another interpretation, and because there are things where different views have allowed us the point of agreement that requires such a transfer. Socialists like to talk more about outstanding matters than about nominal competences; not because of any partisan pruritus: it is more practical, it is more efficient, and because it is what then also often generates conflicts before the Constitution. As, for example, the Housing Act: our Statute confers competence on Euskadi in this matter, the Constitution confers on the central administration the powers to regulate private property, we are convinced that this law reconciles the two things, but what the Constitution has not in the end called into question is our ability to recognize the subjective right to housing, thus to a net expansion of social rights. And that didn't require a transfer. It is in force, and we believe it is an unbeatable way to make sense of self-government. In any case, there is no doubt that there is a catalogue of services that have not been transferred and that require negotiation yes or yes. And that negotiation is bilateral, because that is the concept of the Joint Transfer Commission, where, in addition to recognition, what is required is to negotiate how existing resources, both material and human, are transferred, and to establish an economic assessment, because it affects the Cup. That is why we say that, without prejudice to starting to establish negotiating processes in some of these transfers, we are going to update from where we are all, this Parliament, this presentation, the reports of the 1990s, on the basis of a technical proposal that (that is) the Government makes to us. Because the socialists share that reflection that political decisions based on only partial interpretations – and theirs often is – have prevented them from completing all the potential that the Statute still holds. Nor can many flowers be put on the Spanish Government's interpretation of Basque self-government. We will repeat until we are finished hearing that the lack of political capacity is the one that has placed responsibility on the judges, where it should never have arrived, and that it is time to pull that policy out of the courts. And that is done by the forced path of dialogue and agreement. We are going to commit ourselves to that, and the compact that the Government supports places special emphasis on that relentless search for channels to resolve that search. We've already seen some clues. I do not want to go into whether the Spanish Government is insinuating any new attitude, because it intends to make the need for virtue. At the moment, we answer the things he says, although he's about to see the things he does. But in principle we Socialists appreciate that a channel has been opened to solve the problem we are facing with the quota (which is no longer a question of listing transfers, but of loyalty to what is foreseen in the self-government), or how it has been prevented from ending in the Constitution a law threatened with blockade, or how the Secretary of Human Rights, to ask from the Socialist Group the other day, confirmed that work is also being done to prevent the blockade of another law very felt by us, such as that of police abuses. Although we have seen that in other cases it would seem that it has not been avoided. In short, dialogue, rigour, consensus and legality, that is the way, and we will address it in the presentation. It is not a kick up before this motion, which sincerely seems absolutely unnecessary to us at this time. That is what we are committed to as a will of Government, if all groups are willing to share that analysis of the pending. And there we will probably also have on the table Constitutional judgments, judgments that are binding, although we believe that many times they should not have gone that far, but that they include conflicting legal assessments on where we can also find ways to untie the stuck. I say this because one of the intentions of this motion was also to reiterate this kind of permanent demonization of the Constitution, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid and Artur Mas yesterday through Donostia. Finally, we already know that Mas has become for you, the revolutionary left, a sort of mass idol. A gentleman from the Catalan bourgeoisie of all his life, who has never supported independence, who set in motion the cutting machinery in Catalonia before anywhere, and then desperately embraced the cause of independence to save himself politically. But, well, I was quoting the full legal decisions of the Constitutional Court – because I think it is necessary to read them completely – because, although what is going to be at Mass is what is being said, there are many reflections to be taken into account, which, by the way, have come in the last few days from a person whom Mr Erkoreka knows to be a fan, who is Vice President Adela Asua. And I will have to say that we Socialists are proud to have proposed in their day, and to have obtained the endorsement of that House, someone who has such a profound concept of the development of self-government as the Constitution allows. And that is what we will be talking about at once, and the area has decided a month ago, as Mr Martínez reminded us, this very House. We all have a seat in the paper, and there we will again see that this successful experience of the Statute still has a way to explore, it is true, without prejudice to the fact that it can be improved from consensus and from legality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u9	Good morning, everyone. The motion presented by the collected EH, as a consequence of the interpelration. We know the debate, the questions, the answers. At that moment we know the President's answer. And I think this is where you're shortening something that I don't know for the first time or for the 15 days, those attempts that the departments have completed, what you've seen. It's as if it were the title of what's the limit of the legal-polyptic frame and what's going to happen about the management of those boundaries, whether it's going to move inside or out of it. And you see you haven't noticed any intention or will to go any further, and you say that you don't have plans to fill the state, much less to identify and get the rights that the State tells us. There's a three-point motive. The former, the accusation, that is to say, the continual and niggardly reading of the Spanish Government, and the central government. We agree with that indictment. And besides, the very words used by Mr. Erkoa, but the words of a chief physician, let's confirm them, I don't know... Politics is something else. It'll work out and we'll all learn that way. Declarations, words, are there, but two requests are made. One, I'm just asking you about the state development of the State, the exact plan and calendar, which is still unfinished today. And the second demand, the census of those rights, which the necessity of the people shall be properly satisfied. And the others have also said, but I think we have to discuss all this because it's self-reference. We all have prejudice. I've seen it here, for instance, when it says that the development of the State has been known for many years from the hands of a Mercadal given by such politics... As a matter of fact, I believe that we ought to leave this name of Mercade on the side of the question, why, by nature, all an organic law, which was adopted by the 25th of October 1979, the state itself retains in its parts, and says in what period all the rights should be transferred. And it was the prevision in a year, at most in the year and in the middle of the year, and there's the media going down there, all the parts being transferred. What happened a year later, it was 10 months later, the coup of the state was a coup, and one of the goals of the coup of the state was a state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state state and self-organization. And from there, from after. I think it's clear, that those who negotiated the state, I don't know, but some of the people who acted on them thought they'd gone too far away with it. And then what the state does is cut. And every time that there has been an opportunity, our party has been continually using it in the themes which have been most of this legislature, in order to be modified and transferred by hand. It's different. And that's not a question of jam, why the law has every right to control you, and also to keep track of all these things, and see by parts, every time the state has developed, that's why. And I'll remind you of something else. Suárez insisted on transfering the Economic Concert Concert, and those who were for the State at that time, we went out into the street. And it was said to him, if it was not transferable, that the Basque institutions would declare person where grata was. Then at other times, when we were in command with the Socialist Party and Philip Gonzálezle, was told at a certain moment, that the Basque Institutions had defined it, if the Jurisdictions of Insalud and Inserso did not change their hands before December 31, the heads of the Social Party were excluded from the Government, and they were transferred. If that's the Mercade. No. Constantly, in order to execute a law which is naturally connected with the Euscal institutions of war. That's it. And the State has pointed out its limits, and the first report has been about it. This is when, in the previous law, the power of the self-organization is organized, as well as the Jelt Party of the Eunct, demands that report. I mean, what are the consequences of not keeping the state, economic, social, and political consequences? That's listed, and that's why I'm surprised to ask you to do the same job again. Yes, because it's called: "Do and then bring me a plan, and see how you will do it." Yes, we often hear these things, and some of them seem accustomed to making politics... "Let others establish it, and then I will give my opinion." But, you see, we're organising a self-interest, the report's right there. We call them the Social Security regime and prisons. These are the priorities. That's answered. That's why, when you say it, you see the future, every one of us who sees where those rights that the Basques will be satisfied... That's why we have the power, as far as I know. You see, in the previous law, when the report was asked, EH Collect ordered three reports. Do you know what he ordered? One, a report on the state of the eucaïc. Report about the relationship between the two, the Arabs, the Gipus and the Biscaias with the rest of the Basque Country. And three, a report about the relationships with the rest of the Basque Country organizations. Those were the reports. We're the ones who asked for reports and plans about misconducted state, and that's what I'm saying. In the second place, a report about the relations between Eukal Autonomy and the Spanish State, which he also did. Others, the Populous Party, and above all the reports of independence required byUPyD-that is to say, the defect, the disadvantage of an independent Basque people-that is to say, two or three reports were demanded of the Spanish Government, and we agreed and said: "Come on, let's have a studio where an independent Basque would have a future to do it." A few months later, the head of the Spanish Government, Mr. Urquijo, came in, saying that they would not make these reports, because it was no longer a matter of data: because it is not the right of this parliament to think of an independent Basque Country or Basquedi. Then the report is reported. They're all right. Therefore what we have done is a medium, that if any one should think it necessary, let him say more; and, in particular, what additional information is there to be found in the self-organization, let him demand, and we shall add it amongst them all. But then work is for power. Let's not always watch, it's time to get wet. And when the time comes to get wet, every one introduces his reports in writing, and EH collected introduced them: Advising to the new political status of Euscal Autonomy member. He has fifteen folios, and, by an axis of euscal State, the way of creating the "Euscal State" is given sixteen lines...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u10	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u11	I've been lying to myself. EH Collect says, "We're doing the act of our own state," and that's that. That's it. It does not say how, with which, or with what means, it does not say. It explains your plan. Is it not this other thing that's happening to us, i.e., you and I'll say it later? "I don't know. So, it's time for work, so we think that we have to start the job of power.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u13	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun where you're going. Mr. Lehendakari, Mr. Councillors, good morning to you all. With declared will of brevity (to see if I am able to do so) under this rostrum, Mrs Iriarte. And I say briefly not because the debate is not interesting, it is interesting, but because it gives the feeling at the end that one attends a debate raised from nationalists to nationalists, from Bildu's approaches to measuring oneself with the PNV, to who is more nationalist or who is able to further strain the political situation in Euskadi. That feeling gives you listening, Mrs. Iriarte, and listening with interest, as always, to Mr. Egibar. But in the end this is a debate raised by nationalist for nationalists, to discuss and see who is more nationalist. And this in the end may be interesting for you and for a particular parish, but with all due respect I say to you that we believe that this is neither upbuilding nor useful, nor for Euskadi, nor for the Basques as a whole. I will reveal the incognito of what we are going to do with your motion, Mrs Iriarte, announcing it since we are going to vote against it. We will vote against, first, because we do not share certain subjective epithets that are contemplated in your motion. This "meekness," accusing the Constitutional Court of pettyness... By the way, a subjective epithet to which Mr Egibar has enthusiastically joined. But it seems to us that they are forms, attitudes and ways of expressing political wills that do not correspond to the present times – and this is a terminology that you like very much – and, of course, that do not bring anything positive and upbuilding. And also because we believe that the text of the motion says one thing, but then the will to approach the debate is another; legitimate – and I have told you that many times – but you have come here to speak of more nationalism, more independence and more sovereignty. And this does not correspond to what you said. Because it is true that in your text, Mrs Iriarte, they talk a lot about the Statute of Autonomy, about the defense of the Statute of Autonomy, something curious (welcome to that debate and to that position of defense of the Statute of Autonomy). The pity is that they have not done so much longer, that we would have saved, without a doubt (I say, their political tradition or their political environment, if they had joined the defense of the Statute of Autonomy years ago)..., we would have saved, without a doubt, a lot of confrontation and also, without a doubt, a lot of suffering. And this debate about the past, which Mr Egibar particularly likes, comes to us usually to make a demonstration of knowledge of recent history, because, well, some can also be edifying, but it is, believe me, for us, among other things, extraordinarily boring and unhelpful. It's not very good for us. I understand, Mr Egibar, that you very much like to do pedagogy with the left abertzale, and now you can add to your pedagogical will, but what does this whole debate bring us? Where's he taking us? In the end – and I understand that what I'm going to tell you won't like it – the important thing is not to try to erase the presence of an institution in a territory, in our opinion. The important thing is not to erase any vestige of what the General Administration of the State and shared competences, or shared management in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, try to erase it to defend and support a certain political position. What is really important is what service and how we provide it to the citizen, what tools we provide to improve the quality of life of people or that people can develop a project of life and economic, family, social development, also of the territory, optimal, and that also allows us to be competitive in an increasingly complicated world and in an increasingly difficult world. That is the vocation with which the People's Party attends such debates. We want to think about the future, we want to think about equipping ourselves with the best tools to face that future, and to compete, as I say to you, in a world that is transformed, in a reality that is transformed. Because, listen, there is a permanent transfer of powers and sovereignty from the traditional states, for example from the member states of the European Union, to the common institutions of the European Union. Do you see political leaders from other states of the European Union complaining about competitive emptying? No! No! There is a willingness to share and cooperate, to cooperate with other countries, to cooperate with the institutions of the European Community, in order to provide better service to citizens. There is a permanent assignment not only of competences, but of the sovereignty of the member states. And here our debate is small, not parallel. It is contrary to what is happening in Europe. Here the complaint permanently is "Hey, I don't handle this and I want to manage it. I have no competence over this and I want to have them", rather than making an assessment of public policies, of the competences we have at our disposal. Because, listen, if we lived in a happy archadia, in which our main problem was that we do not have the competence of prisons, and that the competence of prisons depended on the economic and social development of Euskadi, well, then it could be a reasonable debate. But look, look, we have a public television station, on which we have absolute competence, that there is a widespread conviction that it does not work, and now we have created a paper for its improvement, for its modernisation and for making it viable. We have fiscal debates in which the Basque Government itself, Mr Councillor, does not agree with the outside parliaments on tax matters. We have the highest taxes in all of Spain, and it turns out that you are unable to agree here, Mr. Counsellor. I understand that he laughs, and it will be a bitter laugh, but they do not agree between the outlaws and the Basque Government. But we need to talk about other things, about other competences. We have a major problem in the field of education. We do not meet the ratios, and, of course, we are not able to express the important potential we have to train our boys and girls. And it turns out that not only do our internal assessments have to tell us, but we also come from outside to say that we're not doing quite well, that we need to improve. But the debate... the debate is another. We have the active employment policies (which, by the way, especially the members of the Socialist Party and the members of the Socialist Party will remember that transfer of Mr Zapatero and the Basque Government, and you by means), it turns out that we already have the competence in the active employment policies, Mr de Podemos (Lanbide), and I believe that there is a general conviction that Lanbide does not work for what was created. But no: we have to talk about other competences. It turns out that, listen, we have an integral police, such as the Ertzaintza, in which there are permanent conflicts (well, they manifest here every week, and all the parliamentarians in this House see it), but the problem is another one. The problem is not the labour conflicts in the Ertzaintza, the problem is not the service that is able to provide the Ertzaintza (by the way, with magnificent professionals), but it is necessary to divert attention to other points. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the nationalists have managed to focus the debate on competition, when what we must do is to focus the debate on the incompetence of management, on those issues that we need to improve, on which we do have the capacity to act, and a truly remarkable capacity. We want to focus the debate on how we provide better service to citizens. No, we are not against exploring the possibilities of the Statute of Autonomy. Hey, let's take part in the lecture created for that purpose! We will participate, and also with real interest and determination, in the presentation created to analyze the Statute of Autonomy and see the possibilities for improvement. We're willing to explore them! But the debate, as you are proposing, is not a debate to explore the potentialities of the Statute of Autonomy. The debate, as you constantly put it, is in other words. The playing field, the rules you set for the debate, is not that. It's another one. It's that of the nationalists, for the nationalists. That it will be a very legitimate debate and a very legitimate approach, I will not question it, but it is not a debate in which others have to enter with their rules of play. We don't have to get into the debates about whether we're homogenized, that if the problem is that we have the same skills as I don't know who, that if... Look, the Basque Autonomous Community has been able, thanks to the Statute of Autonomy... First, we have the highest competences of the European Union; of any region, of any community, of any entity. The highest in the European Community, and I dare say about the world. It is. It is. And, of course, experts who participated and appeared in the presentation of the last legislature attested to it. We have the highest level of competition in the West, ladies and gentlemen. So, roundly. No, I know, Mr Egibar, you are not interested in talking about the competences we have, you are interested in talking about other things, but this is an objective reality. Of course, but you raise it not in terms of how we do to improve what we have and how we do to be more effective, and how we do so that Basque citizens have more opportunities, but "Hey, do you want to homogenize us with I don't know who? Hey, are we different enough? Is our difference sufficiently recognized? Look, is the new status – this thing you haven't filled yet with content; it will come, I suppose – the problem?". What do we do with the skills we have at our disposal? What service do we render to the citizen? Is this debate today upbuilding for people? Is the real problem with Basque society really whether we have...? Is it true, indeed, that you honestly believe that the problem for the economic and social development of Euskadi is that we do not have the competence of prisons? Are they really saying that? Are those the sights and ambition you have in the country? Are these the members with whom they present themselves in this House to take stock of management and to report to the citizens? We don't share it. We don't share it. Mr Lehendakari, we are ready to explore the potentialities of the Statute; we are ready to work together to improve the conditions of the Basques. What we are not willing to do, and we have already announced, Mr Egibar, is to accept once again the playing field and the rules that you permanently set, because they are not good for Euskadi and, of course, they are not upbuilding for political debate and for the times that run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Madam Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u15	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Good morning again, all of you. The part of this parliament is not only to make new laws. This, we believe, is very important, and we should place it on that axis of self-generonity, on the legislative part of this Parliament. But the Parliament has another paper, and we think that's important too, and it's a government control and a political initiative to encourage the government. And it has been a political initiative to encourage the motive of our motion. It does not appear to us that, when we are to begin our work in power, we may send them round a new state, as well as certain rights which are contained and enumerated in the government mind, as Mr. Pastor said, that there are several matters, and that are also known to have some of your defaults. It appears to us, also, that this legislature ought to know in this sense what the Government has, and, as this legislature ought to know, the citizens ought to know it also in the name of transparency. I don't know who said it was Vatican or Cremlin, that when a subject really didn't interest them, it made a pomp and that things could be left to rot. It's not that, I know, he didn't intend to, and he didn't intend to, but it seems to us that there are things we don't have to throw up all the time in that sack because we can work first. And in this sense, it seems to us, for instance, that Mrs. San José gave us some clues last week. He said he saw the transfer of the economic economic regime of Social Security inside this legislation. So he gave us a clue: within this legislation. It's about going a little further out of the law, but that means he's got a plan, he's got something on his mind. As he told us that he didn't think it necessary or that the debate was not at this moment about a public pension system. We see, then, that in certain departments there is at least some intention, that there are some plans which we do not know how they will be executed, but that there are. That gives us a clue. We think that these clues may also be in other respects, and if these tracks are brought to this Parliament, if we anticipate a few of the time, and if this government tells us what they are going to do, we will make a preliminary. Otherwise, we'll be back in power. And I, Monsieur Egibar, think I have explained: I know all these reports. But we've been around these reports all these years. We know the words; I think that if we have time to go to action, we'll do it if you know that it'll be like that when you're working on it, but we think there are things that can be done. Besides, why else are they in this state of government? They'll be in this government record, because this government has begun to run other things, the strategics, the budgets, and brings them to this parliament. Therefore it is our intention and our judgment. Mr Martínnez, "alforja." I read that he's called a loafer, a sack, and something else about it. For this journey, we, all the alphokes we need. In fact, I think you're a little bored or bored with these things and the things you prefer are social matters, but the discussion of social matters is entirely connected with what we're talking about here, it's completely united. In that sense, if we don't have instruments to get ahead of these social issues, it won't be easy for this people to continue. We want to work as a country to give our children a future, and the future seems to us to be in our power, and we think it's the future we're going to have to cultivate. The Spanish nationalists already know that they are not going to defend this, but what we want to tell them is that we are working to improve the future of this country. You mark other rules that are also very legitimate, but you will not stop us from taking steps forward so that this country can have a better future than it has, which is to a large extent because you do not let us move forward in certain ways, because you put us on edge and because you actually have us homogenized, because that has been one of the formulas for us to continue discussing and turning around the same subject without being able to move forward. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u17	Mr. Egibar, don't be angry. I am grateful to you for the history class, but if you have heard me in the previous intervention, we do not deny the leaks which the State has suffered, we do not deny the laws which the Government has made to calm or retard the State. We understand this well, and we know that there has been some sort of contest in hand, but we believe that this context has been taken advantage of more than once to bring forward the interests of the party in the government, and to obtain jurisdictions, by making a kind of political change in this way: "You've got to check some things out," "You'll give me a hand." So what happened? That a mechanism has been normalized, that has been set up as a mechanism of carrying our state out. And what would have been unusual: To place and say how we shall receive all our jurisdictions, which are ours, and have the right to be ours, by degrees, in what period we shall proceed. But no: it has always been with this political change. But it's also true that we don't come here to make a present of what happened before. And that's why we've made a request to the central government that he agrees publicly to deliver our jurisdictions, and to the Eucommy, to bring that loyalty to work. And that's it, we're not getting in that anymore. And, Madam I agree, I am tired of discussions, but not because the matter is not interesting, and because I think the subject is not to be treated of this legislature, but because we have bargains on some subjects. As I said before, there's an agreement in handing in 1994, and there's an agreement on the state's respect, which in 2003 repeats, and in January we came to make a settlement. I understand whether fear will not happen during the law, just to take out a report and not carry anything further. Well, then, let's put ourselves in a position to work in power, and in the first meetings we can say what mechanism we want, what agreements we want and what results we want. For this we agree, because we believe that a new state is to be derived from this power, which in this law protects our social rights, and protects our right of decision, which serves to develop our people. And that's very important to us. Let us therefore proceed to this form of perfection, to that space which has been agreed among us; and here let us conclude, as soon as possible, what occasions and contrivances we would have, to draw and carry out and carry away such things as we desire. And also, let us continue in the administration of Government, whether or not the mechanism of the mechanism will be used to bring them back. These are the two contrivances which we have set before us to-day: I want you to keep working in power, and ask the central government, and then in my speech, to continue working on the development of the Eusk0s. I have no more to say. But, as it's 23 today, my question is, where's the law calendar? We said he'd be there by 23... I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u19	Well, I, after hearing all the speeches, insist on my idea that I do not understand (I do not understand, Mrs Iriarte) the reason why you have tabled this motion. I want to tell you one thing: it is not mandatory, because an inquiry is presented, then a motion is presented. In case you thought you had to do it like this, right? It has nothing to do with it. But in any case, you have said here one thing that has attracted much attention to me. "There are no shared sovereignty. Sovereignties are not shared," you said. I have become ojiplatic, because here, in Euskadi, in our country, this country, this government, shares sovereignty with the outside parliaments, with the historical territories, shares sovereignty; and, if you will hurry me, with the municipalities. And we share with the rest of Spain, and we share with the rest of the world, in everything that applies international law. But what a world this would be, if we played in a league of exclusive sovereignty! What did we get, to isolationism, to what Mr Trump recommends, to which, by the way, you very much congratulated when he won the elections? Well, man, I don't think that's the model we'd have to apply here. I believe that the amendment we have reached with the Basque Nationalist Party and Podemos, which is a very common sense amendment (if you want, then, of "two plus two plus four")... What we have done is to reiterate the commitments we have already made in this Chamber, in this Parliament, a month ago, to constitute the self-government speech, and which you basically shared because you did not vote against it. And they come to reiterate. And to me there are things from that text that also sound very good to me. What Mr Martínez stressed here is the social articulation of Euskadi, the extension of rights, the internal articulation of the country, man, I like so much, among other things, because it is much, much, much, much, much, much like that recorded in this House by the Socialist Party a year ago. So it's good that we have important points in common. So, let's get to the point, which is to get the papers started as soon as possible. And that is the forum, Mrs Iriarte – or one who attends the committee on the part of your group – to raise all those matters related to Basque self-government, both inwards and outwards. And there we will all make the effort (we have the commitment and commitment to do so) to try to reach the broadest possible agreement. The rest, then, are speeches that I understand that you have to make, which seems to you to be important to highlight political profile, but which have little to do with what we agreed a month ago in this Parliament, which is to transfer these debates, with all that it entails, to the presentation of self-government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u21	The debate of the new political state-states assumed that in 2003, it started at the Autogoberon Board, and even this time, the will to change the system we now have. Further, it has a very clear and simple meaning: To fear [is] to show why they have not respected the law. They don't respect him, and they don't mean to respect him. And some one may say: "If they have not hitherto respected him, what security can you have of the law to know that they will respect him? "I don't know. Well, the context is different, political actors are different. Each period has had its own initiative here, and the State now established has had its benefits, and has served to make a road, but it is evident that the State has decided not to comply with it. If, on the other hand, this social instability were in our power, the hypothesis which we now have in our power would be doubled by that alone. Double it. And a little more of your jurisdiction. But we're looking for a new political state, and in defence of it, even... It's not history, it's evidence. Since the state was approved and fun, the opening place was the president, 1980. When it was completed in the year, there was another victim in that defence of the Common-wealth, I remember (and then we used to walk in the streets in the defence of the Common-wealth), called Ramon the Begoña, a worker: the parliament of that time was taken by the workmen of Nervacero, and in a subsequent march he kicked and died. And he defended the institutions and the state. And the time has changed, we've gone on, but if we're going to look for this new political status, there's need for concretions apart from intention. And the Jeltarian Eunct Party passed the fun that makes white folios long ago. The white fossil creates more fun in politics, and, I think, some of them more than the others. The White Folio means that it must be put into detail what every one wants, and if there is any possibility of speaking. Why the concept of Eusucation for its career and its beginning is clear when it says: "Take the upper hand," "And little Ta will be able to beat the little one" (the little one may beat it) / "by knowing it." The intention here seems to be pure by intention and knowledge. We say: "What do we want? "I don't know. This is the plan: What do we want? Let each of you write it down, so as to understand it, and let society know what is on each side. Is it real? If it is true, it must be measured by the protection of society; otherwise, it may be a political exercise. You need society to seek out this new political state. How? By the hands of the people. And I think we have an extraordinary opportunity. For the first time in the last decades, only from political and democratic paths, defending political ideas and projects, we have a chance of making a treaty between them all. And this is also an extraordinary advantage in comparing it with the former times. Even so, in the defense of the State, why we only stopped in the defence of the State for many moments. And, we must confess, we have not the tension to defend our former defence in the streets of the State. We don't have it as a village. I say it often too: We are on the side of the right and independence of deciding, and we do not abolish the state which is being defended? Something's wrong. I don't know whether they are plans, decisions, strategy, but we have to talk about it all. Just a minute, I'm going to finish. I would like to say to the Popular Party, to finish it, why he talks with such grace, saying: "Look in Europe, the statues are releasing their jurisdictions." There'd be a better government upstairs, wouldn't it? "The States are releasing their jurisdictions." If he who thinks thus, up to the top of the road, be freed, why should he be so eager to free himself from the bottom or not? The same front. If all these rights go up, the new political subjects, which are produced (in the case of Catana and Euscadin), will free those rights, which must be shared. Where's the problem? There's a problem with accepting new political subjects. And that requires more respect, respect among nations, among nations. You can't impose a marriage. One must confess one's life, make an agreement with respect. If not, it would be an arrangement. And we're not prepared to protect that road.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u23	The truly surprising fact in the reply, Mr Egibar, has been what you have said about social security. A Social Security that has been in deficit in Euskadi for ten years, with a deficit of 2 billion euros a year, and that fortunately the pensioners of Euskadi, as logically everyone knows, do not charge their pensions only for an intergenerational solidarity, but for an interterritorial solidarity as well. And you in this account often forget this: to acknowledge, moreover with satisfaction, that fortunately the Basque pensioners receive their pensions thanks to the solidarity of the Spanish people as a whole. This is an objective reality, which I do not know why you strive to deny objective data permanently, Mr Egibar. And, of course, this is one of the problems we have to agree on. It's just that if you don't even recognize the objective data... - No, no, no, And this is the fruit of collaboration, and this is the fruit of living together, of seeking what unites us rather than being permanently seeking what separates us. Because you wonder, I suppose rhetorically, how we in Europe might feel about the transfer of sovereignty and not about the downside. No, don't confuse yourself! That this problem is not who has the competition or not, but how we manage it better! And there was a certain moment when there was a political pact throughout the European Union, a political pact by which it was decided which way to go. There are many precedents, no doubt, but in recent decades these pacts have been materializing from the transfer of sovereignty, but it is not a transfer of sovereignty from pain, but from the conviction that together we are doing better, Mr Egibar. This is the political approach of the whole of Europe, and it is the political approach that we want in Spain and that we also want in Euskadi: looking at how to be better, how to offer better service to citizens, how to generate more opportunities for people, how to generate more opportunities for the economic and social development of a territory as well. This is the debate that is taking place in Europe, it is the debate that we believe is the substantial, the really important one here, and it is the debate that you are constantly striving to refute. It is also an obviously legitimate political position, but it is a political position – understand what I want to say to you – in our opinion, it really lapses, or it certainly does not go with time. And you said, "Of course, the law has not been respected by the government" – from governments, I understand, successively – "from Spain". Well, that's not true, Mr. Egibar. The discrepancy that leads to an institution, to a government, for example the Basque Government could be, to resort to an outside rule, for example (which has happened), is not a lack of respect for outside competences. It is a shock or a way of interpreting in a different way, for example, the law. And you don't go out to this rostrum, or the deputy general on duty goes out saying, "Hey, there's a drain of powers from the outlaws, there's a lack of respect from the Basque government." No, no, There is a difference of opinion between the constitutional organs, the organs... to begin with, a mixed commission, as you well know, and then, when no agreement is reached, a jurisdictional body. As happens to citizens, when they do not have an agreement, they seek a judge who resolves their differences. This is disrespectful to you. So, the lack of respect since when does it come, or since when is it? After Arzalluz praises Aznar by saying that he is a stateman, who has never advanced as with Aznar? Is it from there? Is it from the indefinite renewal of the economic concert? Is it from the transfer, for example, in the last legislature, of numerous indirect taxes? When is it? When do you rate this lack of respect for the law? That doesn't work that way, Mr. Egibar! That this isn't "or you do what I want or I take the ball because it's mine"! This doesn't work that way! That this is agreement, collaboration... This is political, this is understanding, looking for what unites us, listen, see how we do – as I said before – to be better, stronger, how we focus on synergies, how we try to solve problems among all... Not like we do to stick our fingers in each other's eyes to maintain a determined political position. And it was over, I think... , I thought you understood some bitterness when you said "There is no tension on the street in the defense of the Statute of Autonomy". Of course, it's just that people are tense about other things, you know? People on the street are tense because they want to get to the end of the month. People are tense because they want a stable job and they also want to develop a life project. People are tense because they want public resources to be spent and well exercised. People want their taxes..., listen, to be able to pay the least possible taxes, to be able to pay the same taxes they pay in Burgos, for example, counselor (pay less taxes, which is what happens in the rest of Spain), no more. This is what people like: to have an education, to know that their children are educated and that they can have a competitive level and that they also leave that well-trained public school; that they are given, for example, knowledge of English... People are tense about those things, it's true. I regret your bitterness, because people are not tense with the Statute of Autonomy, of course! People are not tense about who has more or less skills, of course! People want them to exercise well, regardless of who exercises the skills. And people want responsible politicians and sensible governments. And people want us in this Parliament once and for all to engage in discussion and debate about what really matters to them and affects them. And through this line we're not going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Since the discussion has ended, we shall first vote on Madame Ruiz de Gauna's original motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 57; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u25	So, not allowed original text. Next, the Basque Socialists, together with Podemos and Euzicobertians, shall vote for the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u26	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the departure of poverty. Discipline and final resolution. The number on which the proposal has been made: Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u27	, ladies: Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. "It doesn't explode like bombs or sound like knives. The hunger that kills silently kills the silent, the condemned to silence and oblivion. We know everything about them. The experts, the pobrologists, study them and offer us updated data How many the poor are, what they work on when they work, what they don't eat, how much they don't eat, how much they don't weigh, how much they don't measure, what they don't think, what they don't vote, what they don't believe in. All we need to know is why the poor are poor. (...) Is it that the poor are poor because their hunger gives us food and their nakedness saw us? What would be of us without them?". I wanted to start this intervention by sharing a small part of a Galeano poem, and I wanted to do so because I think that, although it is hard as the lives of many people, it will help us to empathize with urgency, with the need to put the fight against poverty in the foreground, and to do so in a coherent way. Because in a society that wants to move forward, it is urgent to do so without leaving anyone behind, because we need to see that the reality of poverty has changed. These changes, and the fact that there is no inclusion plan today, make it essential, as the Basque Parliament, to point out to the government that something should be done with this as a priority. Because our institutions have a problem of coherence if they promote the recognition of human rights but do not make the corresponding effort to ensure the proper functioning of the services responsible for making those rights effective. But, and above all, because a serious fight against poverty involves seeing poverty beyond severe social exclusion. Because it doesn't just affect a residual part of our society. Even if some do not want to or cannot see it, poverty has become a gap in our families and in our neighbourhoods. The statistics depict the elderly woman with a precarious pension who cannot put the heating up whenever she needs it; the woman who takes care of her children herself; the unemployed young people who cannot emancipate and continue to depend on their mothers and fathers; the young woman with a part-time part-time job sharing the floor; the children whose parents are of foreign origin; and the man who every night seeks a safe place to sleep on the street. Poverty affects many people, all of them subject to the law. For all of them we work, for all of them we bring this debate here today. Because, as I said, poverty, a multidimensional phenomenon, affects many people differently, and also in Euskadi affects part of their citizenship. I'm going to give some data that I know are fundamental to becoming aware of the extent and intensity of poverty in the Basque oasis. Euskadi has an index of inequality that continues to grow (a four-point increase between 2008 and 2014). There are 70,000 Basque households that this year will not be able to put the heating (3,700 more than last year). There are more than 1,500 people in a situation of sinogarism. There are more than 18% of the population who cannot cope with unforeseen expenditure, and almost another 18% at risk of exclusion. There are 18%, there are many people; 15,000 of them are at risk only in 2015. There are more than 81,000 people who survive with incomes below 332 euros per month, more than 100,000 people in severe poverty. This data doesn't make them up for me. These are data from the 2014 Survey of Poverty and Social Inequality of the Basque Government. The one from 2016 we'll see what's telling us. In addition, last week Save the Children warns us of an increase in inequality between middle- and low-income boys and girls in Euskadi: 8.3 points in relative poverty, 5 points in severe poverty, and doubles in the case of single-maritime families, and 14 more points in families of foreign origin. In Euskadi there are also 9 per cent of children living in severe poverty, four out of ten of whom are foreign. There are also 34.5 per cent of pensioners, 183,000 who have income below the poverty line. The situation of the 34,500 who receive pensions of less than EUR 400 per month is particularly serious: even if they are complemented by GIR, they still have to support their families to move forward, in a protection system that, as far as we say, does not reach the whole world. It's data to take this from us, not just from the government to the opposition. They are the reason to look and recognize that more and different policies and tools are needed, tools that in many cases are not working. The plans, the strategies, in the opinion of this parliamentary group, are tools that help us look far away to walk with a more certain step. The more eyes they look at, the more horizons and more realities we will be able to embrace. We know the current inclusion plan, and we know it hasn't worked, so it is in the mid-term evaluation that was made of it in 2014. In the same year, and in the light of the evaluation, this Parliament agreed to ask the Basque Government – and I quote textually – "to present before the end of the first quarter of 2015 a new plan and strategy for active social inclusion developed in collaboration with social partners and trade unions, in order to complement the Basque system of protection". Today we bring this initiative to the House because that agreement was not complied with by the Government. We bring this initiative because the III Basque Inclusion Plan has remained in force, as if this evaluation had not called it into question or as if this agreement had never existed. But even more serious is that former Councillor Ángel Toña, in response to a parliamentary question in July 2015, acknowledged that the development of the plan and its evaluation are a legal imperative for this government. It's a shame that the counselor doesn't seem to be interested, but well, add up and go on. The Basque Social Inclusion Council should assess Parliament's proposal on this plan, and by July 2015 the process had not yet been opened. They're on it now, it's time. I think it's time. That is why we are presenting this initiative today. We are fully aware that the Basque Inclusion Plan, in an implicit or explicit way, envisages the development of the comprehensive strategy against poverty, and we understand that, as an element of control for the Government that we are in this Parliament, it is up to us to give this Parliament an earful. We understand that with regard to addressing the Plan of Inclusion and the anti-poverty strategy, this Government has expressed a clear disillusionment. But some of us have not come to this Parliament to give earshots. We assume the responsibility of giving impetus to these issues and putting poverty at the centre of the political agenda, and that is enough. We want to put poverty at the centre, but above all people who are having a bad time. We understand the proposed strategy as part of this inclusion plan, a plan that is a road map, which sets out objectives that must, with its steps, seek the eradication of this scourge, the eradication of poverty. A scourge not only because of the situation of the people who suffer it, but because Basque society has the resources not to tolerate this reality of injustice being perpetuated. It's complex, yes, but it's not impossible. As you have already heard me say here on more than one occasion, it is a matter of political will. And we know, ladies and gentlemen, that although we're new legislation, we've been working in politics for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are young in this house, but not in the streets, nor in social and political movements. We may not have your legal knowledge or the baggage of having been in this Parliament for a long time, I am sure that we are missing things from this debate, and they will already remind us of them, but we are also clear that this happens because we are normal people. We come from the street, from working 50 hours a week, from accompanying people who sleep on the street, from firing our friends at the airport because they no longer have hope... We have just tried to stop evictions, to suffer job insecurity, to be self-sufficient fakes, not to arrive at the end of the month... That's why we know that there are things that don't work well, and we know that for many people it's urgent. And these people don't always have the same ability to organize, to fight or to fight dialectically. We know that poverty that enters more and more homes every day is urgent to address it. And it is urgent to do so, to get to work from the agreement, from the construction, and with that goal as a priority. It is not possible that the inclusion plan, being a priority for the department, which has already compromised its submission, once expired does not have a new proposal. What do people do in the meantime? We, the eye, recognize the ability of Euskadi – although not only his government, but to a large extent his people and his struggles – to alleviate the most serious consequences of poverty, and that is why we propose more. We believe that it is essential to bet on a comprehensive strategy that seeks eradication as the ultimate goal, and this is our will. In Elkarrekin We can see clearly that there is a possibility, as well as groups of experts who suggest that eradicating poverty in Euskadi is possible. I ask you directly: Is there a will? Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have the will to be brave and get to work? Let's do it, count on us. I know that you are going to tell us today that we are above the state in terms of poverty, but I hope that does not lead you to conform, because people who today live at risk of social exclusion are going through it badly and do not conform. They need our solidarity, but they also have the right to have it. Because, although we repeat as a mantra that employment is the best social policy, job creation itself does not have to be a tool to alleviate poverty or shorten gaps in inequality in a society. The III Exclusion Plan had so far raised this issue, and, as its own assessments show, it has been clearly insufficient. It has been decades since it has been found and proven that job creation or economic growth in isolation, and without other policies and measures, need not be synonymous with or guarantee the prosperity or well-being of the entire population. In this regard, I understand that we are taking a step forward today, and I would therefore like to thank all the groups for their generosity and for the ability to reach an agreement such as the one we have shown here today. In this regard, we propose that the Government be urged to design a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy within the inclusion plan, which is true that the department committed itself to presenting but setting a specific ten-month deadline. No further delays, delays or waits are acceptable, because this should have started already in the first quarter of 2015, but above all because people should not assume the consequences of something that is not in their hands, ladies and gentlemen, it is in ours. In addition, this strategy will have to be based on the content of the mid-term evaluation of the plan that was carried out in 2014 and that asked to remake the diagnosis according to the proposed indicators in order to be able to identify the weaknesses and strengths of the anti-exclusion devices; this we understand that in 2017 it should be more than done, debated, clarified and corrected. Our compromise amendment also calls on the Government to carry out these actions by ensuring the inter-institutional coordination mechanisms, without which this work would be impossible, as well as the participation of social institutions and actors. Even with the participation of the people affected by poverty themselves, because their voice is important and because it is proposed by other voices, such as the Ekain network in its proposals to improve social inclusion in Euskadi already since 2014. Finally, but of course not in a place of minor importance, considering the gender perspective. Because we know for a fact that poverty has a woman's face and therefore we must think about ourselves and count on ourselves to design policies, plans, strategies and mechanisms that allow for a viable inclusion for all people. To bet on a system of strong inclusion adapted to the needs of the Basque population is to bet on having the necessary tools, is to understand poverty as a global and multidimensional phenomenon, and we extend our hand to work in this Parliament and with this Government from the place we occupy, since we understand that all looks are enriching and necessary. But we also warn that we will be here to insist, if there are agreements that remain only on paper. We know that it is necessary and urgent to address this strategy through a consensus that allows us to work and to bet on giving a decent place in this society to all people, including the most vulnerable. Today we're taking a step. I think it's time to congratulate us on that. That's why we're going because it's possible, because it's fair, and it's inevitable, as long as we're an advanced society, no one's going out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. It is true, Mrs. Guanche, that today we take a very important step. And, besides, I would remark that we take this step in this arrangement which we came to-day. I think this may be remarked, and we hope that this government fulfils this agreement, and also obeys the precise periods which are marked in this agreement. Particularly, we have a specific means of meeting poverty in our Autonomy Er-American, a special plan that was tested by the Basque Mnitch and here discussed, and is the Inclusium Plan active. The third plan is already in effect. I say he's strong, because it's true that his deadline's over, but it's a long time since Eusk0's new plan hasn't been sent to the Congressman yet. We have a specific tool to deal with situations of poverty, people in situations of exclusion, at risk of social exclusion, which are active inclusion plans, which are a preview of the Law itself for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion. The III Active Inclusion Plan 2013-2016 is currently in force (well, it has ended) and it is true that this Government has not been diligent, and I believe that it is an issue that needs to be highlighted today in this plenary (well, this Government..., rather, the previous one), because it also fails to meet the deadlines set out in specific parliamentary mandates and in motions for resolutions adopted in this House on multiple debates we have had in this area. Man, I did want to specify to you, Mrs Guanche, that, like us – well, at least the People's Group, and I imagine that so the rest of the people who belong to the rest of the groups – we also consider ourselves to be people stuck to the reality of the street, because when these debates have been held in this House we have brought numerous motions for resolutions. And I would also like to stress here that many of them have come out by agreement, including the concrete motion for a resolution in the monographic debate, which was supplemented, as you very well pointed out, on 7 November 2014, for the executive to draw up a new active inclusion plan. Active inclusion plans identify a number of strategies, objectives, concrete lines of action, and, if we read the III Active Inclusion Plan, one of the objectives, or, rather, one of the specific strategic lines identified is effective inclusion. Effective inclusion is referred to as one of the strategic objectives to be met by the III Social Inclusion Plan. It is specifically mentioned that "employable persons at risk of poverty and social exclusion do not receive employment services with the intensity or specificity necessary for their employment, perpetuating themselves in situations of vulnerability". I think this goal, and I'm precisely marking the strategy or purpose of the active planet, hasn't been filled with the former government. And in this furrow, we must say, he has failed, because the results we hoped for were not accomplished by the fairs that have been given and offered. And I would add here the non-compliance with the objectives themselves, or the strategic lines themselves, with all the action measures implemented in relation to the III Active Inclusion Plan. We do not say this: the mid-term evaluation of the Active Inclusion Plan itself speaks clearly in its recommendations, apart from the specific mandate that the new plan and strategy for active social inclusion be referred to in the first quarter of 2015, it speaks clearly of redoing the diagnosis on which the Active Social Inclusion Plan is based. It also talks about identifying weaknesses and strengths; it also talks about reformulating, based on that diagnosis to be made again, the strategic and general objectives of the plan, and it also talks about establishing concrete actions in relation to that new diagnosis and that reformulation of objectives. It is also mentioned that the possibility of establishing new services, programmes and actions by public administrations to achieve the stated objectives should also be considered. In other words, the mid-term evaluation itself also points to a number of alerts, warning signs regarding the failure to meet the objectives set out in that Active Inclusion Plan. As I said, this is not the first time, because we are not extraterrestrials, Mrs Guanche, and, as we are politicians (of course, those of the People's Party) stuck to the reality of the street, and I believe that we have also found this at the beginning of this parliamentary term by bringing this debate, to this House, to discuss concrete initiatives that have to do with the real problems of the citizens, such as a comprehensive reform of Lanbide, in the face of the failure to fulfil Lanbide's objectives, in the face of Lanbide's ineffectiveness in the socio-laboral or labour integration of the people who are perceiving the GIR; as we have also brought to this House a concrete initiative to draw up, in collaboration with other institutions, an inter-institutional employment plan, which was also approved in this House... I believe it is important to take into account the assessments carried out, to take into account... hemen, Ganbara honetan sinatutako akordioak, and in this regard I would also like to point out the specific agreement reached on a special plan against poverty and social exclusion in 2013, and the monographic debate to tackle poverty, with concrete motions for resolutions. Finally, Madam President, and before referring to the agreement in which, without doubt, the forecasts contained in our amendment, that of the People's Party, on this subject, have also been incorporated, we do believe that employment should be the highest priority of the executive, and that employment is the best social policy. And that is why these motions for resolutions – which some of them were adopted, an important part of these proposals were adopted – mentioned in one of them as favouring the socio-occupational integration of people at risk of social exclusion, which is also one of the issues that have been incorporated into this compromise amendment. We were talking about specific measures for groups with special difficulties. We were talking about providing job seekers with integrated and adapted assistance. We were talking about improving Lanbide's effectiveness and efficiency, of remedying its shortcomings. We were talking about the implementation of custom insertion itineraries (I think this is one of the outstanding subjects; if in the end we talk about activation for the employment of the preceptors of the GIR, I think we need to deepen and we need to reinforce everything related to these custom insertion itineraries). We were talking about increasing intermediation ratios. We were talking about special plans for poverty and social exclusion in line with the agreement already adopted in this House. Above all, we were also talking about designing measures, because I also think it is important not to highlight ex post facto measures here, but also to be able to act from the different public authorities from a previous point of view and to design measures aimed at the prevention, detection and care of situations of risk and social exclusion. These, as I say, are the proposals we put forward in the previous monographic plenary, and some of them were included in the motions for resolutions finally adopted. I will make a reference to the agreement reached today by all the groups represented in this House – and I conclude, Madam President – in which we place duties on the Government. We give the Government proper obligations in this arrangement, and in this case we hope to fulfil all these ends and all those duties which are laid down. We ask you to design a comprehensive anti-poverty strategy contained in the 2017-2021 Inclusion Plan, which, as I have pointed out, is pending; compliance with the agreements of the November 2014 Full Monograph. We also call for mid-term and final evaluations to be incorporated into this plan, an issue on which we have placed a great deal of emphasis on this negotiation. Finally, as I said earlier, reference has also been made to the specific provision or mandate for measures to promote the employment of persons at risk or in a situation of social exclusion. Horrexegatik pentsatzen dugu pauso bateten dugula gaur akordio honekin, aho batez sinatutako akordio honekin. Baina ez da pauso bakarra, Guanche anderea. Pauso berri bat da, baina espera dugu kasu honetan Gobernu honek ezarritak helburu guzti horiek betetzea éta eztabaida hauek bukatzea... or at least not to hold further discussions on this issue so that the Government is diligent in fulfilling parliamentary mandates, and in any case if we hold discussions on this issue, it is also to assess specifically what the Government has done on active inclusion plans and on all mandates on these issues in this House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u31	The head of the legislative table. Partners. All of us, because, actually, like other people, although it's like 20% down there, it's so important to you, the leader's chair is empty. At times like that Mrs Garrido hasn't mentioned it today, but when our things are coming, that's how it is. And it's time to discuss the strategy of poverty today, or at least the way to do it. And I've just come from Lleida to discuss inclusion and social innovation. I have had occasion to share my reflections on those who are engaged in this world, and I have observed, in general, that there are great agreements about certain elements in these days. On the one hand, we are standing in front of a moment which is really socially complicated, and which seems to be taking us out of the crisis that the situation of so many people here and there does not improve, and that here and there social differences rise and expand this social gap. And here and there, because here it is. And, on the other hand, that eternal prayers do not serve to answer what comes to us, or what is already above us. And that's what I'm sure you all agree here at least, and I'm sure I heard the chief physician of the Artola generouss. Lackless and poverty, social neglects, and traffic-prefeets increase in ours during the last few years, we have the appearance of impoverishing poverty, social differences rise and the poor are growing poorer and poorer. By placing a data on the table, according to the latest data given by the department, the rent of 10% of the Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzia has dropped at 134%. The active poverty is also remarkable, and I have repeated that here too the appearance of poor workers has come to us. And, following the subject's data, we have learned that 29,6% of the retired members of this member are poor people. Let the chief physician of St. Joses hear that this data is made up, and that 3%,7% of them suffer extreme poverty. And even last week, another important piece of data from Save the Childen. Tinixa had mentioned it before, and said that she lived under nine percent of the children who live in this clinic. And for me, a still more serious data will become poor when about 20% of all the years around, and that shows us the black future. Even the playback of poverty stays in ours. 385,000 people say that they are in poverty, others say that they are much more, and at least that Araba lives on the 17th border of the citizens of Buzkai and Gipuia, we know that he lives on the Limite. And social differences rise too. It seems that 2,6 points have gone up or up, that these states of difference and deviation have gone up, until 2008, by turning the falldown. And now that we're talking about data, I'd like to take advantage of asking when we're going to have some new data, because all this data, except those who come from the agents, is 2014. And a happy feeling that you're going to have to move a solid inclussion plan will need data, but that's what you're up to. So that's in interpelation mode to the chief physician. And I'll hear that the state of the Chinese is also normal, and that the state of the German race is far better in these matters than that of the Spanish State. And it is true, and I have often said that we have a strong income to support our incomes. And it is undeniable that in the intensity of these states of poverty and poverty, and in the diminution of social differences, this euscal system has produced a positive influence, and I should like to mention that too. But even if we conclude ourselves from those comparisons we make with the state, the data is data, and, besides, we are not permitted to satisfy ourselves with this state of ours. New situations, people with new phenomena and great difficulties, the responsibility and commitment of a society. And it's a laugh, because Mr. Urkullu said that this is going to make it down to 20%. And I have repeated to you that this people, for the next years, has placed us in one of its greatest challenges, and sometimes in others. And the answer to this challenge demands, no doubt, that the advance of the present strategy of preventing poverty and neglect, and, in general, a profound and shared reflection about the system of social protection, because the question of social differences is one of the greatest concerns of this society. And that's the way we're doing it. To-day, we agree with the means of making a strategy against poverty, with a broad consent; we have also agreed upon the disputes about RGI and Profession, and there are other disputes about it, which have been divided into vast discussions and operations. But the complexities of the state of poverty and social separation, and the models which have started to promote inclussion, have settled us on a stage which no one desires. There are different plans and positions, different priorities, and different factors which are not agreed on on this stage. We have clear, fat rules, plans, strategys, and other things, but we have very different things to do. There is no clear criteria on this stage for an entire strategy of overcoming poverty and retirement. Hence it often happens that actions are so, that they have too much of a middle practice and too much of constancy. In the presence of this situation, and in the absence of the strategy which we have against poverty, the necessity of changing strategy is clear, and we are every day brought to the desktop by the agents who work on this work. Even in the monographics made round poverty in 2014, it was obvious that this strategy was to be changed, and so was the third. Even during the evaluation report in the center of the Inclusion Plan. We need to create a common plane from agreement, which will put us all in the same direction. We must create a frame created from our eyes, which will give us a new glance from our engagements, and which, above all things, will place people and their rights in the midst of them. We must draw together a path which will enable us to repair all the cracks we can repair all the way through and through the entire protection system. And from this point of view I must admit that I am very pleased with this agreement which we are going to sign today. Count that we have been able to reach a large agreement on this subject, which is so important from our side of the group. And I'm also aware that every team has made a special effort to get to that agreement. But I'd like to put a note on the table. Our team will not allow this plan to be an idle job. We're not going to let this agreement be an agreement to make it work in the picture. It seems to us a very good and proper arrangement on the road mentioned, but we must continue closely. As has been said before, to the point of this monographicographic about poverty, this legislature agreed to carry forward several undertakings in order to prevent poverty, but many of them have failed to do so. In the meantime, as has been said here, this previous plan, this third plan, this reformation agreement. And since 2014, the contrary activity of poverty has been in an impasse, and we believe in a subject so important that it is not acceptable. That's why we're very generous today. We have also insisted, and we have also shown the chief physician that he will have us escorted by those policies which are placed in the midst of men, but we shall be very careful and severe in the succession of this agreement. Because I don't believe in those ponposous megaments anymore. I prefer a firm, humble, and less enterprise, which has been acquired by consent, which are more efficient, and renders the conditions of life worthy of them. And it is true that this morning I had a chance to look over the project of the ancients (too high), and I was troubled to see that there are certain restrictions in view. I'm glad to see this plan has been stored in a collection of 20,000 euros. But fear seems to us today to be a good bargain. It seems to us that we've been in good ways, that we've marked more than just steps, and that that's positive, but I wanted to warn them that these agreements are done, both by groups supported by the government and by the chief physician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u33	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing a non-law proposal by the Elkarrekin Group concerning the implementation of a poverty eradication strategy. Poverty and social exclusion are the result of a complex and multidimensional process. The isolated citizen cannot cope with this situation. In order to combat poverty and social exclusion, it is therefore necessary to take joint action on all public policies and not exclusively from social policy. The relationship between the Basque system of social services and employment is based on the impact that such social services have on working people, enabling them to have access to and stay in employment by providing them with the benefits they need, but also on the unemployed, by providing them with the social services that cover them with the ability to meet basic needs under decent conditions, thus preventing them from being at risk of exclusion or socially excluded. In the context of the fight against inequality and in favour of a fair redistribution of wealth, the income guarantee system, which in Euskadi has an essential basis, is income guarantee income. A system that must evolve to cope with the new situations of poverty caused by the economic crisis. We all agree on that. The income guarantee system (income guarantee, supplementary housing benefit and AES) continues to have a positive impact, preventing the development of more serious expressions of poverty, contributing to lower levels of subjective perception of the presence of the phenomenon of poverty. Almost 42% of the total income of people affected by poverty in Euskadi comes from the system of GIR, supplementary housing benefit and AES. The income guarantee system must take into account that it is the last link in the solidarity chain, to which citizens access when they cannot get a job or even, even if they do, when their wages or pensions do not allow a sufficient level of income to live in dignity. It is an indisputable system of social cohesion, which makes it possible to alleviate the consequences of the crisis in our society. Employment and the fight against poverty are issues that are closely related. Today one can be in a situation of social exclusion even with employment. Temporaryity, part-time contracts, lower wages after the 2012 labour reform, the wage gap between men and women, job insecurity, are one of the main factors associated with poverty. I am glad that the Nationalist Group, ourselves (the Basque Socialists), the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Group We have been able to come to this compromise amendment that will help to move forward in the design of the comprehensive strategy against poverty. The People's Group, although it has not signed it, has already stated that it will vote in favour of it. I believe that this compromise proposal is important. Today we have managed to reach an agreement, we have made an effort by all the political groups to come together the different points, because it is also a fairly extensive compromise amendment where important issues are raised. Firstly, it is pointed out that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to design a comprehensive strategy against poverty contained in the 2017-2021 Inclusion Plan, and that it presents it to the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Youth within a maximum of ten months. The Basque Parliament, second, urges the Basque Government to comply with the outstanding agreements of the November 2014 monograph, the outcome of the debate on the comprehensive strategy to tackle unemployment and poverty, as well as to integrate the fifty-five recommendations contained in the mid-term and final evaluation of the Basque Social Inclusion Plan. And that is important, as has already been shown here today, because many of those recommendations that were contained in the conclusions and resolutions of the monograph have not been met, despite the time that has elapsed. Thirdly, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to take the necessary measures to promote the socio-occupational inclusion of all people at risk of social exclusion, and also that this whole process be carried out with the participation of social institutions and actors (such as Ararteko), platforms and coordinators against poverty, third sector, trade unions and individuals or groups of people affected by poverty. And, furthermore, that in all this we look at the gender perspective, we take into account the gender perspective, which is also an important issue. This compromise amendment is therefore very complete. The 2017-2021 Inclusion Plan must be valued; it must be put within the same challenges and priorities for the prevention and treatment of social exclusion, and it must address the changes and actions to be undertaken to facilitate social and labour inclusion processes in the Autonomous Community, as well as the Active Inclusion Plan. This active inclusion identifies the centrality of employment as one of the main determinants of social exclusion processes, and this plan needs to be updated. In this plan it is important to collect the measures to be taken to prevent such social exclusion of unemployed persons or persons with precarious jobs, through more specialized care by, among others, Lanbide as an employment service. Lanbide is a tool for guidance and work mediation, in addition to managing social benefits. It is therefore important to emphasize the importance of Lanbide's activities in this field, and to improve training for employment and the integration routes for persons receiving financial benefits. The intermediation figures achieved so far by this body need to be improved, as these have been really low. Because we must have a system to ensure that basic needs are met for citizens, a good social coverage network, but we must also improve job integration, primarily so that these situations are not chronicled. I am grateful to the groups that have signed the compromise, and also to the People's Group, which, although it has not signed it, will vote in favour of it, because it has also participated in the drafting of this compromise amendment, which we have finally agreed among all the political groups in the House. Mrs Guanche, the other parliamentarians do not come from Mars, we are people who have been born on Earth and have grown up with our feet on earth, and we are also with people, we are also on the street, and we know the problems of citizens, and we have defended and will defend policies to fight poverty. I already know that it hurts you that, since you are a new group – that we do not tell others; you repeat it in all the plenarys – you have that little complex that we have a long history behind us, but it is so, and that you will not be able to change it. We've been there a long time, we're not new, and we've been doing politics all these years and we're going to keep doing it. That being said as a shade to what you have commented, I must conclude, however, by thanking all the work done. And I believe that the effort has been worth it, because the compromise amendment adopted here today will have an impact on the improvement of that comprehensive strategy in the fight against poverty, which is so important to Basque citizens. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u34	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. To tell you the truth, Mrs. Kotja's, I'm surprised to hear you've started your interference, saying the president wasn't interested in this. There have been many more gaps in your bank when you were talking, much more seats than empty, and I don't think that doesn't mean that your teammates don't care or care about this matter at all. Many times have we spoken of poverty in the legislature, whether in general or in respect of various poverty: the poverty, the poverty of children, the poverty of women, the poverty of labor... It is evident that the crisis which we have suffered has left many of us in a critical state, those who have never been in this state, and who have never thought of their being exposed to such a situation. Eunerative patriot believes that poverty is the problem of society, not only that which endures it, and therefore we have a precursive and important measures in the course of the Eucocad. Our group understands poverty as a problem of society as a whole; it is a collective, not individual issue, not only of the person or people who suffer it directly. For this reason, long-standing efforts have been made in Euskadi to put in place measures to prevent or at least alleviate, to the extent possible, the situation of helplessness and unprotectiveness to which these people can be subjected. Euskadi is solidarity. We have, with broad consensus, a pioneering, advanced social protection system that is close to the models of the most developed countries in Europe. A model that we defend and continue to defend, because, with its imperfections and margins of improvement, it has allowed social cohesion in Euskadi. We bet on the sustainability and viability of the current protection system, which requires limits in today's world so that our sons and daughters can develop similar ends in the morning; because they are people who must have access to the same rights we enjoy today, or at least that must be our ideal. We have certain indicators that objectively demonstrate that we in Euskadi have been working for social inclusion and against poverty, if we compare not only with the State, but with the rest of Europe and with the world: the poverty risk rate in Euskadi is 10.9; in the State, 22.1 (double); in Europe, 17.2. Euskadi is the fourth country in Europe with the lowest poverty rate, which does not mean that we have to fall into complacency, but the data are. In addition, Euskadi ranks second in terms of the social cohesion index of the European Union of the Fifteen. And one last fact: Euskadi ranks eighth in the world with respect to the human development index, behind countries such as Norway, Australia and the Netherlands. These facts reflect that we have done well in our country, among all of us, that the pretty ones set in motion have had their positive consequences. But it is true, too, that this last crisis has revealed certain weakness and deficiencies of the system. The people who have been excluded from the welfare system have increased. That's why we asked him to bring in a report about the social armor system to agree to the improvements required by the Parliament as a starting-point. Besides, we must give proper answer to those who are in poverty or poverty. It is the responsibility of the whole society that no one should be out of society. That's why today we're asking you to bring me 2017-2021 socialization plan. In this plan, it is necessary that specific measures should be added to the persons who are taking the worst part in our society, in order to escape from the unpleasant situation. We have come to a wide agreement, for it is all our business to agree and set up the measures for the departure and departure of those who are in poverty in society. And we're asking you to join us in the social plan. The plan will consider the evaluation of the preceding, as it is natural, and also because it is demanded by law. We call on the Government to comply with the outstanding agreements adopted in the 2014 monograph on unemployment and poverty, adapting them to the new needs identified in the 2016 Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey, which, as you know, is mandated by the Government every two years. We will have to see and analyse what these data bring, as some spokesman who has spoken before me also said. The Basque Government has already launched many of the initiatives adopted as motions for resolutions in 2014: increased amounts for ESAs and conciliation aid for the 2015 budget, concrete measures to address energy poverty... Some measures required the modification of the social protection system, which, we understand, is already being addressed by the request made to the Government to submit to Parliament the report which must serve as the basis for undertaking such reform from the point of view of calm and consensus, as we have been repeating. Also, given the time that has elapsed, we believe that it is essential to adapt those requests to the new needs and the current context that emerges from the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities 2016, because even some might be obsolete or outdated, and it would be better to focus on others. The Government is asked to include measures to promote the socio-occupational integration of persons at risk of social exclusion, because we see employment as a fundamental factor for participation, integration and full integration into society. We are convinced and convinced of the integrative effect of employment, its importance in combating social exclusion and poverty, but it is also necessary to take a step further, and that the employment that is generated is of quality, as said yesterday by the Sailburu itself. One of the pillars of the previous employment plan was therefore the integration of the most disadvantaged into the labour market, with measures aimed at the training of these groups, special employment centres, integration companies, local and regional employment plans, which have served to some extent to recruit people in situations of special vulnerability and difficulty in accessing employment. She's been standing there and making decisions to help people out of society or out of society. We've still got work, a lot of work to change the situation, but we're on our way, and, as we said in the 2014 monographics of the year, all of us are indispensable, the interaction is indispensable. Thus it is received at the fourth point of the medium, that the intervention of various agents and institutions may be secured in the tramitation of the plan. In the 2014 plenary, we gathered various ideas from the institutional declaration of the Ararteko, presented on the occasion of the celebration of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, which we made our own to share and which we reiterate today for continuing to be of the highest topicality. Among them was the Ararteko, Mr Lezertua: "In Euskadi there are families in poverty and there are many families at risk of social exclusion"; fortunately, Euskadi "has a social protection network which, although it does not cover all the existing needs, produces the effect of placing poverty rates at lower levels than the European average", being "the most important device of the social protection network" income guarantee. The motto of the United Nations for that year 2014 was: "Think, decide and act together against poverty". All institutions and administrations, as well as different actors, must and must be committed to the eradication of poverty and social exclusion in the Basque Country. We must think, decide and act together and together; we must work to strengthen the political and social consensuses that have supported GIR throughout most of its existence. The objective of combating poverty and social exclusion must be maintained and duly met, and efforts must be made to improve the effectiveness and functioning of that important mechanism, covering the needs associated with the dignified lives of each and every one of the people living in Euskadi. So we're really glad we got that big deal. It is necessary for all of us to end poverty, now and in the future. It's not easy work, it's not a day to fix it, but let's go along together, step forward. Amaitzeko, ore 28 urte diru-sarrerak bermatzeko laguntzen aurrekaria onartu zenean, José Ignacio Arrieta jaunak esandako hitzekin bukatu nahi dut lehen txanda hau: "In Euskadi we have assumed marginalization not as a problem of which it suffers, but of society. And, as such, their solution cannot be the property of anyone, but the responsibility of everyone. Therefore, we appeal to that same spirit of consensus and responsibility of all to continue working for the people who are going through the worst and who are at serious risk, in many cases, of falling into exclusion." That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. We'll take the answers turn. This time, together Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u37	, ladies: Thank you, ma'am. Very short. Mrs Garrido, Mrs Sánchez, I know that we are all people on the street; I hope that we are all normal, within which normality is a very relative concept, because, at the very least, it would be strange if an alien had been stuck here. I wanted to talk about – and forgive me if I haven't been accurate, so I wanted to go up to the replica, because I wanted to make it clear – that we don't do this. We have had little time in professional politics, and therefore I think, think, or feel, that it is possible that we have different visions for having different life paths, and especially because one thing I have already, in this short time, realized is that times and work in institutions can sometimes run the risk of being isolated from "real" life in quotes. Of course, what he doesn't take away is more than fifty hours a week. In short, many of us came from precariousness, and from there I wanted to move the speech and from there I understand that we know some issues that it is up to us to bring from the guts. On employment, perhaps with the haste of speech I have not been able to explain it correctly. In no case have we said that employment is not an essential measure for us, because, if not, we would have refused or discussed much more about the point that Mrs Garrido insisted on introducing. What we want to say is that employment alone does not eliminate poverty, does not eradicate poverty. We must bet on measures of socio-occupational integration, of course. We must also bet on many other aspects, starting, as they point out, among others, on the agreement of the full monograph, on quality employment, as Mrs Arregi has mentioned. But that, with labour reforms, which seem to put many people at a disadvantage, would hardly be achieved without articulating, by the means of the capacities we have in Euskadi, other mechanisms such as health care, social services, housing or income guarantee. Because we understand that employment no longer shields you against poverty. You're no longer safe from being a poor person for having a job. And to validate this is the precarious. I do not think that is something that is at issue in this debate. Without further ado, Eta bukatzeko, as Nerea Kortajarena mentioned, the usual recipes, in our opinion, no longer serve as we have been applying them. Let's be brave, and look for other ways to do it. Poverty is a concern – and in that we agree with what Mrs Arregi has mentioned – a concern and an occupation of society as a whole. Let us walk together, I believe that today we have taken a great step, and all I have left is to congratulate ourselves on having been able to reach this agreement. We'll keep on waiting for it to stay on wet paper. Thank you. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Popula group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u39	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, certainly, Mrs Guanche, I do not believe that any alien has been brought into this House, although sometimes, in the light of the debates and the issues that are being debated in this House, there are doubts. In any case, I do not think this is the case in this debate. I would highlight the agreement that we have reached by all groups, and we hope that this time this Government will fulfil the mandates and this particular mandate, which places duties on it in relation to the referral of the new social inclusion plan and the implementation of the agreements that are not in compliance with the full monograph on poverty. Yes, Mrs Guanche, for us employment is the best social policy, and, of course, where we have the opportunity to exercise politics and govern our actions are aimed at achieving that end. Undoubtedly, getting better jobs and quality is one of the challenges facing the different public institutions, but it must also be acknowledged that with the policies that have been put in place, praised by the European institutions, we are on the path of recovery, and that this is the way forward, and we must go further along that path. I would remark that the agreement which we have arrived is, in my opinion, a very important step, and we hope in this case to fulfil the duties signed and laid down by the Government. The popular party, seeing these matters important, has hitherto been concerned with the employments which he has brought with him, and which is why, as he had been so recently tried in this Chamber, he has carefully insisted upon a proposal to promote the employment of a special plan. And that is why, apart from bringing a concrete initiative to draw up an interinstitutional plan to promote employment in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in coordination with other institutions, we have also brought to this House the debate on the shortcomings of the instruments we have, such as Lanbide. We understand that this government has to change its course here, it has to change its policies, and we hope that with the mandates that are coming out of this House, and above all with the vigilant attitude that we are going to have some groups, and of course the People's Party, to which I belong, this government will comply with the agreements and the agreement that we have reached today in this House. On the other hand, I also believe that it is appropriate to congratulate us on the agreement reached and, above all, on the effort we have all made to achieve it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u40	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u41	Thanks again. For aliens and... I don't know, I don't know if it's about being extraterrestrial or feeling extraterrestrial, that some of us have had that feeling once in this House. But I think that, in any case, nothing would happen if at some point someone had a vein and had the ability to get up a bit and could see the debates from another perspective, because that is always healthy. So, whether being an alien, or being from an airplane or from other areas, being able to analyse situations outside this House, I have no doubt that all of us here have a life before and after, because it is also interesting, and the trajectory that brings us to this Parliament is certainly also interesting, isn't it? Because I think it would be important for us to focus and analyze this strategy from other perspectives. Because neither can I – and I have said it many times – share that the best social policies are those of employment, and the situation of poor working people shows that this paradigm is exhausted. This does not remove or diminish the importance of employment, it does not diminish any importance, but it does indicate that no poverty eradication strategy can focus exclusively on that path or should focus most of its efforts on that, because, unfortunately, if there is anything about poverty, it is multi-factorial and multi-sectoral and multidimensional. And the truth is, also mentioning extraterrestrials, I'd like to invite you to do an exercise. And it's just that I think this deal, which I value, if there's anything about it, it makes us get started. And it makes us start together. Because, whether we like it or not, we talk a lot about this kind of thing, but there are times when we do too little, or what we do doesn't have the impact it should have. And there's an exercise that's very interesting, which shows it: If you put the word exclusion or poverty on Google, and you go to images, there are a lot of images about what poverty and exclusion is. Many images that there are many times are a little what I like to call pornomiseria, but they reflect a reality. If you do the same exercise and google inclusion, you will see that there are no real images, that all the images that appear related to inclusion are these monigotes that grab, that go in a wheelchair..., this kind of situations, that are colored and such, but they are not a reality. They're not a reality. And it is that inclusion today is not a reality; it is a desire surely shared, but it is not a reality. And you know what they say that, what you don't see..., what you don't see doesn't exist, and what doesn't exist doesn't fit into any political agenda, and what doesn't fit into any political agenda isn't planned, and what you don't plan, there's no resources to move forward. And, in that sense, if anything has highlighted this crisis, there is an invisibility: an invisibility of a lot of women and men in very serious situations, some in a situation of exclusion after the crisis, but others and others who have been settled in that situation for a long time, because this, unfortunately, despite the efforts, is not a new situation. Therefore, it seems to me as if it were a very positive agreement. I'm going to pull my gang's ears too because they're not there, but the leader of this government is Urkullu, and he's the one who took the commitment to make that 20 percent reduction here. And, of course, I understand that it's the work of a team, but sometimes it seems to me that such small jets are important. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Sanchez anderea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u43	Well, Mrs Guanche, I thank you for your qualifications, but I insist that in all political groups there are people who come from precarious work, and others who do not. In his group not everyone comes from job insecurity, which seems to have presented him like this in his exhibition. There are people in their political party who come, as in other political parties, from better professional situations, and from worse and precarious situations. No party has the exclusive privilege of labor insecurity, because we are the sum of a lot of people who come from society, with a previous professional baggage, who bring it to politics and come here to Parliament to do politics. But in that all parties have a different amalgam, because society itself is plural. I simply wish to express my satisfaction. I believe that today, on the subject before us, we have achieved an important compromise amendment, a very complete compromise amendment, and we have also carried out a thorough, prior contact between the various political groups, which has enabled us to gather all these points, the five points contained in this compromise proposal, which will improve and enable us to improve this strategy of combating poverty so important, taking into account the situations of social exclusion that have been generated as a result of the long economic crisis in which we are immersed, and that, of course, every time people's pockets spend more and more, because of a lot of factors that I am not going to repeat, which we all know enormously. And, of course, it is very important that these strategies be taken into account from policy, that they be updated, that they be reflected in the new plan for the coming years, that is important, taking into account the developments and the conclusions that will be drawn from all the work that is reflected in this compromise amendment, and I think that is important. And on such important issues as this for all Basque citizens it is certainly very positive that there is unanimity and consensus among all parties, in seeking precisely those measures and policies to achieve this eradication of poverty as soon as possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u44	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u45	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Poverty, exclusion... The need to deal with this dramatic situation is not born with the initiative presented to us today Podemos. Everyone, as the rest of the groups reminded him, we are people who live attached to the ground, we know our citizenship, we know what is happening. And we've been working in Euskadi for years to make good, to the extent of our possibilities... And here are the data I read you in the first intervention, which puts us in a good position, or, if you want, to be more correct, less bad, and together with the most advanced European countries. Obviously we cannot fall into self-congratulation, and it is true, as I said in the first round, that the serious crisis suffered has increased the number of people who are in a state of lack of well-being or at risk of exclusion or even poverty. That is why we must continue to work together. But if it were as easy as approving a plan and implementing all the measures that are collected in it, there would be no poverty, nor people really doing it wrong, either in the state, or in cities like Cadiz, Madrid or Barcelona, or in Europe or the rest of the world. Mrs Garrido said that in the negotiations she (the People's Party) had put a lot of emphasis on the issue that the mid-term and final evaluations of the previous plan should be taken into account. This is a legal requirement, and it is true that the insistence of the People's Party on this has been important, even though, as important as it was, it had not put it in its amendment to the whole of its day. Then the importance was due to occur along the way. It unanimously adopted, yes, but without the signature of the People's Party once again, despite having picked up that insistence and point 2 of its original amendment, which has also been literally picked up, because in fact we all agreed. In his speech he has been wrong to say that this government does nothing, that there are a lot of breaches, he has talked about Lanbide..., well, the raccas that he usually talks to us. But, look, even though you continue to insist that this government does nothing, the inefficiency, the lack of ideas, of measures... yesterday the latest data from the Sociometer were published, where citizenship even increased confidence in the Basque Nationalist Party. So, so bad you won't be doing everything, Mrs. Garrido. Mrs Kortajarena said that employment is an important factor in the eradication of poverty and that it is not the only one. We fully share that, and we also believe that this job – also said by Mrs Guanche – must be of quality, and in that we have been insisting, in which we do not... Because, if not, there would be no labour poverty that we have also talked about on many occasions in this rostrum. What you said about President Urkullu, that he'd committed, and that he's the head of the government, of course he's the boss of this government, and that the commitment he's committed to this government is to reduce the poverty of 20%. Be assured that he will do so, and that we shall all come to it with the help of all. Eta amaitzeko, I remain with the positive of the agreement, with the will of all groups to achieve among all..., to row in the same direction and to seek (and I hope to find) among all the measures to solve, within our possibilities and limitations, this problem, and to include it in the political agenda. I believe that among all of us we will be able to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u47	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition, as the Parlamentarian Party team made, concerning the statements made by the principal secretary of Artandaldo Ocera in the creation of the Ocera. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Llanos, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. One hundred and fifty-six civilian guards, one hundred and forty-nine national police officers, fifteen ertzainas killed in Euskadi, thousands of wounded, cars burned, attacks, insults to agents and their families, ertzainas beaten at the feasts of Bilbao, kale borroka, threats. That was for too many years on the day-to-day side of the security forces and bodies in Euskadi, when only because they were at the forefront of all terrorists. We are talking about a new time, and if we can talk about a new time it is because ETA has been defeated by the Security Forces and Bodies, by the rule of law, by Basque society and by the rest of Spanish society. We may be in a new time, but a new time that seems too much, sometimes, to the old time, in which we have seen the attack on two civilian guards in Alsasua just because it is, we have seen acts of advocacy of terrorism in institutes, we have seen concentrations in front of the police stations of the Ertzaintza to accuse them of torturers. All this no longer without condemnation, but with the participation of the abertzale left. This new time that so much likes to proclaim to some has not arrived for the left abertzale. The abertzale left is clear that it remains anchored in the past, in a past of complicity with ETA, with all the suffering, pain and deaths caused by ETA terrorism, which today remains uncondemned. We are witnessing an involution, a stagnation in the theory of conflict, with the aim of whitening that past, its history of connivance with ETA. A theory according to which terrorism is only violence as a result of a political conflict. And a proof of that is their amendment, where they speak of the conflict produced by political motivation and of drawing up a complex and comprehensive account. And he talks about diversity of opinions. The terrorism with which ETA punished Basque society and the rest of Spanish society is not a matter of opinion, it is a reality, a cruel reality. And he talks about freedom of expression. It is precisely because we are in democracy that there is freedom of expression and Mr Otegi can say what he said. But that does not mean that others cannot react to their words. Because in his statements Otegi equates the trajectory of a terrorist gang like ETA, with nearly a thousand dead behind his back, with the rule of law. It equips terrorism with the actions of the State Security Forces and the Ertzaintza in defending the democratic framework and freedoms, against which terrorism has systematically attacked. We are faced with one more step, one more example of the return to the past, of the strategy of the alibi and the justification of ETA in which are the leaders of the left abertzale. Mr. Otegi said: "In this country he has killed ETA, the LAG and the Spanish Basque Battalion, and they have also killed the Civil Guard, the National Police and the Ertzaintza". This is simply unacceptable. This Parliament should stand in a clear and strong position in defence of those who have done precisely what it has done is to play their lives in defence of democracy and freedom in this country. We cannot look elsewhere when we find these statements, which are serious, which cannot be admitted after all the suffering we have suffered in Basque society. There have been terrorists and people who have been harassed by terrorists, there have been executioners and there have been victims. There have been police, civilian guards and ertzainas who have suffered the persecution of ETA, who have lost their lives at the hands of that terrorist gang. People who have seen their way of life, their habits, those of their family, those of their children altered, because of ETA. And it is very hard for those same people to have to endure today that political representatives who belonged to ETA, like Otegi, equip them with the same terrorists who for years condemned them to live persecuted and threatened. Here he killed ETA, he killed the LAG, he killed the Spanish Basque Battalion, killer gangs, terrorist gangs. And the members of the Civil Guard, the National Police and the Ertzaintza have endured exemplaryly to combat that terrorism. They have been a fundamental pillar in the defence of the freedom and fundamental rights of Basques. Otegi insists on justifying ETA's terrorist trajectory, which is only its own trajectory, that of those who for many years were dedicated to pointing out and throwing out the killers. He insists on the equalization of a fundamental piece of the rule of law with whom, throughout his criminal career, he has pursued only precisely the elimination of that rule of law. We have a democratic responsibility, an ethical requirement not to overlook these claims, which attempt to equate victims and executioners. This Parliament has to be an example. Otegi's statements show the point on which the abertzale left is today, as he said before: in the past; in falsifying that terrorist past, and in his null will to acknowledge the damage caused by ETA to this country. The Civil Guard, the National Police and the Ertzaintza what they have done is fight against ETA. They have been and are bulwark in defense of peace and coexistence. They therefore represent quite the opposite of ETA and its terrorist trajectory. They can't be matched, and it's inadmissible for anyone to try to match them. And that equalization has to be denounced. Many of us who are sitting here today in this Parliament and our families owe them a great deal. We owe them our lives, having given us protection, security in order to live on. ETA was killing, and members of the State Security Force and Ertzaintza resisted. They endured the pain of having to bury many comrades, but never failed to fulfil their commitment to defending democratic values. Today, in this very Parliament, we have paid tribute to Fernando Buesa, who was killed by a car bomb alongside the ERTZAINA Jorge Díaz. And I ask you: Who has killed in this country? I ask Mr. Otegi: Who has killed in this country, Mr. Otegi? Who put the car bomb that took the life of Fernando Buesa and Jorge Díaz? Did Jorge Díaz belong to a band of murderers? Wasn't it a band of terrorists who killed Jorge Díaz's life while trying to protect Fernando Buesa from those same killers? There is on the left abertzale an attempt to distort ETA's past, to try to confuse, to put victims and executioners in the same sack, to invent a false narrative. And our democratic obligation must lead us precisely to make that past clear and meridian, unambiguous and equidistant: that in this country there was and still is a terrorist gang that killed nearly a thousand people, and that many people resisted that terrorist harassment in an exemplary way. And in that front line of resistance there were always national police, civilian guards and ertzainas. They persisted in the fight against ETA terrorism with a commendable determination. We only ask Parliament to respond in the same way, to show a gesture towards the State Security Forces and Bodies, towards the Ertzaintza, which today is being harassed by the abertzale left at the gates of its police stations; and to have the same democratic determination that has always guided the actions of police, civilian guards and ERTzaines in the fight against ETA. We owe it to them and to society as a whole. We can't get used to statements that seek to match murderers and victims. We cannot think of them as good, we cannot not react to them, we cannot reveal their gravity. I am calling for a simple and clear gesture, but for democratic justice, a necessary gesture. We have an obligation to counter the truth to the lie, and not to overlook those who insist on falsifying ETA's terrorist past; a gesture that makes it clear that those who concentrate today in front of the police stations of the Ertzaintza were jealous until very recently that ETA had attacked the Ertzaintzas, who launched threats under the slogan of "Today in black, tomorrow in your wife". Or have we forgotten that already? This Parliament cannot ignore either Otegi's statements or the harassment that Ertzaintza is experiencing today, because in this strategy of building a false account it seems that they have now placed Ertzaintza first, with concentrations in front of the police stations, shameful concentrations. This photo is a picture of a shame, of a real shame that we must all denounce; a sample of harassment that is not alien to the ertzainas, because they have already suffered it in the past. Harassment that even reached the point, as in the case of Joseba Goikoetxea, murdered after a campaign by Herri Batasuna against him. It must also be pointed out that we must be clear and forceful, that we must be clear from this Parliament and that we must be clear from the Basque Government. Because it must also be said that from those dusts come these muds. Many ertzainas feel criminalized, but not only by the usual ones, but also by the Basque Government itself. They feel abandoned by who should defend them. After years of fighting against ETA, the Ertzaintza has had to see how it has been wanted to give lessons in morality and ethics. He has had to see how the Peace and Co-existence Plan dedicates a specific fact sheet to him on the need for Ertzaintza and its agents to advance in the defence of human rights. They had to see how the commitment of the Ertzaintza agents to human rights was being questioned. The Ertzaintza has also had to see how they are included in the same list of terrorists and murderers. He has had to see how they are required to be close to the citizens, as if they had ever been far away. And they have also had to see how no concentration in favour of terrorists is prevented in places where Ertzaintza agents have been killed, in what is an absolute lack of sensitivity and respect. And here, as the Ertzaintza agents themselves say, it cannot be done as if nothing had happened, it cannot be erased and a new account, it cannot be built a false past to allow some to not have to face the shame of what they were doing and where they were in that past. The Civil Guard, the National Police, the Ertzaintza, have always contributed, and for a long time, in a context conditioned by terrorism, to the defence of human rights. That is why they deserve the recognition and gratitude of all Basque society and Basque institutions. Very similar words that I have just said in this House today were the Lehendakari, Mr Urkullu. That is why I ask you in this initiative something very simple and something very clear: that we do not allow this equality and that we make this recognition to those who have always been in the struggle for rights and democracy. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u49	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The turn of the groups that issued the corrections: Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u50	Thank you. Today, thirty-three years ago, a Basque worker asked for the confidence of his neighbours to return to these seats and use the word and do politics in search of freedom and equality. He opened the door to his house, and the only words he gave him time to say before the killers wanted to remove the ballot box he was leading was that of "cowards." But even though Enrique Casas was killed that day, days later that ballot was taken by thousands of Gipuzcoans. And even today there are those who don't learn. That is why the Socialists recognize that the reasonings brought to us by the People's Group have a well-founded basis; in fact, we note with great concern that the statements to which they refer were not a day's bloom, nor a betrayal of the subconscious, nor a journalistic misinterpretation. They have been repeated and sustained in time, in an undisguised interest of the left abertzale to want to hide the main focus of the great tragedy suffered in this country, in which so many people have suffered with a thread, which is the existence of ETA. We recognise this, although we also believe, Mrs Llanos, that it is not right that we in Parliament repudiate statements by political leaders (with political responsibility, yes) but that they have no public or institutional office. In fact, we have recently heard, and right here, in this rostrum, statements from those who do have that public responsibility, which a majority has removed from our seats, and yet, as that initiative has come, they would not deserve that rejection for you. There has been no specific initiative in this case. And if I hurry, I'll add something else. Just a couple of weeks ago his colleague Borja Semper, following another debate on the delegitimization of terror in the classroom, when listening to Bildu's spokesman expressly claimed that we could hear what is being asked of us from those seats; that, with as much pain as it remains to be repaired, so many victims who ask us not to forget them, from the left abertzale is diverting attention to avoid their responsibility. And the Socialists share that concern. We share the fund of rebellion with those who want to spread a blanket of oblivion, and we believe that we must blame permanently and directly those who sit with us in these seats, those who have the responsibility, more than anyone at this time, with the whole of society, to say clearly that no one should ever have killed, murdered, tortured, extortioned or threatened, either on the grounds of the State or for imposing a political project. We will strongly insist on those words, until the seventy-five parliamentarians that we meet here and represent all citizens can say so without nuance and rhetoric. Today we started this plenary by recalling two comrades of the Socialist Party who preceded us in this House and who were unjustly murdered, and we did so in silence. But socialists do not want silence to hide words to hide shame. That eagerness to disguise the truth was expressly alluded to by Fernando Buesa the last time ETA allowed him to use this rostrum to tell truths like fists, on February 18, 2000, only a few days before he was killed. I think that only four people of whom we are in this House today had the opportunity to listen to you: the Lehendakari himself, if I am not mistaken, Mr Egibar, Mr Barrio and Mrs Goirizelaia, who is again sitting here today, although that day from the bench of the left abertzale they gave up replying to him. A couple of weeks earlier, yes, a couple of weeks earlier, nothing more than ETA killing Pedro Antonio Blanco in Madrid and breaking what was called Lizarra (the Lizarra truce broke), Buesa stripped the reality of those who faced politics from ethical and democratic bases against those who continued to find reasons for so much unwiseness. I will not go into radical discrepancies at the time, because we knew how to channel agreements that have been transcendental later, such as police collaboration, the full involvement of Ertzaintza in the anti-terrorist task, the great agreement for the law that seeks to repair the victims of all terrorism, the one that seeks to start repairing that of police abuses... And we don't want to get into that because we also have, fortunately, an instrument, with Gogora, where we all want to participate to manage all those public memory policies. Policies that will mean, because it will not otherwise be possible, the critical reflection with the past and the express recognition of all the social and professional individuals and sectors that have suffered terrorism and other unjust human rights violations. But there are words, which we claim some, that seventeen years later have the same validity as then. I will be allowed in the next few minutes to quote textual words from that statement made by Fernando Buesa in January 2000: "The violent death of a human being, deliberately sought by his killers, is a radically unjust act. No one can claim it or claim it on behalf of any political cause, because murder in any way can be considered a political act. That is why it is not enough just to regret it, it is not enough if at the same time the murderous hand that unjustly snatched his life is not condemned. "Whatever political ideas each one defends, whatever political project each party intends to push, no idea, no political project is legitimate in a democratic system if it is to impose on others with violence and death, at the cost of the murder of our citizens or trying to prevent also with violence the free expression and defense of dissenting ideas. "In order to confront that enemy and conjure his threat, it is necessary to express clearly and in political terms some principles, it is necessary to avoid errors and it is also necessary to join efforts, first of all to affirm some principles that at least in our opinion" – Fernando said – "are the following: "ETA cannot be considered as an organization or a political agent, wrong in the media but acceptable in its purposes and objectives. Killing, extorting, exploding bombs are by no means political acts, but criminal acts, and those who order, plan or execute them are neither gudaris, nor patriots, nor heroes, deserve the homage of no one but the revulsion of all. "ETA nothing represents worth this country's worth. It is others who give them such representation when they try to explain, understand, excuse or justify their actions. It is others who attribute weight and influence to them when they consider their slogans or their proposals." "It is a mistake not to distinguish clearly between peace and politics. Democratic politics must be made in peace, not in exchange for peace. Therefore, if we take that principle into account, it is always possible, from the legitimate discrepancy of projects, to act in common in the face of the terrorist threat." So far Fernando's words in January 2000, when they had just killed a person and when ETA had already decided Fernando's own death. He had a reply, that day, from Arnaldo Otegi in this very rostrum. Mr. Otegi said: "... After all, everyone knows, we all know here, we also know very well, that there is a political conflict here – the first question – and that, therefore, in that political battle, one way or another, the Basque country must be recognized for the justice and democracy that are due to it. In short, the political recognition of the Basque Country, which the Basque Country and its society is subject to political rights, will have to be recognized. We don't know when. The sooner the better. (...) Everyone knows that it is not going to end with ETA through police, military, technical operations, because forty years prove it." That "the sooner" Mr. Otegi predicted extended far beyond a dozen years. And the end of ETA was also not as predicted by the left abertzale, they were wrong: they won the principles, they won the ethics and they won the democracy that Fernando claimed, that we the socialists claimed and that we claimed the majority of those who are here, above any violation of rights. How effective today are Fernando's words, how much Otegi insistence, to insist still today on that painful error! But the words of the former appealed to all Basque society; the words of the latter are addressed only to their own. That is why the former have triumphed and the latter fail. But in building memory and coexistence, ethics, principles and democracy will once again triumph. The injustice of every murder will not be erased, because doing so would be perverse and indecent. That is why we want to recognise once again those who have worked actively for ETA to end, the police, the political agents, the social agents..., all those who have made it possible for us to get here and whose task, and also their fears, must be projected by Gogora, which is exactly what we ask in our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Pastor, I'm going to say that you said it was very effective. And, above all, today I've heard you with all due respect and I can understand with all due respect the pain you're telling me and the pain you're having because we've felt at other times. I must also tell you, that we took a great part in our memoirs yesterday, and I must tell you, perhaps not in words, but that I can really meet them in actions. When this initiative was introduced to-day, I was surprised, and I must say, I was surprised after four months, to register it and bring this initiative to-day. And instead of examining the content or essence of this enterprise, instead of examining what some one said or did not say, I should like to examine the cause or the political logic of this enterprise, and I will set focus on it: why this activity has been introduced, by this initiative, what exercise is it to exercise, what is its end? , what is the search results? , what is the result that is sought? and, after all, what political interest the proposer has for such a subject, it is plain that it is not to be protected, because it will not be so. In fact, I think today's initiative is not a constructive one. In this sense, nothing is sought to build. We don't think it's a reasonable or productive initiative. And we think it's the only purpose to put this difficult discussion together. I believe that this initiative is only intended to bring a huge amount of mud, to further embarrass a debate that is certainly complicated and that will bring many doses of empathy and confidence in order to be able to work it. However, I say again, mud is brought back, on which it is clear that nothing can be built. Everyone knows that on mud it is not possible to lay foundations on which to sustain absolutely nothing. Proponents again set position, a position that is known and a position that – we also interpret – has mud feet. Perhaps they consider this initiative to be effective in setting up a discourse of winners or losers; however, so many times to bring it in, so many times to point it out, we consider that we really doubt the root of this discourse in society. If so much focus is on this discourse, it is that it does not all have them with it that it is silent, and I believe that the continuous overexposition of this discourse ends up carrying precisely the opposite effect to that which is sought. What's the story today? Mr Basagoiti put it clearly in this very atrium a few years ago. He said, "ETA has killed 857 people, and those of us who defend the unity of Spain, zero." I don't know if he matched it, I don't know if he set up different sides or opposing sides. What I do know is that it is not a calculus problem or a counting problem, because this count is false. Because it's the false count you want to impose. Because it is a story that obviates reality, that obviates truth and that obviates the certainty of what really happened. Later Mr Basagoiti in this same atril read the list of victims of ETA. We listen with respect. No one denied, no one argued, no one questioned that listing. That's right. It's true. But we all know that listing is not the only listing. And I suppose that's what Mr. Hore wanted to put on the table, with other victims, unobtrusively undetected. There's another list, a list that we don't know and we need to complete. I don't think today's debate will allow us to talk calmly about this and to penetrate into that list, but today we came with a determination, and it is not to go into the mud, and we will do so. Today we vote for freedom of speech, because thinking is meant to be free and to express what you think must be free. And today we vote for a real relatto with a constructive position for truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. We're going round the teams that don't run, together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u54	Last week, on account of Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal on the departure of the State Security Forces, I explained that in our group we thought it was a kind of excuse to make a speech in front of the gallery and bring something that permanently overflies all the issues of memory and coexistence, which is the archmanlike narrative. In the past he used an image to describe the situation and said that we seemed to live on Marmot Day, because it was not the first time that in a short period of time we talked about the story. Well, today the other side of the political board, the People's Party, delights us with what colloquially would be "if you don't want broth, because it takes two cups". Today the People's Party brings us the hardest one yet, doesn't it? Mr Otegi, who is not even a Member of this House, made in November last year and of course we do not share, proposes to us as a matter of debate. We do not share what he said, we do not share that vision of the victims, between his and the rest. But from there to bring this subject to this plenary there is a long stretch, which could even mention freedom of expression. But we're not gonna play the game with them. Today in Elkarrekin We can focus on re-emphasizing our position on the story and on a number of issues that we consider key in the area of peace and coexistence, and I will close the intervention with a finding and an invitation. Firstly, what we have already said to the point of satiety: it is essential that all victims be recognized without any exception. What does this mean? To affirm that, regardless of the type of violence or who exercised it, all the victims deserve our solidarity and respect for their unjust suffering. It implies that they all have the right to truth, justice and reparation. And that, gentlemen of the People's Party, in order not to fall into the "our victims" or "the other victims" who are here today criticizing, requires that you take some initiatives, such as amending the State Victims Act to recognize all (like Pilar Zabala) and withdraw the appeal against the Basque Police Abuse Act. Only by doing so are these victims, all the victims, allowed to exercise their rights. Secondly, if he said at the outset that it was necessary to recognize all victims without exception, such recognition must be made from the specificity of each victimization. What do you mean? That it is not really worth making an interested totum revolutionitum of all of them, of victims and by extension of victims; that it is necessary to identify, analyze, repair and delegitimize each form of violence in a specific way. And the other day, Jonan Fernández, in an interview, explained it perfectly. The victims of ETA need and deserve their own and differentiated approach, because the fact that a social sector protects violence against them means that in order to promote truth, justice and reparation this is taken into account. In the same way as the victims of State terrorism, who have not yet been even legally recognized, who have suffered violence from the one who precisely had to protect them. That still existing helplessness must be addressed and repaired in a particular way. And the same is true of other types of violence. Thirdly, that coexistence, a democratic coexistence, can only be established if we can ensure that no one ever again believes that violence is an acceptable political method. That guarantee of non-repetition is based precisely on what we have already insisted on a few times: the delegitimization of each and every violence. And it is these three elements that shape the story we need, a story that is inclusive of all suffering, a true story with everything that has happened, because being inclusive or shared cannot be an excuse for it to stop being rigorous historically. A story that has to permeate the whole of society, a plural society that, as I have pointed out before, had multiple roles over time. A story that should be based on the delegitimization of violence, that says loud and clear that killing today is wrong and was wrong always, whoever killed, just as it was and is wrong to torture and kidnap, and to extort or threaten. That story, so understood, is not (never should be) a bold weapon, it cannot be an element in constant dispute. That account, to be useful, effective or even possible, must necessarily be shared. It can't be taxed in any way. And see that I will accept one thing: there must be winners and losers, but those radically different from what you propose. I propose that the winners be human rights, peace, coexistence and a fully democratic and legal state, and that violence be overcome. It will be up to everyone to reflect and critically review their past, both collectively and individually. He will re-think what he supported, tolerated, defended, justified, denied, minimized, or what things he looked at elsewhere. And I'm just finishing up. As I said before, I will make a finding and an invitation. The fact is that today it will again be evident that there is a broad political majority in this Parliament which in matters of peace, memory and coexistence is able to agree and take steps. Everyone will know and must explain why they do not want to join that path. We, even if we miss things, and although we would express our position in other words, will abstain from the amendment tabled by the Basque Socialist Group. And the invitation is that, if you are so interested in discussing these issues, comrades of the People's Party, add to the presentation on memory and coexistence and we debate there. We'll never get tired of saying it. Why? Because we, despite the disagreements we have, do not have the People's Party left. We do not have enough of this country, and we do not have enough to build that inclusive and shared story. Let us sit down, talk and try to reach agreements, because we have no one left. Basque society demands it, and the victims need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u55	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I will make a short statement, for I do not wish to repeat many things, because I do not think they do us any favors. "The representative organ of the wants of the people is the Basque legislature. It's a legal exercise, it's an act of singing and of singing and controlling the Acts of the Congress." That's what it says about the First Article of the Rule of the Basque Laws. It is not therefore for the legislature to have a resolution to disapprove either of opinions or political expressions of others, although these expressions are highly censured. And, I'll be honest with you, what we're having today is the way we're going to discuss it. Therefore, we shall vote negatively for the other proposition as presented by the Popular party. It is not for the Basque Parliament to adopt resolutions with a pronouncement on the public opinions of anyone, nor those of the Secretary-General of Sortu. It is up to Parliament to ensure freedom of thought and expression, which are fundamental rights and as such must be dealt with. That is what we are defending, also in the case that these opinions seem to us to be critical, as is the case; also when they seem to us insulting, as is the case. Mr Otegi, clearly we say to you that the words you uttered, pretending to equate victims with victims and diluting their own responsibilities, deserve our criticism and we regard them as insulting. The Lehendakari Urkullu said so, and I say to myself: "I take the statements of Arnaldo Otegi as an insult, an insult to Ertzaintza and Basque society. It is an insult to the historical Ertzaintza and its successor. It is an insult to all Basque society in all its suffering and to the steps it has taken in favour of a normalized coexistence, in favour of the memory of the victims, of all the victims of terrorism and violence." Those manifestations of Arnaldo Otegi were unfair with Ertzaintza, falsifying reality, and wounded a large majority of this society. That remains, and there is no need to repeat it. And now from the saying to the facts. We are going to vote against the People's Party proposal, and we are doing so out of consistency, because we have always argued that Parliament should not rule on the public views of political representatives. That is not the function of Parliament. I insist that it is up to us to ensure freedom of thought and expression, and I welcome that freedom to reaffirm what I consider most important at this time. The Ertzaintza has been an exemplary police force. It was longed for and it was created precisely because we had suffered much so far with the repressive actions of other security forces. The political leaders, the members of the Ertzaintza, have taken the priority of respect for human rights very much into account and have always done so, despite the attempt to get even today. And they have done so when the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan seeks to improve, go further in that commitment of Ertzaintza, in that founding commitment of Ertzaintza, of the Ertzaintza and of its political leaders with the defense and guarantee of human rights. And they have defended it in spite of the harassment and persecution that has taken place for years against the Ertzainas by ETA. We agree with the first point in the United States of the Basque People's correction: freedom of expression is a fundamental right to preserve and protect in all circumstances. That's why we won't vote for the Popula Party's proposition. But the statements of Arnnaldo Orice were unacceptable and offensive. As President Urcullu said, these statements are insulting, insulting to the edge and to the Basque society. They're insulting to the edge created in 1936 and today's edgelines. Human rights have been and have been an example and purpose for the edge. And it would be better to confess the pain caused by the baker than to justify the past. We share with the People's Party its desire that the Government continue to promote with the whole of Basque society an extensive work of pedagogy of democracy and coexistence. It is precisely one of the fundamental objectives of the current Peace and Co-existence Plan, and it will also be one of the main objectives of the new Plan for Co-existence and Human Rights. It is one of the main aims of the Gogora Institute; it is one of the objectives and works facing the Paper of Memory and Coexistence. It is clear that we have a lot to move forward, but it is the presentation, the calm debate and the shared work that will move us forward. That is why we will vote against the non-legislative proposal tabled, as well as the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu, and we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's amendment. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u58	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, it is said here that there has been a surprise at the presentation of this initiative, which has no roots. Well, I will read in the first place a letter that a lady wrote in Letters to the Director in Deia, addressed to Mr.Otegi: "Mr.Otegi: Tell yourself of the ignorance that is the mother of daring, and I have the slight impression that you are tremendously daring, when I do not forget, talking about killing. Here in Euskadi, those who killed innocent people (among them many ertzainas), with premeditation, nightliness and lightness, are those to whom you have always defended and applauded. Mr. Otegi, if you have a minimum of dignity, I beg you to rectify and apologize for your boldness to all those men and women who stand up every day to make the Euskadi you live in more dignified and safer." This is collected from a means of communication. Then there are a lot of people on the street who don't understand that a terrorist gang can be equated with the State Security Forces and Corpses. You said that what was the purpose of this initiative. A clear goal: dignity, justice and truth. That is the objective of this initiative. And it is absolutely unworthy, absolutely unfair, and absolutely lacking in truth to compare the trajectory of murderers with that of men and women who have only fought, even giving their lives, to guarantee democracy and freedom in this country. And they say we don't have competition. I believe that in this Parliament we have referred to... I didn't think that was going to be the excuse, brought by the hair, not to approve this initiative. In any case, he has three points of initiative, and Mr Otegi's statements are the first of them, but good. I believe there have been statements here, there have been censorships of statements by political leaders. Of course there is freedom of expression, but there is also the capacity in this Parliament, some of us, to defend all the security forces and bodies of the state, you seem to be just Ertzaintza. But in any case, the Ertzaintza is a Basque institution, it is an institution that depends on the Basque Government, and in a parliament like the Basque Parliament we must defend its good name. And we must not allow and we must repudiate the words of one who tries to compare them with a band of murderers, of one who wants to go against his dignity, against justice and against the truth to which I referred before. Of course Mr Otegi has freedom of expression, because he is in a rule of law, in a democracy with which he tried to end! Of course you can say anything you want! But we can react. And it's a shame what he said, a shame, and we here today should declare it that way. We have never had any problems, none, in saying that there are other victims who must be recognized and repaired. But precisely, Mr Martínez, what we have said is that there does not have to be a totum revolution; that it cannot be equated, that it cannot be mixed all, because that is an attempt that has existed for a long time precisely to diminish the gravity of ETA terrorism. It has precisely been used as an alibi and as an instrument for that. That is why we here today do not understand the Socialist amendment. I do not understand Mr Pastor's words, with which I can agree, but not with his amendment, which is "Where are you going? Apples bring me." Because what this group is asking for in this Parliament is something very simple and clear; what is not so clear, Mr Pastor, is why you are not able to support this, when you have not only supported it on other occasions: you have presented it as your own initiative, we have even jointly signed an initiative in this regard on many occasions. I don't know how something so simple, like that you can't equate a band of murderers with the State Security Forces and Corpses, with the Ertzaintza, with the National Police, with the Civil Guard, that you have to recognize the work that in favor of the freedom and rights of the Basques the State Security Forces and Corpses have done, and that you have to do pedagogy of that, how you can't share it. How can you also say that subjects such as this, serious, that statements such as these, serious, that recognitions such as these, that are absolutely necessary, when they are vilified by statements such as these, that have to be made here in this Parliament, with light and stenographers, have to be taken to an institute or to a paper. It's just that you can't erase 40 years of terrorism! You can't erase 40 years of terrorism in four minutes! What cannot be done now is to say, 'For peace, a great store', and here we are making very serious statements and we cannot bring them to this House and we cannot pronounce the representatives of all the Basques, who are the ones who are here in the Basque Parliament, and say that it is unacceptable. That it is inadmissible that whoever suffered in his own flesh terrorism, who gave his life to defend others, now be accused of murder by those who have long been in that past of connivance with the true murderers. I think... I don't understand. I believe that our proposal is a very simple one, that our initiative at another time you would not only have voted for it, but that you would have signed it with us. And believe me, Mr. Pastor, I don't understand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u59	Amaitu, Llanos anderea...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u60	(I'm finishing, Madam President.) ... How can they not subscribe to it now. Nor do I understand that the Basque Nationalist Party, as I said, does not speak in favour of recognizing the work done by the Ertzaintza and in favour of criticizing statements as serious as those that Mr Otegi said. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u61	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u62	Make no mistake about your opponent, Mrs. Llanos. Don't be mistaken. I do not think anyone can accuse us of being lukewarm against terrorism, and especially today seems a little out of place that criticism of the Socialist Party. We wanted to do it by looking to the future. As it is a day of memory and memory, they will allow me to read a paraphite that Enrique Casas' widow, Barbara Durkhop, said a few months ago: "I am from the generation of 68, I was in Paris and Germany and I learned, in all my revolutionary euphoria, that the future does not go by scorning and ignoring the past, nor by trying to humiliate the political adversary. The future goes by looking for points in common. I sincerely believe that recognizing the facts of the past without resentment is recognizing that our present is already future, and that that must be the basis for understanding." I fully subscribe today to that reflection by Barbara Durkhop. Mr. Arzuaga commented that they were yesterday..., it is true that some leaders of Euskal Herria Bildu were in the tribute to Fernando Buesa, and they were in the afternoon at the Artium, and I appreciate that gesture. But that gesture cannot remain in an empty shell, in an image, in a photo. We have to fill it with content. And that task is not of the rest of the parties that we are in this House, it is only yours. It's from that bench. And I would ask them to look in the mirror, in their own mirror; to make a critical reflection of their past, as we have done others of ours, and say a word, a very simple phrase: "Kill was wrong". And from there the path of understanding will be much easier.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. EH Collector, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u64	I repeat, Mr. Pastor: I do not know whether we are to be found in words, whether we can find actions. I said I took this initiative as an outcast, and I confirm that, because I think it was proposed to make it difficult. As a matter of fact, when he introduced himself, I thought that an act of Maneiro's manufacture was an initiative. I thought it might be possible forUPyD to present such an enterprise, and therefore I think it ought to be considered as a past initiative, because such attitudes are also past those who have brought them into this parliament. Mr. Iturate used to say that he felt insulted. And I remember how this controversy ended. I suppose it is not necessary to suppose the truth to be an insult, and I speak of it. Here we talked about a list which Mr. Savage had read, and I can read another list, for that purpose there are listings. You've put the power to memory and partnership, so I'll put it on. But this had a precedent and that precedent was pioncia de víctimas de la violencia, 2000. What was done in November, I think, at that time was the head of the House of Human Rights, at the time when the President was at Irbarche. And in this report, there are two listings that are made by Red Munch. In heading 11 we can read: "All victims, listed Basque Government". There is a first list, victims of ETA; there is a second list, victims of armed military groups, social groups, and unknown perpetrators. He might be tempted, following what Basagoiti did, to read the list on this list, all the seats on this list proposed by the Basque Government. However, I refer you to this report, I refer you to a report in which there are certainly people who were alive before the actions of the State Security Forces, police or paramilitary groups, and who after that operation could no longer enjoy the right to life because they were dead. I think Mr. Ocera had reference to this. I think this was what he had in mind because he said those words. But I believe that you have, too, confirmed the concept "other victims" when you use the concept, or when you use the word or conception of "the victims of police abuse." I thought, from our point of view, that the terms or concepts, which are quite decriminal, but which, in a certain way, you were considering, may perhaps be considered an impulse to say a single word about it today. We have tools, we are building them, I still think in a very imperfect way, with which to reveal the whole truth, so that we can make a story about the whole truth; a story you know, a story you recognize, and a story you notice. But we can't do that story by sitting or building it or building it on falsehoods, on voids, on cases without investigating or on cases without clarifying. I demand the right of every victim, regardless of his or her violation of human rights, to have recognition and reparation, because I consider that every case is one, every circumstance is unrepeatable, it is an absolute for that person who suffers it, whatever, as I say, the circumstances, whatever the perpetrator. And we also demand respect for freedom of expression, because, as has been said here today, there are some things that seem impossible to say, and the bad thing is that it is literal. Depending on what is said, criminalization initiatives are immediately going to take place, the criminalization of exaltation is going to be invoked, or perhaps be involved in these new hate crimes that they now want to bring. We demand in our amendment, and we will do so henceforth, all the freedom of expression, all the truth, on which we can establish a narrative with attachment to the truth and with attachment to a logic of "never again". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr Martínnez, okay? Word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u66	Mrs Llanos, if, as you say, you have never had a problem in recognizing all the victims, you have your party, especially the Government of the State, a lot of tools available to legislate for the recognition of these victims. But, well, I will refer more to the words you have addressed to the speakers and to the amendments that have been tabled. I do not think that today is a question of lukewarmness or lack of content. I think today is a matter of wisdom. It is a question of whether, however painful, they are, or condemnable, or of disagreement with Mr Otegi's words, it is not acceptable that the words of a political representative who is not even represented in this House should come here to be debated, and above all to be debated for a very specific reason, which is to make a speech in front of his gallery and the construction of a story that is the same and not the shared. For for the construction of this shared account, as I said before, we have equipped ourselves with tools such as the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence, in which, I reiterate, I invite you to participate, because we have no one left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u67	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u68	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. Mrs Llanos, you said you did not understand why the PNV cannot stand in favour of Ertzaintza and against Arnaldo Otegi's statements supporting his non-law proposal. I think your problem, Mrs. Llanos, isn't that you don't understand. His problem is that he doesn't listen, his problem is that he doesn't listen, his problem is that he doesn't want to listen. Because what you don't want is for the reality, the silly reality, to spoil the prejudices you have, the previous judgments that allow you to maintain a determined political strategy. Because we, myself today, and the Nationalist Party for ever, and the lehendakari for ever, have stood in favour of Ertzaintza, in favour of human rights, in favour of the freedoms of all people in this country and against ETA. And we've always done it. And we have done so, as I said, in defense of Ertzaintza and against ETA. So, it's not that you don't understand. The problem is that you don't answer, and that's how hard it is for us to move forward, if we don't listen. It is the first premise to be able to come to mind, Mrs Llanos: to listen. And Mr. Azuga is talking about the reports of fun, and those records are the type of the attitude of the "Maddin" and "Eudal Party", the model of the position of human rights in the engagement of human rights-more than anything else, that human rights will always be the direction of the Eudolizer and Eudolski. The baker, Mr. Arzugaga, did not refer this report to it, or even to thought, when he made his observations, he did not then make any distinction, nor did he make any conciliation. No. The baker did another thing, which he has often done: they put everything in the same bag, the victims and the victim, all that had happened, as if it were all the same. And for what? To justify his past and his left patriot's past, to justify it. The Ertzaintza has given you, has given Mr Otegi and you, many lessons. Suddenly, fifteen ertzainas murdered by ETA in the face of the silence, still today, of much of the left abertzale and also of Mr Otegi. And that is a task that we have to face and which we will also have to face from the presentation of memory and coexistence in this Parliament. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u69	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u70	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the full order of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the east, 37; the contrary, 9; the whites, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u71	So it's been accepted to the entire Euskal Socialists' correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull up the proposition as parlamentary teams, concerning the machistic violence to disappear from our society. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Houseland, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u72	Thank you. It's been almost a year since Gasteno's "11 attack, 12 response. Vuestras ambraciots tenedran respusta, ever since we met with thousands of feminists. Thousands of people came out into the street to denounce the integrated vision of machista violence, but above all, to show that the feminist movement is here and is ready to work. They said: "We are neither victims nor passive persons, but the leading men of our life. We are the political subjects who have the right influence on the social transformation of our reality. It is time to arrive at the heart of the problem, the time to take commitments, to transform a system that avoids the luxist violence, and places women in a state of dependence. We know what its origins are, and we are ready to face them." These people, these teams, these are what we need. The people in the street, who defend women who have suffered violence in the daily courts of justice, who work early in the artery, who give or have received feministic lectures of autodefensa feminis, who have been unable to resist an attack received on the street, or who have been forced to resist it, and who have managed to resist it, organized and working, and practised, women's associations. We need all of them. Thanks to the feminist struggle for years, we women have gone to acquire basic rights for women. Now, the women of the Basque Country and of the Great World are still second citizens, because we have no chance of doing all rights by equality. The data is huge. If we look at the rations, it's about 11 a day in the Basque Country-the one who's making up his mind to report that he's a minority. If we look at sexual harassment, we know that more than half the women in Europe have suffered sexual harassment: 100 million women at work. If we look at a woman who's being attacked from 15 seconds, a woman is being attacked in the world. "Cada quince seconds, una mujer está siendo agredida: one... [[15 seconds]] bi. In this speech, sixty women have been assaulted. We are not at present free enough to determine what we want to do with our body, sexuality, or reproduction. The right of enjoying the public is also violated by the danger of being attacked in it. Living a life without violence for the mere fact of being a woman becomes a utopia for many still. This is why we feel that an archticulation of proclamations is absolutely necessary to overcome this present example. Thus we believe that the feminist proclamation must be a tool for all other claims. We are aware that the improvement of material conditions, even assuming a great advance, does not end the macho violence. We know that there are powerful socialization mechanisms, such as educational institutions, the media, the family, religions, and also an ideology of romantic love that functions as a roller of differentiation and inequality, which pushes women to self-denial, encourages them to enter or remain in unsatisfactory relationships, feels less if they don't have a partner, or choose the idea that it is better to have one, even if it is harmful, than not to have one. If the political leaders and institutions really committed themselves (we would commit ourselves) in a real and structural way to the fight against equality, it would not continue to be understood even today, despite the speeches, that the macho violence is mainly explained by personal causes and not by social causes. Law Honen Prozesua Izan dadila bide honetan urratsak egiteko tresna éta bidea. The fact that we have more than once remarked in this law, that we have an integrated point of view, in what manner we call violence, leads us from our examination to the necessity of making several modes and analyses. Women in the house, in the street, suffer various kinds of violence from men, who are coupled, father, master, co-workers, teachers, or wholly unknown persons. But those who resist the biological structure of their bodies and oppose their sexual exportation to the order of the system (transexal, lesbians) suffer violence. For violence is concerned with punishing the men who make the reorganization of woman and man. He who doubts the order of hegemony tries to re-enter the road. So far as violence is not an exceptional event, and as we live in our daily life, it is a first-class problem for us, and thus we have seen it in the agreement we have obtained. It's not a real problem. The other thing is, that as far as we have grown up with it, we are often unable to recognize this machista of violence, which is natural and normal to us, we ourselves are often in trouble to identify the violence which lies behind these forms and forms. And yet, in a great measure, it is this machista of violence which remains concealed, and which we must reveal, that it does not affect the private sphere at all. And we hope that the law that will work on it will be midside, thanks to the support of all of us. Besides the difference and the neglect of sex, as I mentioned, there are other factors (class, age, functional débertsity, race, etc.), which produce many kinds of discriminations. The object, therefore, is not so much to be dissolved as to know how the other factors of oppression are crossed. In short, the aim is to make a complex survey of social reality, and to design and place politics in public hands. It is important to mention again that when we refer to macho violence we are referring to direct violence, which is the most easily recognizable form of violence (physical and emotional harm); structural violence, which is reflected in injustice and inequality, as a result of the social structure itself (in this sense, we can talk about economic precariousness, which we were talking about two weeks ago, about the feminization of poverty, which we have been talking about today...), which is generally one of the main obstacles for many women to be able to get out of the situation of macho violence in which they find themselves, establishing a clear case of structural violence. Or, thirdly, cultural or symbolic violence, which is the one that justifies, legitimizes and makes possible the existence of direct and structural violence, to the extent that they make them interpreted, consciously or unconsciously, as just, necessary or inevitable. We want to be able to make sure that we can't stay quiet in front of this situation. It's time to pass from words to actions. And in response to our political concern, we presented an initiative, which was set up as the primary political problem of machista violence. To face silence, at first we proposed to form a power in the legislature, to give this important matter political centralization, and to live a life without machinative violence. When we received the corrections of all the teams, we saw there that the other members, except Podemos, did not see the need or need of a special committee. It was important to us, because at the foundation of the law, we were talking about all that at the time, because in these days we saw that there was to be an analysis that had to be made in advance, as we said at first, with feminist movements, with people working on the street. However, it is more important for us than the power itself, than where, with whom and how, we do it, and this is what we have placed in the centre. And we put the negotiation point in expanding a space that will take care of itself and we've come to an agreement between us all. It fills us with joy, because we think it was important: more than where we'd do it with and with. And it was nice to all of us to agree on that. We shall therefore stand before a law process which will listen to experts and to their industry, and promote their participation. We think it's built on strong columns. We may believe that more than in victims, the foundation will be fixed in power, and that it will be integrated, and we are very glad of it. However, we shall have to see what the process itself gives, and what course it takes. And we believe that this space for the dialogue we have marked for it, and for the control of it, is an extraordinary conversation between the legislature and those who are developing the law, for we believe that we shall have more facility of advancing each other by inquiry. Because this people need it, because we owe it to the people and women on the way to a free society, to a violent silence and to an accomplice, to a painful silence, to the action and to the feminist union. We want a new world and we can't leave it in a world without a maxism, living in a world free from the patrician who despises, despises, and rapes us. We want to live life worth living. Life is what we want to multiply, not capital, we want to decide our own path, not what they impose on us, and we can't stay still for that. Let's keep going. Let's get back to work. And thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. The turn of the groups that issued the corrections: Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning again. We've come to an important arrangement. And I'd insist that all of us, all of us, have done our best, and special efforts to get to this agreement. And besides, I'd insist on this arrangement the week we met our new victims. We think that reflection is convenient and that we must do it, that we must see in all institutions and districts the legal frame we have established, and that, according to this reflection, we must promote new measures in all the institutions. We address a subject of enormous significance in a tragic week, in which we have met new victims of gender-based violence. The balance sheet, of course, does not call for optimism at all, and it is necessary to open up a reflection on this matter, as I say, unfortunately topical, on the basis of the latest data and the latest victims of gender-based violence, gender-based violence. There is no doubt that a reflection on the existing legal framework, a reflection on the 2004 Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, and also a reflection on all the measures to be agreed from the different public institutions, with an assessment of the measures already implemented, in order to be able to establish new measures in the future. I would like to remark on this subject that the agreement signed by all parties in the state is to face the woman's violence, and that in Congress a special committee has been created and that the commission will have a detailed report. On this subject I did wish to underline the agreement reached, the pact of State reached following an initiative in the Congress of Deputies of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, through which it has been possible to reach an agreement for work to be started in a subcommission in the Congress of Deputies, with the participation of sixty experts, who will finish their work and their conclusions by March. We think, in order to examine this subject, that we ought to consider the grounds, the answers, the measures established, the services, and, as I have said, the evaluation. I believe that different aspects of addressing gender-based violence need to be addressed. One of them is undoubtedly the causes of gender discrimination. Another is the responses, the measures, the services that are put in place from the different institutions. Another area in which we certainly believe we need to continue to influence – because it is certainly not enough with what is being done – is the education of children regarding equality. Also the scope of awareness-raising campaigns. Another aspect that must undoubtedly be addressed, also in view of the dramatic news that we are seeing of victims of gender-based violence, is greater protection and greater security measures in all that has to do with the formulation of women who dare to submit and who are ultimately encouraged to submit a complaint, so that these complaints are well formulated and not archived. Also a specific intervention with women who withdraw a complaint once filed, who are 15%, and also give personalized attention to these women. There is no doubt that this comprehensive attention must be emphasized in the various areas, and also in one of the issues on which it is going to be emphasized and the agreement reached unanimously in the Congress of Deputies following the initiative of the People's Party and in the Socialist Party: to repair the damage suffered by orphans. Madam of Houses mentioned the question of pomp, that it was her intention to form a ponciferation in the legislature. I've talked to him about this subject, and I've told him that in the eighth law there was a power in this Chamber. We had a passionate debate, and there were several occurrences, which, according to the fact, this power produced a few conclusions, and all these conclusions were tried in the legislature with one mouth. In addressing this initiative put forward by EH Bildu to us, it seemed appropriate to emphasize two issues, especially considering that we had had a ruling in this House, from the previous legislature, an agreement dated 27 November 2014, which is to assess the effectiveness and scope of existing resources and programmes, and also to urge the Basque Government to refer a bill against gender-based violence, taking further into account... kontuan izanik lehendakariak berak berak aipamen aipamen berzi bat egin zuela gai honi buruz. That is why I would like to say that the agreement reached is certainly positive, especially since the demands and proposals put forward by the People's Party have been taken up. The results of the ongoing evaluation of care for women victims, which is carried out in response to the Equality Act in force in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and also in line with the debate that was held two weeks ago in another ordinary session, two Thursdays ago, specifically, to urge the Executive to include in its legislative timetable a draft law for referral to this House, as far as possible, as soon as possible. I would remark that the agreement is a good one, and that in this matter we insist on being loved again, and that we expect in this case to fulfil all these obligations as soon as possible. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u75	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u76	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. In Elkarrekin We can welcome all parliamentary initiatives aimed at sexist violence, as we are fully convinced that sexist violence must be one of the social problems of this Parliament's priority, and as such we must be concerned and concerned about our daily work. In the last four days, five women have died at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. Last weekend two women (a 16-year-old and a young girl) filed complaints of sexual assaults in Toulouse and Durango, respectively. Once again, the message for young women, adolescents, families and society as a whole is that enjoying freedom and without fear is not a right of women. As Mrs Etxebarrieta rightly said, every fifteen seconds a woman suffers from sexist violence. But, we insist, the street, the night, the party are also women's, they are also ours, and from Elkarrekin We can work and we will continue to work to promote, promote and support all initiatives that contribute to the prevention and eradication of all sexist violence. It is the responsibility of the entire State, it is the responsibility of the Government, this Government, Parliament and the judiciary. Violence is preventable; every act of macho violence must challenge us, it must challenge each of you, each of us, in our role and competence, whatever the subject we are dealing with. Because violence against women is exercised in every space of our lives. All of them. And, as I said, this is a matter – don't forget – of everyone. In this house in recent days we have had the opportunity to exchange, analyze, think and rethink around a parliamentary initiative that proposed the creation of a paper for the study of current policies in relation to macho violence. Today we come to the plenary with another proposal which, from our point of view, has little to do with it, but which, as in the plenary on 9 February, draws up a scenario in which we find that there is a consensus on the need to review, deepen and update policies and the regulatory framework relating to machist violence. However, in terms of updating paradigms, how and with whom to carry out the process, it has cost us a lot and it has cost us a lot to reach agreements. More than ten years ago, the Law on Equality of Women and Men and the Law on Gender-Based Violence, two milestones in our legislation, two legal instruments of enormous value and progress in the recognition of women's rights, were adopted. Fortunately, thanks to the dedicated and committed work of so many professionals, institutions, women's organizations and feminists, we know more and better about the phenomenon of sexist violence, about its multiple edges and manifestations. We have more data, more experience in approach and regulation here and in other countries. We have an effervescent feminist movement, active in the street and in the academy, which is in constant reflection and construction of knowledge and proposals and to which we must listen. In Elkarrekin We can strongly refuse to exclude this accumulated wealth of years of experience and knowledge from any process. We will promote changes based on responsible processes and comprehensive agreements, always (I repeat, always) ensuring the active and real participation of all social, political, trade union, public and private actors. We understand that this is the only way forward in a comprehensive regulation and that it commits us to the whole of society. With regard to what we are discussing here today, we agree with the updating of existing tools, such as the II Interinstitutional Agreement on improving care for women victims of domestic violence and sexual violence, and the adequacy of existing protocols. We also welcome and welcome the proposed analysis of the results of the ongoing evaluation in response to Law 4/2005, with a view to identifying aspects that require new responses in the care system. I'd miss more! And we hope they've been doing so far. And what to say about the search for the proper formulation of a law, since from Elkarrekin We can consider it urgent and necessary, so we agree. We imagine the Government's effort to incorporate methodologies that allow the participation of different sectors, contributing to social awareness, and we hope that it will be alongside the feminist movement. However, while voting in favour, we have serious doubts about the paradigms, how and with whom they intend to conduct these processes. Today's transaction proposes the analysis and evaluation, limited to the categories of domestic abuse and sexual violence, which, while in accordance with current regulations, are clearly reduced, insufficient to account for the complexity of the phenomenon and the multiple edges of this problem. Indeed, we would be left behind by those countries that have made qualitative leaps in their comprehensive policies, both in their objectives, in the measures proposed, in participation, and in the understanding and description of all forms of violence. We would like to talk and discuss the workspace. Are they asking us that it would be only the follow-up committee, which has set up a minimum of two regular meetings per year, of which on the Emakunde page we do not have the annual monitoring and evaluation report since 2009? I haven't been able to find any more reports – which may be – but I don't think it's collected. Do you really believe that it is space, the only appropriate space to promote a participatory methodology with the aim of evaluating policies and drafting a law? And if we talk to whom, in this case, we do not want participation in raising awareness, as proposed in the third point of the amendment. From Elkarrekin We want a participation of women, men, organizations, networks, unions with recognized careers, with voice and with vote, of course, to evaluate policies and formulate a law. The follow-up committee mentioned in the agreement reached and which we are debating here today is composed of a vote and a vote only by the authorities of the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Basque Government, the deputies, Eudel, the Basque Bar Council and the Basque Medical Council. It is not seen as the work space we need for the real participation of the feminist movement, professionals of social intervention or experts in the field. I may not have read the report correctly, but I think it's going that way. We believe that this space is insufficient. Yes, it's necessary, but not enough. For all this, and even voting in favour, we will continue to work for all those who have so much to say about sexist violence, how to prevent, how to deal with it, how to protect, how to fix it. Because they are essential for developing a regulation that responds to the challenges of today's reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. At this point in plenary we are discussing an initiative by the EH Bildu group on the elimination of male-based violence in our society. The numbers of murders of gender-based violence are chilling. We've had sixteen victims this year, six victims in the last four days. We have had 25% more victims in two months than last year's total. I firmly believe that, if there is a matter on which all parties agree, it is one day to achieve the elimination of gender-based violence in our society. The will of all the political parties in this House and of the Basque Government to combat this social scourge cannot be called into question. That's a reality. That is why my group, the Basque Socialists, also believe that, if there is one thing we must be able to do for all the political groups, it is to seek as much consensus as possible in order to carry out initiatives in this Parliament that go in this direction. And that is why I am very pleased, too, at the point we are discussing today, that we have been able to reach consensus among all the political groups for this compromise amendment to be adopted today. And although it has been signed by the Basque Nationalist groups, Basque Socialists, EH Bildu and Podemos, the People's Group will also vote in favour, although it has not signed it. But we have all worked together to draft the final compromise amendment. It calls on the Basque Parliament to carry out a working process enabling, within the framework of the follow-up committee to the II Interinstitutional Agreement on improving the care of women victims of domestic violence and sexual violence, an update of that agreement, including, inter alia, the adequacy of protocols. A question that was also asked, albeit with another wording, in the original initiative. Secondly, to analyse the results of this continuous evaluation of the care of women victims in response to Law 4/2005, in addition to those resulting from the contrast of international standards of quality in the care of victims of violence against women in the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to identify the aspects that require new responses in the care system. Thirdly, that the Government should include in its legislative timetable the law on the eradication of violence against women, and that it should also give priority to it. And that they be used in the same methodologies that allow the participation of different sectors, contributing to the social awareness about this problem. The drafting of this law on violence against women is a commitment contained in the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which demonstrates the importance of this matter for the two groups of the Government. And if the government prepares the draft of this law soon we can have this draft in this House, and after its entry into Parliament any appearances that are deemed necessary would be requested and a presentation for the debate on the amendments would be created. That is why we do not now see it necessary to create this paper at this time. This initiative, identical, was presented at the plenary session on 27 November 2014. The Basque Socialist, Basque Nationalist, Basque Popular and UPyD parliamentary groups did not agree with the presentation of this initiative by the EH Bildu group and we did not think it necessary to create the paper at the time, and we signed a compromise amendment urging Emakunde to continue to assess the effectiveness and scope of existing resources and programmes in the Autonomous Community on violence against women, as well as to carry out an analysis, from a comprehensive perspective, of current policies against violence against women and propose appropriate measures to respond to the identified needs. Important analysis, before addressing the elaboration of this law here. The Basque Parliament was also urged to step up coordination between the various departments in the area of equality and against violence against women, as well as to cooperate with the different administrations, associations and institutions working in this field. Work has continued on this. Then we do not consider the creation of the paper necessary, because, as has been said, there was already a paper in the eighth legislature, and now neither. Violence against women is recognized in the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, better known as the Istanbul Convention, signed on 11 May 2011 and which entered into force in Spain on 1 August 2014. And this violence is seen as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination, holding states accountable if they do not respond adequately. This convention is the first binding instrument at European level on violence against women and domestic violence, being the most comprehensive international treaty to address this serious human rights violation, establishing zero tolerance for violence against women. The foundations of this convention are: preventing violence and protecting victims; sensitizing society to change attitudes and breaking the culture of tolerance and denial that perpetuates gender inequality and the violence that causes it; stressing the importance of coordinated action by all relevant official bodies and services and civil society; and the importance of collecting statistical and research data on all forms of violence against women. It coincides with the ten years in force in Spain of Law 1/2004 on Measures for the Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, a law approved by a socialist and pioneering government, which marked a time before and a time after the fight against gender-based violence in our country. But at present, although we have taken important steps, there are worrying data. We are concerned about the reduction in the number of complaints, the increase in the number of women who give up in the middle of the judicial process, and the growth of judicial decisions on filing complaints and refusing protection orders. Much remains to be done; this reality shows it. And I would like to highlight a point contained in the Istanbul Convention, which points out that legal and real equality is the key element in preventing violence against women, and links inequality and violence. This is important to take into account, given that in Spain in recent years there have been significant cuts in budgets, both in policies of equality (around 23%) and in policies of gender-based violence (about 49%). In the autonomous communities as a whole, the budget allocated to them has been reduced by about 32%. Only the Basque Country and Andalusia have maintained a budget without cuts, and that must be put into value. We need to be aware that the reality of iure and fact or of equality between women and men is a key element in preventing violence against women, and we need to continue working not to go, in terms of equality, backwards and not forwards. That is why I consider the compromise amendment that we have reached today to be important, and that there should be consensus on this issue among all the parliamentary groups in the House. We have before us an important challenge: the adoption of a law on violence against women in our Autonomous Community, taking into account the developments that have taken place in recent years and the foundations of the Istanbul Convention. And it would be good if it were done with the greatest possible consensus, in order to obtain as soon as possible a law that would improve the results obtained in the area of violence against women. We have made an effort to bring all the political groups closer together in this compromise amendment, and we have achieved a good compromise amendment. All these measures are also important and fundamental to progress in the fight against gender-based violence, and I am glad that the compromise that we are going to adopt today will improve the initial proposal. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u79	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. The chief of the department. In the same place, as has been said, we discussed another proposition with the same title as EH collected three years ago. There is no longer a party of the political parties who took part in it, but among us, and which was not then, and which did not exist, is now between us in this legislature. The representatives of several parties were the same, Mrs Garrido will remember, and, on the other hand, the representatives of other parties are new, you are new. It's no small challenge, no, no, to destroy violence from our society. This is the only proposal proposed by the EH Collectation to-day, and how not to make this wish a demand, and how not to make this demand a reality. We all share in this room, and I dare say that our society, as a whole, would confirm it. Unfortunately, it's not easy. It's not just a dream that can be filled with will or application. As I have said, I should like to begin by repeating the same words, which at the beginning of my participation three years ago, very briefly. Why? I'm afraid the situation hasn't changed. If it were so easy, or if EH Collect would be enough with what the party proposed, how good it would be! But things, as we know, do not change from day to day. On this subject, I repeat, it is absolutely necessary to change the value which is founded upon violence against women, and which they maintain. The sexist attacks and attitudes are not isolated actions; quite the contrary. The violence against women is a part of the system which enables them from infancy and life, and opposes the security, freedom, and ability of women. Between us, unfortunately, in our society there are still attitudes and attitudes which allow and tolerate such propensities. The principle of equality is that of all violence towards women, and therefore that violent struggle against this violence must necessarily be connected with a profound change of worth. And that's what we're working on. Not only in this law: We've been working on this hard, hard work to get equality between men and women for years. We have sometimes been a pioneer and an example. So in the middle of the day, we don't do miracles. We only take a step forward on this long journey, because there is no miracle in the handling of the matter, unfortunately. So, three years ago, we agreed on a medium, and it looks like it's going to be this time. It is truly grateful that every group has the presbytery of its own, and that its mistrust and disdain for each of them should have given way to it, and acquired that ability to unite its forces. It's really praiseworthy and ungrateful. A few weeks ago, as I said, we were engaged in violence, this matter we have in our hands requires strong consent; it is necessary that the legislature should be directed by the government, and sent over to the whole society. I should like, therefore, to make some allusions about the medium agreed upon, because the points I have received are, I think, of their importance. First of all, the Basque Bill asks the Red People to do a work process, which will enable them to help the victims of bad trades and sexual affairs in a better way. to update this agreement, to make the other appropriate protocols. I would like you to explain what this organizational agreement is doing, to make a small mention of it, because I think his work is not very popular, and it seems to me quite remarkable. The object of this agreement is the co-ordination of the institutions which work in helping women who are the victims of bad deals in the Euscal Autonomia Erria, so that these women are protected and protected in several ways: in the field of health, in the police, in the judicial and in the social world. There's a lot of departments that participate in that board. Mme. Arana has mentioned them, but I should like to remark, that all this is co-ordinated by the gift, and that she receives the contribution of the representatives of the women's associations, and that they are led to this committee, so that they have a voice there. Akordio horren jarraipen-batzordea azkenengoz 2016ko ekainaren 14an bildu zen. And, as I said, this last meeting raised the need for a third interinstitutional agreement. Therefore, among the challenges and commitments for this next parliamentary term was to achieve this agreement (something that represents a project of great magnitude and contrast, impossible to address in a short time, but that will be done in this exercise), which would pick up new priorities, guidelines of action and approach. This new political framework would have to be adapted, both politically and technically, to incorporate approaches and obligations arising from the current international, European and State regulations, and thus to update general principles and protocols. It is also necessary to give visibility to children who are victims of violence. Come on, that a work of reflection coordinated from Emakunde and that, as reflected in the fourth point of the transactional amendment, will be able to give voice, through a participatory process, not only to the institutions involved, but also to the experts and experts in the field and the associative movement, as was done with the revision of the Equality Act 2005 in the last legislature. In addition, Emakunde undertakes to report to Parliament on the work he is doing on this subject, something he has also been doing with each of the programmes and actions that are being implemented from his leadership. And taking advantage of this moment, then, I would like to thank you, as there are many requests for attendance that you receive and always find a gap as quickly as possible to answer the doubts and questions that we from the parliamentary groups question. So I take advantage of the space to always thank you for that work. Therefore, returning to the agreement, the interesting thing about this process is that this analysis will serve as a diagnosis and basis for the elaboration of the future bill for the eradication of violence against women, so we understand that it is a work of deep reflection and much needed. That is why we do not see any need for the creation of the paper, since this whole process was already under way, so I really thank Mrs Etxebarrieta for the way she has had to reflect and to be able to give her a twist. Because, after all, what is really important is not the way, but the what. It also contains the transactional in its second point that will analyze the results of ongoing evaluations of care for women victims that are made in response to the law... Well, it's a very extensive point, that Mrs. Arana has also repeated. I have been reviewing the participation of the law which has passed during these days, and I have lost the question how many times it has come to the Committee of Equality, as I have said before. Yes, for the equality of women and men, V. To present the plan, and then explain the progress of the public powers to develop and establish it, the introduction of all the new actions received on the planet, and the following continued... I'd like you to emphasize this. Miss Arana said: "Well, si no sleep there," he said to his mouth, "there's no sleep in it." Sleep there, and sleep a seguir seed. And not only the Election, but also the occurrences of the chief divisions of the several sects of the same departments, have been spoken of in this matter: they have appeared more than once to present themselves to the actions, to give them data, for it is necessary to present and examine them in the way of a constant improvement, and so to continue. The importance of receiving them in the middle of the road. As you can see, it's a medium of commitment. Yet, I think, the realist, the party, what they have said, the several agents are about to cooperate. You will forgive me, Miss Arana, but you have half-laughed or quoted the points you received in the middle, and, in fact, I don't think it's a joke. It's serious. All the points received in this medium must have been admitted, and they are the contributions made by different groups. So it's not a joke. This is a position of agreement, and I see the important one, and, moreover, it is full of commitments: strong commitments, which hitherto the Government has fulfilled and will continue to fulfil. At the beginning, as I said before, to end the game, Mme. When we talk about violence, the facts are not what we would like, they are explained. We have a great deal to do, with government, in general, in the possibility of women, in education, in communication, in the practice of sensibilization, prevention, and in the service of attention. So we have to make a call for each other. To make such firm agreements as this together. In the interaction of departments, in the international organization, in association with association, let's continue the course. And for this government, this subject...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u82	... It's nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u83	Passing the answers, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u84	Thank you. On the one hand there have been various allusions, and to which they were sought to answer or contribute. Mrs Garrido has mentioned that the effects of the crime done are received, and I think it is important to remark that we do not proceed from zero, and that such things must be considered at the time of the law. I think it's important to notice such a thing and consider it, so that we don't forget what has been done before. Because we don't start from scratch, because it doesn't start from a feminist move, not even at the Election itself. I think it's done a lot of work, and that's why, while we talked about the special committee, it was also like a space to collect all that we've done, but it'll take another way. In the development of the law, in this particular process, we see that there will be time for this kind of desktop. On the other hand, Mme. Aranna, Mrs. Arrivalga, has been talking about the interinsitational agreement. It's true that when we were doing this job, we didn't know it, and I think, as I told you in his own time, it's a shame not to know the work he's doing, because they were doing something interesting in it. And that's why we've brought him in to know how much he's making the importance of being a larger company of information, so that we don't have to work twice or thrice the same. But what I think is that this interinciative agreement has a way and that the law has a way and that we can feed each other there, but that it's important that everyone has his own way. Mrs. Sánchez mentioned that in the previous legislation we had brought the same proposition, and that in her time she preferred to appeal to another way. But at that moment we were informed that if we were to reassign, you'd vote for it. Well, I think the times change, and it's a sign that we've been able to reach another point, and that's why we introduced it again as it was. And it is true that we introduced this before the agreement made by PSE and EAJ. Then the moments change, but we've arrived at another point. I think the agreement you made is important, too. And, to finish, I just mean, we have a lot of work to do, this is just beginning. I do not doubt that we shall meet on several subjects, and that sometimes we will not agree, but we shall have a long, difficult way to cooperate. Yeah, well, let's hope it's productive. And what we're going to do here, in the street, with feminist movement, with the results, with different institutions, will be quite ready to get started. We, at least, will readily succeed in collecting the Basque People, because it is a matter of great importance, because there is an application, and because there is time in four years that we must not repeat them again. So thank you again. And we will go on our way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Podemos shouldn't have a word with him. ? Yeah? The plum? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u86	Mrs. Arrizabalaga, it's not laughter, it's irony. But for the obvious of what is raised at that point, really. Let's all be a little more serious. I repeat, the follow-up committee mentioned in the agreement reached today is composed with a voice and vote only by certain authorities, it does not represent everything. What's important? Yeah, but it's not the only thing that matters. Sincerely, and even voting in favour, what alerts us, what has left us somewhat perplexed is the insistence on the part of the political forces that make up the Government not to want or hear about the creation of a committee or a paper. We are shocked, and very shocked, that they do not want to create a space for work, debate, listening and reflection so that the sexist violence professionals, so that the women who have suffered it, so that the young women who suffer and feel it day by day, so that the judges, lawyers, health professionals, social agents, feminist movement, pass through this Parliament to tell us their views, their concerns, their knowledge... I do not understand, I repeat, that we do not want to listen to all these people and that we do not want to discuss here, for example, terminology, which is very important. It is not the same gender-based violence as talking about machist violence, in plural. And do you know why this terminology has started to be used? I explain it to you: because women suffer multiple forms of violence in each of the spaces we live and transit, and also because it is a demand of the feminist movement, who are demanding it from us. If we do not listen to them, it is impossible that we can make a law that has the consensus of all citizens. It is also necessary to discuss what this law needs to be collected and on what basis, and for that, I insist, it is important to open the debate to society through a special presentation or commission. And you, we don't know very well why, you don't want to hear about it. In short, a social and political consensus is needed, and this law must be participatory, and all social, political, trade union, public and private actors must pass through this Parliament. And above all it is necessary to count on us women, those who suffer the Machist violence resulting from this heteropatriarchal system that invisibles us, deprives us of freedom, and sometimes, in too many, kills us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u88	Yes, from the seat briefly. Well, Mrs. Etxebarrieta, I think we've made an important effort. The compromise amendment is much more complete than the original initiative. I have explained the reasons why I did not see the presentation, and right now, as you have rightly said, the situation is obviously different too. We are at the door of the beginning of a law on violence against women within our Autonomous Community, and we also have all the work collected and to be carried out in the interinstitutional agreement. They will also be able to participate in the various associations and collectives interlinked with day-to-day work in the fight against violence against women. And I therefore believe that the steps to be taken are well reflected in the compromise amendment, and I believe that we have done an important job in reaching the completion and conclusion of this amendment. And I believe that, in addition, in the area of combating violence against women, we must interfere with society as a whole. We have to be there for both women and men, defending the approaches to equality between men and women, because, as I have said, that inequality is the first that affects and directly affects, because it is interlinked with violence against women. I would simply like to thank everyone for the effort we have all made and for the compromise amendment that we have reached, because it is positive. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u89	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And finally, Mrs. Arri generousga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u90	Thank you, Chief. I'll take part in the seat. I didn't mean to interrupt you on the second round, but I'd like to give Mrs. Arana an answer. From my mouth you will not have heard that I flatly reject any creation of a commission and a paper. I certainly didn't say it here at any time. What I said was that we were more on another line, rather than the creation of the paper, and that is what I explained to Mrs Etxebarrieta. And I don't know if you've got it right. And it is that this work that Mrs Etxebarrieta intended to be done within the presentation is already being carried out within what is the framework of the second agreement... Yeah, yeah. Yes, because it is adopted on June 14, 2016 (we have had the interim of the elections, and we have put it into effect), the mandate of the lehendakari himself so that it is Emakunde who coordinates it, and the commitment of Emakunde, which is reflected in this own transactional, that he will also do so following a participatory process, where will accommodate all the associative movement that you have commented. That on the one hand. That, that work, that diagnosis, that analysis will serve as the basis for the elaboration of the law. And during the process and drafting of the law all the agents (unions...) that you have commented on, all the agents involved in the subject will come to this Parliament to make the contributions that they think are appropriate, to give their opinion. All those who you and all the groups request will come. Don't worry, there's no problem. But, of course, from my mouth you have not heard on this stand, nor in this room, saying that we are basically refusing them to come, or that we are against this committee. The only thing we have said is that what is not to be done is to duplicate efforts and work. Because what the agreement is doing and what can be done within the framework of the agreement... What we are not going to do is create a paper to do the same, when, above all, what the agreement has begun to do, what has begun to work, is going to develop much further, contemplating everything that the groups wanted, which is that there is more participation. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. We're going to vote for EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, the half-correction which Podemos and Euzers have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u92	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Popular Groups, about to present a new state to the Basque host. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, who is the representative of the Potion of the Basque Groups, has the word to present and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting an initiative on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party which refers to the hospitality sector. And our initiative is to give the hospitality sector a specific entity and relevance in the action of the Basque Government, which we understand from the People's Group that it must have its reflection and visibility in the structure of the Government itself. The activities of hospitality, catering and the like, in the new Tourism Law adopted in July 2016, were excluded as tourist activity, so their qualification, which was contained in the previous Tourism Ordering Act of 1994, was somehow annulled. This excusion of the tourism hospitality sector leaves the sector in a kind of regulatory limbo. And from the People's Group we have very clearly the very important importance that the hospitality sector has in the Basque Autonomous Community and in our towns and cities, forming part of the social fabric of the urban cores, and that, in addition to the relevant contribution that it represents to tourism GDP, contributes to value our local products and continue to project our gastronomy around the world. For all this, we understood from the People's Group that it was necessary to give a new status to the hospitality sector of the Basque Country, to make visible the hospitality in the structure of the Government. Something promised to them by the previous Government but which seems to have been forgotten when it came to forming the new Government. We proposed that the Basque Government should set up, within the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, a vice-counsel for tourism, commerce and hospitality. And when this request was forwarded to the Government, it seems that a vice-counsel in those terms would involve extending a hospitality address, and this was not accepted. In the end, the Government agreed that the Tourism Directorate should expand its scope and be the tourism and hospitality directorate. The hotel sector is satisfied, because in some way they have been fulfilled or reflected in this direction, and, although they are not a tourist activity, they are within the action of tourism and close to trade, both of which are the embryo of the urban cores of our towns and cities. As I said, with this initiative we make the hospitality visible in the structure of the Government. And from the People's Group we are aware that there is much to be done to encourage the establishment of a strong sector in the Autonomous Community to play in the league first. Because this very morning I was watching the Diario de Gastronomía, and I was saying that 2016 is the year of recovery of the hospitality. The turnover of the hotel has grown strongly in 2016, with an average of 6.8% over 2015, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics. This growth is 1.7 points higher than the growth in 2015, which was 5.1 %. If we look at autonomous communities, we have the best evolution, which have been Canary Islands and Castile and León, with 14.5% and 10.2%, respectively, compared to the previous year. On the other hand, the lowest progress was made in the Balearic Islands, with 0.5%, and in the Basque Country, with 0.4% in the growth of the turnover of the hotel industry. We do not have good data, we do not progress in a satisfactory way. We have a great deal of disadvantage with other autonomous communities, such as Castile and León, for example, and therefore we have a great deal of work to boost the hospitality sector in the Basque Autonomous Community. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u95	Good morning, everyone. Well, first of all, I cannot resist the temptation to welcome the People's Party to the debate on the new status. What happens is that it is about the new status of hospitality, and not about the new political status of this country, which would be more interesting. Let us see if we will also eventually join that other debate. We think we're going to talk about hosting here, and seeing that there's a middle way, we're gonna make a deal. It's not that bad. I think, though this agreement is partial, we shall be a little better off than we have entered this plune. Not as well as we could, but a little better, and, as I was saying, that's not very little. I think that the proposition we are going to discuss today is right in its very heart, because in the end it answers to a necessity, and in some measure proposes a remedy. We believe that host, by its dimensions, deserves specific regeneration in the government's orgy, and beyond that, in its activity and daily practice. Because the host has had a very high economic activity in this country: More than 5,500 million euros, there are over 53,000 employees in the host. If he is and has a name, at least, as I said, he must have a name for a sector so important to give a specific treatment and attention in the government organ to be that name. PP brought the proposal. It was in the original proposition to create a specific presidency, called Turism, commerce, and hosting, that new state, which the host should really have. We thought, and if we agreed in the heart, that this proposition could be improved and tried by a correction to propose these improvements. In the first place, we demanded specific admission between the functions of the department, and, beyond the functions marked by the decree which prescribed the government department, that this division of host management was to be specifically included. On the other hand, we requested that this acceptance should be effected by organising organising organs in order to fulfil this function. And at the third point, what I was talking about at first: from the thread of the word game of name and of being, to insert the name of the host in the name of the section. We thought we'd improve this proposal to the original plan, but we saw there's been an agreement with the side that supports the government. In a certain sense, it seems logical to us that we should come to an agreement with the sects which maintain the Government rather tempting, because it supposes it to be a bonder, independently of the political echo, and to have real practical consequences. It seems to us, therefore, that in the end the most important guarantee is, that the host will provide a regeneration, and that someone will take care to take over this matter. That's why we won't vote, we'll forget. But we won't vote for a simple reason. In our correction we did not propose to ourselves what point or direction this matter was to be handled; host now has a much greater connection with the trade sector than with tourism. In this respect, it must be said that PNV and PSOE, in the correction introduced by PNV, made a self-correction in the law of Turism, in the law of Tourism mentioned by Mrs. lópez, by Mrs. But now and again, in the rectification and the now established medium, host and tourism are connected. And we believe that, of course, on a practical issue, on the management of subjects, on a conceptual issue, hospitality has much more to do with trade than with tourism. In fact, in the tourism satellite account it is reported that just a 16 (the data is a little old, probably the data to today will be something more, 20% of the spending of hospitality is related to the tourism sector, leaving us more than 80% of hospitality activities out of the relationship with tourism. And it is therefore clear that, although there is an important connection between hospitality and tourism, not all hospitality is tourism. We believe that it has more regulation and more relation to trade, and we would also not call for the creation of a specific direction, because we do not want to promote high-ranking inflation and the organisational inflation of this Government, which, from what we have already seen in the press, and from the point of view of a rapid reading of the budgets, are already themselves responsible for promoting that inflation, because they have multiplied the number of high-ranking posts. We did not want to inflate the organization chart, but we did want the people in the hospitality sector to make it clear that there is a window in the Basque Government to be addressed and from which their requests will be addressed. He said that for us it would have been much better if that window were shared with the field of trade, because, although hospitality and commerce are not twins, we could say that they are twins, because they look quite alike from different aspects. From an urban point of view, we understand that hospitality and commercial activity are developed along a continuous physical, which is the one that forms the urban plot of our towns and cities. It is the sequence of houses-bars-houses, or shops-bars-houses, depending on the areas, but that is what makes up the lower part of the buildings, which makes up the plot of the streets through which we circulate. And obviously there is continuity, there is contiguity and we believe that there is a continuum, which is worth working together from that urban perspective. Because, in addition, both hospitality and commerce are aspects that contribute to socialization, leisure, even security, lighting of cities... Finally, from a physical-geographic point of view there is a great affinity between hospitality and commerce. As for the structure, and from a technical and management point of view of this type of establishment, we understand that both also share a very similar structure. Of the 14,000 hotels registered by the Eustat, 11,400 have fewer than four workers; that is, we are talking about micro-enterprises, we are talking about very small businesses, which have the same size distribution as can exist in the trade sector. There are also a third of employees in the area of hospitality who are self-employed... Finally, we have many concomitances also in the aspect of the business structure between trade and hospitality. The needs and claims of both sectors are also similar, the problems are similar: the transmission of business, family continuity, the need to improve the preparation of business managers, training... We understand that there are many more issues that connect hospitality with trade, and we believe that conceptually it is much better to take them from the same counseling, or the same direction. But basically the important thing, and that's why we're not going to oppose the transaction you've reached, the important thing is that the hospitality is going to have a recognition. It is an activity of sufficient entity and identity to be recognized. We do not think that hospitality is a kind of appendage or a small sister of other sectors of the economy, it has its own entity, and although, as I said before, for the sake of the resource economy we did not propose the creation of a council or a vice-counsel or a specific direction, we would understand that management would be much easier to share with the Directorate of Commerce. Therefore, whether in one area or another, whether within an organizational model or another, we renew our commitment to support the activity of the hospitality industry because of its economic importance, the thousands of jobs it generates, its social importance and its cultural importance. And we will continue to work for a quality model and a model of our own in the hospitality industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u97	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. Talking at these times of hospitality is always a bit complicated, but good. While I would like to point out that the Tourism Act 1994 regulated the activity of companies operating in the tourism sector until August last year, including this hospitality sector, and that law also regulated the role of public administrations. And in the past parliamentary term – it has already been said here – when the new Tourism Act was being processed, representatives of the hospitality sector expressed their concern about the consequences that the repeal of the 1994 law would entail, because they absolutely lost their regulatory framework, which was based primarily on four articles, and this already caused them a problem even of dialogue and relations with the public administration itself. The Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs almost a month ago presented in this Parliament, in his appearance on the strategic lines to develop this legislature, the consideration of hospitality as an important and priority sector of attention also by his department. Because hospitality is one of those elements that characterize Euskadi's tourist offer as well, and that is why there is a commitment from this advisor to promote and promote the innovation and modernisation actions that the sector needs. And in order to restore the administrative relationship with the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption of the Basque Government – something that the hospitality sector itself had already insisted on since July, the month in which the new Tourism Act was passed – we have finally reached an agreement to respond to that request, and more than just a request: to that concern. Because hospitality as a tourist activity accounts for 16.7% of the overall production of the whole sector in Euskadi, employs more than 49,000 people, and contributes slightly more than 4.5% of the gross domestic product. And it is true that the economic sectors of Euskadi, such as energy, health, education, housing, agriculture, fisheries, transport, trade, industry, the financial sector, or even tourism itself, all have a direct dialogue, which is also legally recognised by the Euskadi Administration, and this has not happened since August 2016, since August last year, with the case of the hospitality sector. That is why, since the entry into force of the current law, a relationship between the administration and the hospitality sector, as I say stable and definitive, was then, and still remains today, necessary to articulate definitively; that, abandoning the dependence of a sector that was linked to the will of the government in office, it might already have that regulatory framework, that place where its needs, its specificities, and where to find a solution to its problems, were to be found. That is why it seemed to us to be important, and indeed it seems to us to be substantial, the agreement that we have been able to reach in this case with the proponent of the original initiative. An agreement calling on the Basque Government, with regard to the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, to change the name of the current Directorate of Tourism to adopt the new name "Directorate of Tourism and Hospitality", from which will be established those actions and measures necessary for the optimal development of the hotel sector of Euskadi. And he said who preceded me in this rostrum in the use of the word that why not trade, that they saw the connection with trade more appropriate. Well, we have a new Tourism Law since July 2016, which came into force in August; a law that also involves a profuse regulatory development (I think there were more than twelve regulations that had to be initiated). Therefore, we will find in this direction of tourism and hospitality the appropriate regulatory framework in order to be able to develop those issues that are still pending in the hotel industry. Because some changes will have to be made, there are still outstanding issues (such as the inspection of the hotel establishments, which has not only remained in limbo; it is not known how to articulate these inspections of the establishments), and, therefore, this new Tourism Act will enable us to tackle the needs of the sector itself, which, in addition to being important, is necessary for the sector itself. And I would stress in this agreement the importance also of the satisfaction and satisfaction of the sector itself, which has brought us, in short, how they are absolutely in agreement and happy that we have framed them in this Directorate of Tourism, and that they therefore thank us and thank this House for the effort and approval of this initiative that is being brought here today. Therefore, I think it is time and time to congratulate you. It was a problem to fit this issue with the denomination in the vice-counsel itself. As has been said, this was supposed to generate a new direction, which in turn entailed staff and material expenses. This was even seen to be perhaps somewhat excessive, so it could represent the hospitality sector in the economic sector as a whole of Euskadi. I therefore believe that we have found a good location, to the satisfaction of the sector itself, which has been very restless and very concerned for many months now, and that, therefore, we have been able to respond to a need that was more than obvious. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief physician, good evening to all. Eubertarians for parlamentary groups, a host attorney, is of great importance. We believe this sector has certain characteristics. They were mentioned by other spokesmen who had spoken before me, but I would separate them into three sets. On the one hand, this sector has its own features without any doubt, because it is a remarkable economic sector in the Esscal economy. It has been said here that it represents four percent of our raw internal procedure, and as far as job is concerned, 5%. According to some calculations, there are 14,000 companies in the hoststore, so of all the companies 9%. But there are, too, and here it has been mentioned, other properties, which share with the merchant and the professor of Turism. As to the merchant doctor, I believe that Mr. Casanova has spoken better than well, but if anything is to be remarked, I should insist on two aspects or ideas: in the works of the structure of our peoples, neighbors, cities, we have no doubt that the host contributes, and, on the other hand, it is a very important sector of socialization and leisure. With regard to tourism, or rather the value chain of the tourism industry, and also to the value chain of the food industry, it has also been said, and rightly so, that not all the Horeca sector is oriented towards these two sectors which I have just mentioned. However, those who do are related both to the tourist industry and to the food industry, the truth is that they have an absolutely key and very important participation. They are one of the aspects of that value chain that is absolutely key, among other things because we are increasingly aware of the importance of gastronomy at both the social and economic levels. And today gastronomy, in whose sector or value chain – I insist – has a very important participation the hospitality, because it means pleasure, quality, health, sustainability... It is already an attitude towards food itself. According to the World Tourism Organization, more than a third of a tourist's spending is spent on food. We travel to meet other countries, other cultures, to meet their people, to make purchases..., but also, and increasingly, attracted by gastronomy. Gastronomy, therefore, is present in our decisions when we travel. The weight of gastronomy, and therefore I insist, of the establishments of the Horeca sector, when it comes to tilting towards a destination is increasingly important. It is shown that when we travel we take into account the gastronomy to decide where to go and what to visit. The gastronomy, in addition to the accommodation, is an attraction more and more valued by the different tourists. According to different studies, in Euskadi more than 20% of the tourists who visit us say that they do so because of the issue or because of the gastronomic sector. I believe that here there are two factors that have greatly influenced the prestige of gastronomy, and also, I insist, the hospitality sector itself, which I believe is worth highlighting. On the one hand is the Basque cooking brand. Because cooking, both before and now, is one that is based on its roots but without losing sight of innovation and evolution itself. The work of the cooks to give visibility to a country's cuisine is tremendously important, and they are part of our Basque Country brand, even clearly in the case of Euskadi. In this sense, we think it is necessary to support cooks and cooks to promote and disseminate their cuisine. The second aspect for which the food industry and also the hospitality industry are on the rise and have the prestige that it has is, in my opinion, because of the diversity of offer we have. Tourists in Euskadi can opt for a proposal as popular, close and socially valued as can be pintxos, or for a traditional bar-restaurant with high quality products that are healthy and also at a very good price. But they also have the option of living unique experiences in authentic gastronomic temples recognized worldwide for their innovation. At this point, I think it is fair to quote at least our chefs and restaurants three Michelin stars, such as Pedro Subijana with the Akelarre, Azurmendi with Eneko Atxa, or Martín Berasategi with the Berasategi restaurant, and, of course, the great teacher of all the teachers, in my opinion, who is Juan Mari Arzak, and his daughter Elena, who has been cold for twenty-eight years (and is said soon, twenty-eight years) maintaining the status of three Michelin stars. I don't know if we really realize the meaning of all this. Indeed, following the adoption of the Tourism Act, the hospitality sector had to be relocated in some way, and, in parallel to the adoption of the Act itself, the need to institutionally relocate the hospitality sector and its corresponding sectoral plans to help it to improve its competitiveness had already been negotiated with the sector. We've reached an agreement. I believe that it is basically a satisfactory agreement, where the important thing – and I believe that it has also been underlined here – are the actions, sectoral plans and measures that we can implement and that the Basque Government itself can implement for the optimal development of the hospitality sector in Euskadi and its competitive improvement. It's the important thing. I imagine at this time that more than one of them will be hungry, and if you have no time and opportunity to get home, you may know that in this house or around the legislature the host has a very large offer (he is very healthy), and so take advantage of it. Bon appétit, all of you. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u99	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. We're going round the teams that don't run, together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u100	Mila esker, Tjeria anderea. Good afternoon, everyone. As you well know, the Tourism Act was passed at the last plenary session of the last legislature, on July 28, 2016. It was during an extraordinary plenary session, where it was adopted without any vote against and with the votes in favour of PNV, PSE and EH Bildu and with the abstention of PP and UPyD. Some of the women parliamentarians who are participating in the debate on this GNP that we are proposing today and who have had sex with PSE, PNV and the People's Party were critical of the times and haste with which this rule was brought forward a few months ago, with the aim of having it approved before Mr Urkullu called early elections and dissolved the Basque House. This law was classified as a dusk and nightfall, and it was noted that it contained important gaps. In fact, some of you expressed your concern, because the regulation that was intended depended on a fairly extensive subsequent regulatory development. The law seeks to regulate all figures of tourist accommodation, from traditional to the most emerging, such as tourist apartments. From Elkarrekin We regret that the law does not envisage measures to avoid massification in coastal and capital villages, and to make the diversification of tourist activities a reality in the future and has a positive impact on the economy of the multiple municipalities of Euskadi, beyond Gasteiz, Bilbao and Donostia. A law made in haste, with regulatory loopholes that are coming out later, and which leads us today to debate this PNL that Mrs López de Ocariz has presented to us. Things didn't go well at the time, and today we have an insufficient Tourism Act. From Elkarrekin We can bet on a tourism law that bets on sustainable and quality tourism in our territory. Today, tourism is one of the most important and expanding sectors of the world economy, being an increasingly important sector in ours. The results of the tourist activity in Euskadi confirm this. Also with regard to generated employment, it is estimated that more than 100,000 people are dependent on this sector. We have to point out, however, that this is often a precarious job. From Elkarrekin We are in favour of tourism, but we are against it being the only bet to the detriment of other sectors and activities. However, we also understand that tourism has other faces. Without coordination and planning, the demand for public services can exceed its capacity, with negative results for both the resident population and tourists. The impact of tourism activity is deeply felt on the environment; to this end, it is essential to make the tourism industry compatible with environmental sustainability. Sustainable tourism is an industry committed to the low impact on the environment and local culture, while contributing to generating income and jobs for the population. The sustainable name incorporates a new ethic of tourism and tourist: the sensitivity to nature, culture and life forms of the population of the places where they travel. The sustainable development of tourism also requires the participation of all actors involved in the sector, for which criteria must be taken into account from the perspective of the triple balance sheet: economic, environmental and social. Of those dusts these muds. A law passed in haste, because of the imperative need to order the tourist apartments, which we understand is important, but it is not the only thing that had to be addressed. We believe that if the process of elaboration had been more participatory and had been counted on the various actors in the sector, it could have been better. The PNV and the PSE have reorganized the different departments of the Basque Government in this legislature, and have removed the areas of tourism, trade and consumption from the Department of Economic Development in which they were included in the previous legislature. For Elkarrekin Podemos, not sharing the overall division by department that has been carried out (such as the placement of Employment and Work in different departments), this decision to equip tourism, trade and consumption with its own entity, considering them a department in itself, seems to us to be a correct decision, and we value it positively. Today's PNL, which is presented by the PP, proposes to grant the hotel industry a new status and create a vice-advisory that is rid of consumption and trade. We understand that it is relevant to you, but let us not share it at all. The hotel industry is an important sector, yes, in Euskadi, what a doubt!, but the institutional work must remain coordinated with Commerce and Consumption. Shops and hospitality are a very important part of the lives of our cities; therefore, we believe that it should be the municipalities, based on the same security and support conditions, that have the capacity to communicate with this sector. It is the municipalities that, in our opinion, have a privileged position, from citizen participation, to detect the problems of each sector and to make more accurate diagnoses of the different needs in terms of consumption, commerce and hospitality. We want closer and more participatory institutions, in constant direct contact with the people, associations and collectives who live and organize themselves in each neighborhood. They are the ones who have to dictate the policies we do in this House and in other institutions. And that must not be forgotten, that we are at your service. In Mr Retortillo's last appearance as a new advisor on Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, we have already made it clear that, while recognizing the importance of hospitality in the Basque GDP, the development of the policies of this department cannot revolve exclusively around hospitality and gastronomy. For us, consumers form one of the most important interest groups, and our way of consuming determines and configures the world in which we live. We express our intention that it is also necessary to change the pattern of consumption, and to generate and promote more responsible consumption, as a fundamental objective of this department, as well as to promote and promote small trade. For all this, it seems to us that the replacement amendment tabled by EH Bildu, which integrates the hospitality in the name of the department, comes to ask for the same as that proposed by the amendment negotiated by the other three parties, and we are going to abstain. You know better than I that the Tourism Act to which you refer has many regulatory loopholes, due to the need to speed up its adoption at the end of the last legislature. We could not be against strengthening and reformulating the current framework of relations with hospitality associations. It goes into Elkarrekin's DNA We can change the system to make the institution an open and participatory space. But not only as they are doing with the hotels associations of Euskadi; also with all those small organizations and autonomous people who open the gate day after day, no matter if it is Tuesday or Sunday. With all of them. And you're not creating those channels. That is why we will have to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. I'll open an answer shift. Basque Popular. Yours is the word, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u102	Thank you, President. Briefly, first to thank the Government (Mr. Counsellor, thank you) and the groups that support the Government for being able to reach this agreement, which is very important for the hospitality sector. It's a milestone! The hospitality has never been in the name of the structure of the government department! Therefore, for them it is a status they have never had, and they are very proud. It is they who have decided in which direction to stay. It's true that they have a broken heart, and so I've been told. They are related to trade, but they have always been closer, in terms of government structure, to tourism. They chose him, we didn't choose him. Therefore, I fully respect you. Of course they are also part of the social life of the urban cores, I said! If a city council wants to test the feeling of its urban core, it approaches who? Trade and hospitality, and that's why they participate in city hall forums, of course, and they are proud to participate there. And Mr. Casanova told us that this initiative today... Look, there are times when a bad deal, so good solutions come along. We do not participate or do not support the Tourism Act. I am sure that what we were proposing for the Tourism Act was not that the hotel industry should appear in the name of the structure; we wanted it to be collected. But it wasn't possible. You supported the Tourism Act, and you didn't admit it. But it has been good, because today we are getting the hospitality to be in the structure of the government, and we are therefore very proud. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u104	Well, Mrs. García, the Tourism Act was passed after developing an intense dialogue with all the agents in the sector. And not only after the dialogue has developed, but with your express agreement and with your express request that this law be passed as soon as possible. This group, as I think you will understand perfectly well, gives the urgency of Mr Urkullu's government the importance it gives them, but what it does give importance is the urgency of an entire economic sector that saw hundreds or thousands of jobs threatened by a legislative hole that had to be covered as soon as possible. And that's why we passed the law, even though we were actually forced to shorten the deadlines. But that was not an obstacle for the law, as I was saying, to be unanimously supported by the sector, and for the law to be good. And the debate we are having here today has nothing to do with the pace of law-making, because the decision to regulate or not to regulate the hospitality in that law was not a decision to be made because there was a hurry and three or five more articles could not be inserted, but rather a decision, as I said earlier, of a conceptual nature. And here those who have made the Copernican turn are others. Here the government..., at the time the government of the Basque Nationalist Party said that tourism was not the right framework to regulate the problems of hospitality, because it had its own dimension and characteristics. And it was for a rational decision and not for the haste for what it was decided to take out. Which, by the way, were few articles. That is why it is strange to me now that the intention is to reclaim, through regulatory development, the need to treat hospitality from this area. Look, it would give me the same idea, in principle, if it were dealt with in the field of tourism or in the field of trade. The question is that only 16% of the hotel industry is related to trade, and there are many bars and hospitality businesses in this country that will never see a tourist in life unless the GPS is broken to the tourist. And those bars and businesses also have to have a treatment that, as I said before, for a conceptual, practical and technical issue, would be much more appropriate from the point of view of trade. But in any case, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, well, let us congratulate ourselves on the good part of the agreement, which is that, precisely, they are galgos or punchos, in the end that we do not get caught up in the discussion and we do not solve the problem, and let us not give at least one channel and let us not put a window to which the people of that sector can address themselves to ask what their needs are. That, as we all know, because we have a dialogue with them, they are not the need for more regulation. If they're not asking us for laws! If they're complaining about regulation! If the hotel managers come here and tell us they have to have between fifteen and twenty signs in each bar because Interior tells them this, Health tells them the other...! If the problem of the hospitality sector is not regulated! It's not regulation, it's support. And they and they expressly make a comparison on the type of support they want, and the type of support they want is the support that the trade sector has, and that is why there would also be a concomitance in that regard. But, I'm telling you, it's not a casus belli or a reason to say that today's deal is extremely bad. Well, after all, it's not all that good it could be, but it does address the main question, that there is a reference for the hospitality sector to be served by the Administration. And, as I said, in the debate on the Tourism Act it was a premeditated decision and an analytical decision that tourism was left out. But I say, less regulation and more support, which is what we are being asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Madame Corcuer, over there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u106	Yes, thank you, President. From the seat, if I may, and briefly. Just to clarify some point, in case there were any doubts, in view of the statement made by the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos. The Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra in this House what it gave to the Tourism Act of July 2016 was critical support. This parliamentary group tabled seventy-seven amendments to this law, and this parliamentary group was the only one that requested the appearances of representatives of society, government, institutions...; appearances that were filed in thirty-six applications and of which we had a number of them, could only be filed. The Socialist Party therefore worked hard on this law, and worked hard on it. But to past events... as is often said, past water does not move mill. And, therefore, we already find ourselves, in fact, with a law. A law that has left out, as we said, a part of the hospitality sector, because the accommodation is indeed covered by the law. Therefore, let us make the necessity virtue, and let us recognize the fact that today's hospitality for the first time has a name, and you will see its name in one of the addresses of the Euskadi Administration. Secondly, the visibility of this sector is important. We've done it. It was also a concern on the part of the hospitality sector, and I think we have succeeded. Therefore, today we are going a little happier home than what we have come to, because at least we managed to pull out a need that was important for this sector. There is now the difficult task, logically, which will be for the Government, which will be to demonstrate and demonstrate the support and channelling of the sector's specific needs, through regulatory developments (because some will be precise, perhaps even some amendment of the law, that will be seen), but I think the first step is taken, and it is not a small thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yeah. Very short, from your seat, Mrs. President. I, in line with what Mrs Corcuera has said, simply want to recall, for a little while, that in the government agreement itself between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party the heading related to this whole issue, as well as to the question of tourism and trade, is entitled "Trade, tourism and hospitality". Therefore, we had already come from the previous legislature with the clear and agreed idea with the sector, as I said in my first speech, of the need to relocate them in some way in order to effectively help them, which is important, with a whole series of plans to improve their competitiveness. And thank you very much to Mrs. Mari Carmen López de Ocariz for her benevolence towards the negotiation and pact of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u108	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. And finally, together Podemos. Mrs. Garcia... he must not speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Populars, Eukal Sociists, and the middle-class correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-23.u109	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
