ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. All right, everybody, take your seats. First point in theme list: "Pull yourself together as a parliamentary group proposal about Artur Mas and his two departments. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u1	Mme. head of the table, good morning to all. On November 9th, 2014, the people of Catalonia were asked about their future. The question was asked, because there was a loud demand, a loud demand and a light, a light demand to determine his future, a hundred thousand people who were confirming it for years. It's true, it's not an affair that happens in our country, but it doesn't mean we don't have to take any notice of it, because I think we have a clear idea that what's happening in Catalonia or what's happening in Catalonia and what's going to happen, will affect our people directly. So we have the light in EHG, and that's why we're looking, and we're looking straight at Catalonia. Although others of this chamber wish to take their distance with the state of Catalonia, I do not believe that no one thinks it necessary to underestimate the course of Catalonia or to consider the course of Catalonia. From 2012 to this year, they are yearned by the cry of the right to decide the streets of Barcelona and other villages of Catalonia. I remember exactly the 2d of 2012, where the streets of Barcelona were blocked because there were more than a million people in the street in response to a demonstration called Assemba Nacinal Catalan. I remember also how all Generalitat leaders participated in this demonstration and didn't participate in the march, President Artur Mas, who was then president, declared that he would consider the appeal that had been made in that demonstration for the national transition to Catalonia. I remember also that this demonstration had its effect even beyond the borders of Catalonia, and that here, too, Patxi López, who was the president of the present hour, plainly stated that a demonstration of this magnitude was not to be despised. That's reality 2012. Now in 2013 it was repeated again, with a chain of men, that it crossed Catalonia from the north to the south with a chain of men, and even then there were more than a million persons involved. But it happened again in 2014, then again in Barcelona and almost two million persons. and in 2015 and in 2016 there has been the same meaning as in the number of participation. So one thing was clear: There was a request in Catalonia, a cry from Catalonia. The most logical question is to ask, when the people ask for something. If the people of a democracy command, they must know what they want. And then there was a clear plan: "We shall make a Referendum," to find out whether, for years, it was so loud a clamor, that it was planned, whether or not the majority of society protected it. The society of Catalonia wanted to be an independent state to know whether or not, without intending to deceive things clearly. The Spanish Government, of course, had different opportunities; The answer to petitions and negotiations proposals was rejected, the appeal to the Constitutional Court before its own initiative. There was another possibility of the Great Britain's having taken the road to Scotland, and it had been possible to enable democracy to know what it was to be the will of Catalan; but as has always happened in the history of the Spanish Kingdom, it had been the choice and the use of the power of the Spanish Government. Because the Spanish law is used and has been used historically to restrain the rights of nations. The Spanish laws did not in their own day guarantee the right which several nations of America had to determine their future in a free manner. These nations, founded on the Spanish laws, would not have been independent. And now they're independent, and in the future we'll be others. Spain employs its own legislation before the liberty of nations, and it employs courts of justice in preventing political means. And, of course, when you play with the rules of the enemy and the arbiters of the enemy, you can't win. The Socialist group has only introduced one correction, and in this correction indicates that the problem is political and mutual, and that it is to be rectified, bargaining and compact, or agreeing with each other, which ought to be made under the law in question. And we fall back into the eternal trap. And I think you don't realize that you don't realize what you're reading about. Well, you know what reading is, don't you? But that doesn't solve the problem. If we have no chance to build or determine the future in a free manner, unless we decide it, others determine in our place, and, consequently, we have only to accept it. This is not called a communion, it is called an action. And this must be said clearly: one cannot build one another by an impulse, but only a life can be built under the will of every one, in order to make one another, when every one has a chance of doing it one way or the other. This is not to-day a guarantee, whether it be the only frontier of Spanish legislation or Spanish law. President Mas and Presidents Ortega and Rium, as a member of the government, and according to its orders at Parlament, had put tools on the table to know the will of the people, and all these instruments, within the laws which were granted to the Parliament. So it was a path to leprosy. There was no intention of breaking the law, as others say, and of breaking the law; In the first place, for a refrendum, we pass to the query and at last make a part of the process. The laws of Catalonia, the laws of Catalonia, were followed by the established laws. Catalan Governments to the people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u2	Mr. Urizar, they say the translation system doesn't work, that's why... but go on, you follow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u3	It's no problem, right? I don't know... Mr. Sémper understands it more and more at rest, and will answer, and... Well, I was saying that as Mas, Ripau, and Ortèg were members of the government, they had obeyed the order of the local parliament, and had placed their tools in order to explain their will to the people of Catalonia. The Catalan Government enabled him to interrogate him. And that's what we're going to say. That's what the Spanish Government wants to prosecute. He wants to make asking a crime, and he wants to turn democracy into a crime. We do not understand: Where's the problem with the question? Why can't you ask? They did it in Scotland. He was given his way to Scotland. And the Scots, 2014. the same year they decided that they would not follow the independenceist. There is no such thing as the creation of a Spanish State, the maintenance of a Spanish State within its impeachment. It can only be a real life when it's chosen volunteerly. There's no other choice. And as long as this foundation is not approved, the political conflicts of Catalonia and Basque Country will remain, until the decisions are founded on will. Mas, Ortega and Riga, are already symbol of democracy in Catalonia. But from the initiative that begins on Monday, by the initiative of Spanish justice, Mas, Ortega and Riga, will become martyrs, which will bring the society of Catalonia still more and more to be strengthened. That's what's going to bring in the confessional. This will bring about the lack of solution, because there is no solution through action. By accepting this other law which we bring here today, I propose to this Chamber: Let us state it through this Chamber, or this Chamber, by accepting this proposition, protects democracy. Let us express clearly, aloud, that this Chamber protects democracy, and that we defend it as a democratic principle, and always defend it. Let's speak to President Mas and the chief of the Ortegas and the Rite Night, when the trial begins Monday, that we'll be with them. That is the request I send you from here, and I hope that this request has a positive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u4	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u5	Thank you, President. Look, the bad thing about this debate is that there are still those who propose that conflicts and political differences, in democracy, be resolved to the brave. The good thing is that we have an opportunity to say that in the Basque Country we stand for dialogue and the pact, and that we stand for our ability to reach agreements to be subject to the citizens' criteria, in the ballot box, but with guarantees that it is useful and does not create unnecessary frustrations. That is what we are debating today, and what we have discussed on many other occasions. Because this isn't new. The new, that's true, is a prosecution of former senior officials of the Government of the Generalitat. What we Socialists have already said before is that we have to get the policy out of the courts, and unfortunately it is still there. Because neither the prosecution of public offices, nor in its case the judicial decision that can be made, whatever, will solve the problem in which Catalans have lived for too long. It will not be settled by a trial in which citizen mobilizations are to be countered above the legal criteria used by judges. Nor are they going to fix either an acquittal or a conviction. None of this has to do with the fact that Catalonia requires a review of its fit in the common project of Spain. Because there is a procedure to do so without dividing Catalans, even if that does not calm the maximum aspirations of a part of that community. Those who deny the greatest and those who deny anything other than their thesis, are wrong, on both sides. And every day an ace appears in the sleeve, every day something is unveiled that tries to condition the Catalan problem, in one sense or another, every day a new date for the consultation, every day as in the old movies of the west, a duel to the sun. And the important thing, the Catalan citizens, those in a corner. A group that defines itself as anti-capitalist gives up seats for budgets full of cuts and conservative theses, because even for anti-capitalists the nation overlaps with the revolution. A representative of a party in the government revealing alleged practices of personal data trafficking of citizens, to the greatest glory, that is, of the ultimate cause of independence, which we all hope is not true. A President of the Catalan Government failing in every attempt to join up support for his cause abroad, and a President of the Government of Spain who has remained with his arms crossed so far. Two presidents who have wrapped themselves in their respective flags, and have distracted Catalans from the welfare policies and the fight against unemployment, which are the ones they need. Because I want to remind you of one thing about that demonstration you were talking about on the 2012 Day: there were a lot of people in that demonstration; a lot of people who demanded independence and a lot of people who wanted to protest about the deterioration of the welfare state in Catalonia. There were two of them in that demonstration, and that's still being maintained. And in the end, what they do is to flee their responsibilities to seek solutions to these issues and to coexistence – what we are talking about in our amendment – between the different ways of feeling Catalan. Because there are different ways of feeling Catalan, as there are different ways of feeling Basque here. Neither the independence nor the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation are going to fix the consequences of the very serious crisis suffered these years, which has been the last trigger of the financing problems and which has brought about an unresolved political problem in Catalonia. These consequences are arranged with positive proposals to regenerate a country particularly hit by corruption, recover social rights lost by the same government that now defends independence, and seek agreement so that Catalans continue to feel comfortable in the common project of Spain and Europe. And we are aware, we cannot fail to be so, that the nationalists will always be relatively uncomfortable, also those who defend the unity to the extreme of the Spanish nation. Their ultimate ends are others, but they are the ultimate ends of a very respectable part of society that cannot be taken, as has been done by the nationalists, throughout Catalonia. And, of course, those who rule cannot skip the rules. They can change, but don't jump. Socialists aspire to change them through constitutional reform, but we are not going to skip the rules. And it is not a useless appeal to legality; it is an appeal to politics, to pure politics, to real politics, to useful politics, to exercise the responsibilities that citizens give us when they vote to solve their problems, not to create new ones. And the problems are not solved by ignoring the previously agreed rules that were so widely supported by the Catalans themselves throughout the autonomic process. And to bet on pure politics and assume our responsibility is to flee from black or white, from tea or coffee, from independence or I nullify your autonomy. And that is, unfortunately, the dichotomy in which the political discourse is installed in Catalonia. Tsipras also consulted on what Europe demanded of him, and won, and the next day he followed the queues in the banks, and two years later the Greeks were poorer than then. Cameron consulted in Scotland, won, but no one doubts that the Scottish issue remains to this day pending resolution, and that soon (probably you are right) he will have new chapters. Cameron again consulted with Brexit, lost, and we are still waiting to know the consequences that this will have for all, the English and the rest of Europeans. And that decision was probably made with too much joy, but, of course, what was not the solution to the problems of the British, and now it is being said by the British themselves. Trump also promised to give work only to the Americans, at the cost of forbidding entry to Mexicans, to Muslims... He won, it is true, but we do not believe that that was the solution either to the problems of the Americans or, of course, to the problems of the rest of the world, nor to human rights. Complex political decisions, and this is so, are not resolved with simple answers. That's a political bulwark mistake. In Catalonia there is a political problem, it is true, complex, and today they can receive two possible messages from Euskadi: one voluntarist, as full of national spirit as hollow and irrelevant – forgive me for telling you – and another with a method, which is the one we have chosen from Euskadi, of negotiation and pact, that culminates in a consultation with citizens, binding, to see whether or not they endorse the efforts of the political leaders. Because our obligation is to try to reach agreements, and consultations must serve to endorse previous agreements, not to sanction earlier divisions. We offer this last message from Euskadi to Catalonia, because here we are already cured of some dangerous temptations, and something we know of this, of generating frustrations and opening pits of mistrust that then hard to plug. And because we want the Catalans to know that the Basques want a project shared with Catalonia and the rest of the peoples of Spain that recognizes our plurality. We want for Catalonia what we want for Euskadi. And in Euskadi, beyond emotional debates – and this is so, and so much – there is a government that is committed to respecting the current legal order, because that is what gives security to the decisions that are made, and security is what will really be useful to citizens. That is why we want to invite the other groups to support our amendment, because we sincerely believe that it offers more hope and solidarity to all Catalans than the initiative originally proposed, which will be applauded by many Catalans and probably despised by so many others.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u7	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. I have to confess to you, Mr Urizar, that I had doubts about how to deal with this debate, because, in addition to being a debate that we have already had from various approaches in this House, it is true that our group and – I confess this – I especially have a lot of reservations when it comes to deciding on legal aspects for procedural purposes (on charges...), because one has a certain tendency to respect with particular intensity the separation of powers, from the utmost respect. And also to try to avoid ruling even on court judgments when they like and when they don't, when they occur. But, I insist, also in oral proceedings, when oral judgment is opened on some circumstance. But I believe that I can maintain this respect by entering into the substance of the question, in the end the substance of the question of what you raise. Because the twofold approach that arises from this debate, on the legal side, on which, I insist, this House has little to say, on an open oral procedure, on the presumption of an offence committed in this case by a former President of the Generalitat, who is, by the way, accused in this oral trial of nothing more and nothing less than disobedience and prevarication... And on this little point we are going to say, and we therefore find it particularly unfortunate that his non-law proposal, in which he calls for this Parliament to judge from now on the impossibility of a political leader being tried for the commission of crimes. Because then we would also enter into the identification of what crimes can or cannot be judged by a political representative. Because then we would also enter a dangerous chain, by which the representative of the people can almost do what they like, because he has the mandate of the people. Then we would also enter into the possibility or impossibility of criminally judging those engaged in politics. And in this we would enter into a particularly delicate terrain. But on the political side there is something to be said, and a few minutes should be devoted. We live in a land that has suffered especially from political discrepancy. We are a land that has suffered especially the alteration of coexistence. We are a land that has suffered especially from inoperation or from the attitude, sometimes, of politics itself, of what politics has projected to citizens. We are a land that has suffered especially terrorism, that has suffered violence in many manifestations and with many faces; that has suffered war of symbols, war of flags; that has suffered the fact of seeing how parts of cities and villages were vetoed to people who thought in a certain way. We have suffered how families have been confronted by politics. We've suffered how groups of friends stopped talking because of politics. And on those occasions I confess to him that I was looking, at that time so dark of this earth, I believe that fortunately past (we have to consolidate that jump, but fortunately past), I confess that I was looking with some envy at what was happening in Catalonia. At that time one went to Barcelona, went to Catalonia, and had the opportunity to see the normalized coexistence of symbols, of feelings of belonging. I saw how different, contrasting feelings of identity were normally lived in Catalonia. But, in any case, there was a normalized coexistence in Catalonia. And something is happening, something has happened, and some political leaders are, so that, in a way, and saving distances – obviously, saving the huge distances – today the tornadoes seem to be changing. Some political leader is in Catalonia so that today in Euskadi a space of political, social and hopeful coexistence is opened up, and in Catalonia it is involved or seems in some respects to the worst of what happens to us in Euskadi. Because today the coexistence in Catalonia between Catalans (I don't mean that of Catalans with the rest of Spanish, from Catalonia with the rest of Spain), the coexistence between Catalans is worse than that which was ten years ago or fifteen years ago, is objectively worse. Today politics in Catalonia is objectively worse than it was ten or fifteen years ago. Not only have the political decisions – basically, most of them (not only, but most of them) decided by Artur Mas – led to the disappearance of, for example, a political party with a broad responsibility for government and management in the past, or an autonomous government in the hands of the UPCs (that you, Mr. Urizar, are left up to a ursuline in terms of radicality, with all due respect); not only that the government has budgets in the hands of that radical party, or that Senators, that Catalan politicians display a violation of the law, that they have the data of the citizens, that we make our cape a saying; not only that the cases of corruption that have also surfaced in the Catalan establishment have been suspended and passed to a second level, because it is much more important to speak of independence; not only that they have a government that is not dedicated to lawmaking, nor to governing, nor to managing, as well as the proceedings of the government meetings are clear, but that the only objective is that the movement... All of this is responsible. Surely there are many, but who has ruled and who has put Catalonia and Catalan politics, and with it to Catalan society, on this path, which ends in a bottom of a sack, in a dead end, is Artur Mas. Among others, but their responsibility is inexcusable. And that we come to this House to ask for the pronouncement of these parliamentary groups on a judicial process, an oral process at this open moment, which projects the shadow of suspicion... Because Artur Mas is innocent until proven otherwise, legally innocent until proven otherwise, and what we must do is show respect for that oral procedure. And what you want is not only that we do not have respect for that oral procedure and that Artur Mas has the capacity to do what he wants, and that any other political leader has the possibility of doing what he wants, say what the laws say, but also that what is proposed in this House is a political applause for a social and political reality from which we have to flee, in this society and in any other that is modern, such as the plague. I do not want, we do not want Euskadi to look like it or Basque politics to look like Catalan politics. We don't want to. We do not want Basque politics to project on Basque society the same as Catalan politics and its irresponsible politicians have projected on Catalan society. And this is about what we were talking about a few weeks ago, and we said it was a reference (or last week, I think I remember) about what we shouldn't do, about what we think we have to take good note of, Mr. Urizar. I understand that you have political references and you have a political objective. And I understand that in addition to those political references and that political objective, for their achievement, they are worth almost anything. And I understand that for you this law enforcement is the least important, least weighty argument. I understand that. As we also understand that their model of social and political development is much more similar to that of the Catalan independenceists than we believe that Euskadi should follow. But if we do not make it clear that Artur Mas is innocent until the opposite is proved legally, but that he is politically guilty, for objective reasons such as those I have described, of what is happening in Catalonia, we will of course run the risk, even by imitation, of falling into the same mistakes in which Catalan politics has fallen. And this can't be. Politics cannot become a problem, politicians cannot create problems, and what Catalan politics and politicians, over all independenceists, have generated in Catalonia are problems, political and social. And this, this projects about Artur Mas a first-rate political condemnation. He's guilty of what's happening in Catalonia. Legally, we'll see what the TSJ says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today the Basque Country is brought to this Chamber around the state of Artur Mass and about its trial, for carrying a citizen's commission and the procés of Catalonia. I won't prolong my explanation for today, because it's true that I want to be very clear about our team's position here. Firstly, we are totally opposed to any elected or institutional office being prosecuted, prosecuted, convicted or harassed by the courts for carrying out political initiatives to ensure that the will of the citizenry is demonstrated in a democratic manner. And this serves for Mr.Artur Mas, for Carme Forcadell or any other representative of the citizenry. Secondly, we believe that the way in which the Government of the People's Party, with the undisguised support of the Socialist Party, is facing the demands of a social majority in Catalonia to be able to review its territorial status and decide is absolutely disastrous, ineffective, frentistic and destructive. But, even more so, as has been proven, it has been in many undemocratic moments. And thirdly, we are in favour of the right to decide. I think our position on this is well known. We defend him in Catalonia, we defend him in Euskadi and we defend him throughout the state. For us it is a democratic principle. However, we also believe that Artur Mas, and so repeatedly expressed by the CUP at the time, and other Catalan progressive forces, is a person in which there are many circumstances. I will quote two very obvious ones. The first is that they weigh on their person political responsibilities on corruption in the Government of the Generalitat and in their own party. The second is that its management of the crisis at the head of the Generalitat has been to apply some of the biggest social cuts we have witnessed. In this respect, our vote on the proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu will be that of abstention. I believe that our position remains meridianally clear; it became clear in this very House a few months ago when we held a joint press conference in defence of Carme Forcadell when she was prosecuted. We don't have any glue on it. But in this abstention it also weighs that Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal includes a reference to the Catalan process, to how he understands the right to decide circumscribed to the territorial, in a key that is unilateral and that we respect and believe that it is legitimate, but that we already know that it is not ours. For all these reasons, we abstain in the literality of the text presented, but we make very clear our defence of the Catalan political representatives who are accused of promoting consultation, our support for the right to decide, and our extraordinarily critical view of the Government of Mariano Rajoy on this issue. Over the next few years we will have the option of contrasting our different views on the right to decide in the self-government presentation, and we trust that we can reach agreements. But it is not up to us today, we believe, to hold this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u11	Good morning, everyone. Our vote will be for protection; in the end, it is demanded in this other proposition, namely, that the persons of Artur Mas, Joana Ortega and Irene Riau, as well as the authorities, in the political and judicial case which they are living at the present time, and at the same time extended a request to the Spanish Government: To confirm the wager of dialogue, agreement, and finally of giving to the people. Finally, what we want to achieve is political association between different nations, and this political life must open the doors and not close up. And that's why I'm reminding you, as I'm able, I'll read to you in his own time what President Joseph Antonio Aguirre said in the '48,' about Catallunia in Paris. I think it's an article with the whole of today. Tituluak gave "Cataluña es y será", éta exacten du..., Generalitat-eko presidenta izan zen Francesc Macià hil eta handik 14 urtera, gogoeta bat ludatzen du, éta exacten du: "Cataluña has the great virtue of being a permanent value. Catalonia is because their children feel the land, speak their language, are Catalans. Hence, when events seem to have disorganized political illusions, today as yesterday Catalanity, with its permanence value, emerges with such force that the most effective political enterprises flourish upon it again. "There are those who present the Catalans as politically turbulent, attributing this fact to the influence of an exacerbated individualism that has given, among other results, the birth of a libertarian movement of power. They deduce from this that Catalonia is not a factor of order, nor capable of directing a constructive process. I feel radically in the opposite field," says José Antonio Agirre, "not only out of affection, which the Catalans know well, not because of considerations of political affinity, which are also important, but because of my admiration for that reality which is Catalanity; because of the irresistible strength of this permanent fund which runs through the Catalan people and which leads me to believe in Catalonia as a factor of order and progress. Moreover, the Catalan genius has shaped the soul of his people with feelings of freedom so deep-rooted that his defense constitutes the brightest pages in Catalonia's history. These ideals have again been consecrated in our day through blood, pain and sacrifice. "Cataluña is and will be, as I was told on September 11, 33. I had been commissioned by my compatriots to attend in their representation the memorial ceremony of that glorious date, the celebration of the Diada. I reminded the president how excited I was about the enthusiasm and spontaneous applause with which the people had received him upon his arrival at the monument to Casanova, and how much courage the feelings had definitely rooted in the soul of the people. "Cataluña is and will be," replied President Macià, with that deep conviction that reflected his words, which responded to the deepest feelings of the spirit of that illustrious man. He said to me, 'It would have been the same as I would not have existed, because Catalonia would already have found the right men for this moment, as it will find them in each of the vicissitudes that can be presented to it in the future, because Catalonia is and will be.' And indeed, it is and will be. Not because I want it only, but because Catalonia, as a permanent value, will never find the paths of its health permanently closed in freedom. There will soon be favourable circumstances in which this freedom will be reorganized, for the sake of Catalonia and the other peninsular peoples. "It was a hope for those who believed otherwise. Macià died and Companies fell. Never received the land of Catalonia seed more Uberrima. The permanent fund that runs through its history received with this definitive consecration. Freedom will be the prize. "That this vow comes from a Basque has nothing strange. In the midst of the present woes, fate has set a course for our peoples as spokesmen of deep longings against all kinds of oppression and tyranny. That we know how to be worthy of it, remembering President Macià, will be the question. "On the 14th anniversary," he says, "of the death of the great friend of the Basques, I wanted to remove these memories, which are always grateful, because they show that faith in the great causes of freedom is by itself capable of keeping the spirit of the peoples on its feet. And if the will is put into action at his service, then the path of freedom has definitely been found." I think today's great, these words are terrible, in fact, to the evening before the trial of Artur Mas, Joana Ortega and Irene Riga. And with this, President Joseph Antonio Aguilar and President Macià, both of them, as mayor and others as mayor, declared the Republic of Catalan after the election, and also when Aguirre, with other mayors, was marching with other mayors to Guernica, was prevented by the trial of the Republic of that time, they both said the same thing. Some of them, too, conceal what Aguirre then said, and then, as mayor and afterwards at the Junt, the rest of the mayors proclaimed the Republic of Eascal, and also the right of self-determination. That's Aguirre and the equivalent. And it is true that Catalonia is at a crossroads, but the state too. The state is also at a crossroads and it's impossible to guess. And that's why, when we've arranged an opening here in this Chamber during our previous law, we've had a person, it's true that we called him, but Spanish. Very Spanish, very close. He, Francisco Rubio Llorinte, died a year ago, just in January last year, but in the last year, vicepresidete del Tribunal y President del Consejo de Estado el 2004, el 2012. I bring a reference, because he also intervened in that direction here, but he has had very concrete expressions with regard to the Catalan process. And he says: "If a territorialised minority wants independence, the democratic principle prevents them from putting up with formal obstacles that can be removed" (impedes them to put up with formal obstacles that can be removed). "If the Constitution prevents it, it will have to be reformed, but before it reaches that end," he adds, "it will be necessary to find out the existence and the solidity of that supposed will. And there is no other way than that of the referendum." This is said by the fact that he was President of the Council of State for so many years and Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, appealing to the democratic principle. And I wonder: are there any formal obstacles that can be removed? Obviously, yes. Is it possible to know whether sovereignist thinking or support for independence is sound? You can get to know each other. How? Through the consultation, through the referendum. Then the way is to consult, it's to ask. The governor who is afraid of consultation is not so concerned with the question as with the answer. And a ruler who in that application, since that ban, hides that political cowardice also has to face his own responsibility. Mr Rajoy and his Government are at a great crossroads, because they may have no idea what answers (the proportionality of those answers has been discussed, depending on the legal or political acts to be adopted by the Government of the Generalitat, or in its case the Parliament), but the only way out is to consult, to ask. And, as Rubio Llorente says, there are no formal obstacles to that will. And it's time, it's time to go and recognize what you see, what exists, that you don't have to invent anything. There are national facts, not recognized as such, that exist on the peninsula, in the Spanish State, and the Spanish Government or the powers of the State have to recognize that reality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u12	Finish up, Mr. Egibar...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u13	I repeat, it's not a fiction. They exist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. Egibar... Passing on the answers, Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Pastor, did you plan the agreements, the agreements, the agreements, the guarantees, or because they're a fruit, then the experiments, and then... And you're planning that Catalonia needs a reorganization, a reorganization of her project, or a reaction in Spain, because that didn't cause division. And there's the trap. There's the trap. Klaro! It seems the only chance that doesn't produce division is a project that's looking for training inside Spain. That's not democracy! Democracy is the choice of whether you want to be included or whether you want to be outside of that project. Klaro! It seems as if a democracy was published or divided by questioning. If there is no inquiry, there is no division, because we have the only chance that it must be included in the Spanish project. It is true that in this demonstration of 2012 there were many people who cried out in the dyad independence, and many of them were protesting for social conditions. It's true. And in 2013, and in 2014, and in 2015, and in 2016. It's just that, as soon as there's more and more people in these demonstrations, they already see that the only way to solve economic and social conditions is to take a proper course, that it's independence. They're still protesting, aren't they? Because of the economic and social situation, but they've taken a choice, and it's their own way of doing it. And it is true that in Catalonia there are different idenitarian feelings, Mr. Sémper said so too. And it seems that in the past the identitarian feelings... while some were silent, there was a normalized life, but when some have decided to transfer these feelings to a political project, and to make a career, there is always division, within a framed frame. But we have one thing: What are those sentiments for? Those feelings that are accepted (Plurality, multiplicity... ), there it is: How do you identify them? In some normal elections? There's an almost obvious light in the process... that which now urges an independence in Catalonia. Baina, hala ere, irakurketak egiten dira: okerrak sayla, ez de la ereferenduma, hauteskunde MP Batzuk sayla... Galdetuz, galdetuz. Baina dirudienez..., it seems that Mr. Pastor has a problem with the questions, because he says that simple questions (he has transferred the models or examples of Cameron from Trump, right?), simple questions should not generate solutions. Well, no. Maybe not. And not asking generates solutions? Are you advocating not to ask? Because the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is teaching us that by not asking, it also finds the solutions it needs inside the house. Therefore, I do not think that simple proposals of this kind solve the problems either. And Mr. Sémper... It's true. The judicial proceedings are, no doubt, obliged to respect, when you have your own arbiter, it is easier to respect judicial proceedings. And then, yes, the crime, that's what I'm going to do, whether he's committed a crime or not... Is asking a crime? Well, if it's a crime to ask a democracy, we're fine. We're fine. It moved that law enforcement must be the least weighty argument for me or for our bench, for our group. No, we think we have to work under some rules, but the limit cannot be those same rules. The limit has to be decided by the people. And the Catalan people have the right to set the legal limits, and I understand that the Spanish Government does not have them to prevent them. Therefore, it cannot be, the argument of the rule of law that is often used by the People's Party, can not be used to impose by threats the criteria of the Spanish model. We clearly reject the threats that these days are being made by the Spanish Government, transferring that it will seal the polling stations if that consultation is given, or that they will go beyond their dependence on autonomy. We reject them completely. Scottish and Catalan society, unlike ours, we understand that they have already won. They have won, because they have decided that their future is in their hands. We were told that it was impossible for an independence process to take place in Europe, and that is already a reality. Euskal Herria will also continue on that path, have no doubt. A strong embrace to everyone you fight for an independent Catalonia. You'll never walk alone. Besarkada beats Katalunian and independent herrialdeetan beasts Aldeko taupada tareten guztioi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u17	Well, going back a little bit to that first big demonstration of the 2012 massive diad, I think that caused two things. We agreed that there were people there who were at the demonstration for different reasons, some because they were independenceists and angry at the cuts, and others because they were very angry at the Generalitat's cut-off policies. Why did it start drifting from there? For probably because Convergence gave him a vertigo attack to see those people, and then he decided that the best camouflage for not talking about the cuts of the Generalitat was to get involved in the stellate and cover up any kind of social criticism, that there was, and he will agree with me that it has been very diluted, very covered and very annulled in Catalonia, because it is only about what the nationalists want to talk about, and not about what really affects the citizens. I am not in favour of trials and prosecutions like the one that has been launched, it seems to me to be a political mistake, but I also believe that we must respond to these situations in a rational way. Here we live, here was prosecuted the lehendakari Ibarretxe, and Mr Lopez and Mr Ares too! And the answer given from both sides was radically different: while we responded with concern, but also with respect and calm, Mr Ibarretxe theatricalized, and strongly criticized the judicial decision. I believe that things must always be measured. Then here is always an image that I understand that, in the end, those who define themselves as nationalists get excited. It is to speak of peoples as a moving entity, a kind of living entity that speaks with one voice and feels with one heart. I do not share that view at all. I believe more in free citizens, civil and political rights depositors, who express themselves as they wish and who do not have to think exactly as the shift guru tells them to do. That is the Euskadi and Catalonia that I defend, that of free citizens and depositors of rights, not that of collective entities that nullify any kind of difference. That's what we socialists like best to believe. Because we believe in citizenship, and because we believe in a basic concept: no one can build a nation, neither Catalan nor Basque, based on a criterion that excludes or marginalizes a part of society. There is no nation in the world to be built without a previous covenant. If there is no such covenant, if you deny even the possibility of trying the covenant, the nation, no matter how much you commit, will never exist as such. It will be a fiction, it will be an entelequia, it will be an emotional resource, it will be carried in the hearts of many people, but it will never be a nation. Make the effort of rationality, and pass it on to your Catalan colleagues, that there is no Catalonia that is built as a nation without a previous pact between Catalans. Do at least try. We're sure we'll try until the last minute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u18	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Basque Popular. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I am very sorry, I confess that it has even surprised me, that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to... That I am surprised is the least relevant thing in this House, obviously, but I say it to you: I am very surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to vote in favour of the non-law proposal presented by Bildu. I'm deeply surprised. I am deeply surprised because I believed, I believed, that the Nationalist Party was on an institutional path: in defending certain political positions, but from scrupulous respect for the law and, therefore, also from respect for the separation of powers, from respect for the norms of which we have endowed ourselves to live together. From respect for the norms we have endowed ourselves with to live with and from their defense, even from the will of change, or from the will of reform or transformation. But, well, I don't know... Mr Egibar has quoted the Lehendakari Agirre and the Republic and what happened in the Republic, but, returning to 2017, Mr Egibar, and to the exciting future ahead of us, I say again, nothing good is happening in Catalan politics, nothing good that deserves our applause and nothing good that deserves our copy, our imitation. On the contrary, Mr Egibar, we must flee from what has happened in Catalonia. We must continue on a path of recovery of political dialogue, coexistence, stability, understanding between Basques, exactly the opposite of what Mr Mas has achieved in Catalonia. Exactly the opposite. And if you share this, that after listening to him I believe not, we will be able to reach understandings and we will be able to move forward with stability and serenity. Of course, the problem with quoting people is when you only quote parts of what you like about what they say. Of course, the President of the Council of State, Mr Rubio Llorente, whom I have read and also studied and I am very interested in his opinions, because, like everything in this life, listen, he has political positions, or manifestations, some you like and others you don't. What's not worth saying is, "I'm interested in what the President of the Council of State says and I take it when I like it," but when I don't, I say that the Council of State is a body that doesn't work and has no interest. The same is not worth applauding certain court judgments when I am right, and claiming that the courts are manipulated, that they are political, when they are positioned or handed down judgments that I do not like. That, that attitude, Mr. Egibar, is the law of the jungle, from which we must flee. Because Mr. Urizar asked rhetorically, or stated, rather, "The limits are not the rules." What do you mean, no! How the rules are not going to be the limits! How the rules are not going to be our guide of functioning, coexistence and understanding! The frameworks we have set ourselves so that people who think differently can, in the public square and also in this Parliament, agree or try to agree, discussing and discussing complex aspects, which are, of course, those that affect society. Not only this, but many other complex issues. Because it is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, and I agree with you, Mr Pastor, that in June 2011 President Mas, with the rest of his advisers and a good number of Catalan Members, had to enter the Parliament of Catalonia, on the occasion of the budget debate, by helicopter. And they had to come in because there was a part of Catalan citizenship that manifested itself, in our opinion in a profoundly wrong way in the forms, but that manifested itself precisely against the policy that the Government of Catalonia was developing in economic and social matters, and that manifested itself with roundness and determination against that social and economic policy that the Government of Catalonia was developing. Listen, since June 2011, how many more times has social policy been talked about in Catalonia? Never again. Not like that. With skill – and this must be acknowledged –, with skill, the Catalan ruling caste managed to divert attention from the harmful management that was developing in Catalonia and to focus on the identity debate, to the point of extending the debate, of forcing the rope and reaching the point where we are now, a point of no return for the Catalan politicians themselves. Because, despite appeals and calls for understanding and dialogue, they have reached a point where it is difficult to say that in this epic that they have flagged, in spite of the offers of dialogue and understanding to solve the problems that the Catalan citizens really have, they no longer have the capacity to back off. And this is the real problem we face. And it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it almost doesn't matter who rules or what the appeals are. They're going to a dead end, to hit the wall. And the problem, Mr Egibar, is not that of the Government of Spain, it is not wrong, neither this one nor those who come. It is not for those who defend the law and coexistence as a norm and as a guide to operating in politics. We do not have it who believe that the observance of the law is the only way we have to understand each other, because the opposite would be to be at the dawn of the ad hoc decisions of the incumbent ruler, and that would be the law of the jungle. Citizens are often asked. It is a lie, it is a lie, it is not true that in the last Catalan elections the result has been manifest support for independence. That's not true. Please review the figures. But it doesn't matter, if I know they don't...!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u20	Ending up, Mr. Sémper...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u21	I'm done, Madam President. If you don't mind, I know! Mr. Mas doesn't care. It's true. If you don't mind, the Catalan independenceists don't care, if we know! But fortunately, in a democratic and social state of law such as ours, like Spain, above the will of Arthur Mas, above his, above mine, and that of the sursum corda, there is the democratic will expressed in the laws of which we have been endowed, which can be changed, but, that: if you do not like, you have to change them. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u23	I was going to do the surgery quietly, but the truth is, with the last shift... The truth that, predictably, in the end we have had a debate on the right to decide, a debate on the process, and above all I have heard, especially Mr Pastor and Mr Semper, talking about agreement, pact, coexistence... You said a moment ago, Mr Semper, that the Spanish Government has no problem with this. It is precisely the Government of Spain that has a big problem with this! It is precisely the central Government that must offer a bilateral framework, an agreed framework and a legal framework in order to enable those who are obviously nations within a state to decide how or how they want to fit within that state. Because obviously there are a number of national wills, which are based on a democratic principle in order to be able to decide voluntarily whether or not to join the state, and the model they want. If, one way after another, political processes are brought to justice; if, for example, laws come out of this Basque Parliament, any decision that can be taken by an autonomous parliament is made, and if, according to the most anti-democratic methods, a number of problems of coexistence and social division are not to be fostered. That, as much as you insist that it is the Catalan process that creates them, part of the responsibility has, of course, the Spanish Government's back to any kind of democratic process of right to decide and advance that wants to have a nation in its right to decide, and, of course, is one of the great provocateurs of this problem. Because one of the great provocateurs of this problem is the democratic aggravation that the Spanish Government systematically does to any people who want to decide. Apart from that, we are already clear that we are defending a plurinational state, that we are defending a plurilingual state, that we are defending the right to decide, and that we are defending the voluntary decision. We propose a common project, we propose that the peoples of the State go hand in hand, but what is not possible is to force a people to belong to a model. You must be allowed to decide. There must be no problem with asking, which – Pello has already said – Mr. Pastor seemed to have some problem with the questions. Mr. Pastor, the questions when they are agreed, when they are clear, as is the case with the Canadian model, the only thing they lead to is a democratic exercise of quality, of progress and of an advanced society. I believe that there should be no fear and no problem in doing this kind of quality democratic exercise. And, of course, make them binding, eh!; that it is not just the exercise of consulting citizens: that then it has a political effect. But when things are done in an established, agreed, bilateral and clear way, there should be no problem at all. But, as I have already commented, I believe that all these debates are going to have them in more depth in the self-government presentation, that that is the space to debate and to develop the model that we want here as well, so, for my part, I am done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u24	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Finally, Eucariats. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u25	Thank you. Although I know you know this and many other phrases by Francisco Rubio Llorente, I will read it again, because I believe that, applied to Catalonia, and after its appearance in this Parliament, it deserves to be, at least, in addition to being known, respected: "If a territorialised minority wants independence, the democratic principle" (the democratic principle, which is the combination of legality and legitimacy) "does not oppose that will formal obstacles that can be eliminated". You are in the formal obstacles. "If the Constitution prevents it, it will have to be reformed, but before it reaches that point it is necessary to find out the existence and the solidity of that supposed will. And there is no other way than that of the referendum." Because you obviously have an institutional path. And he tells me he doesn't have a problem. It is clear that, far from having opted for a line of work of democratic deepening, they have gone the opposite way. On the institutional path they still have springs: in addition to what may be the dissolution of autonomy, they also have article 8 of the Constitution, which, out of democratic decency, had to have been repealed many years ago. The political formations that agreed to this article 8, which is the equivalent of the inscription that the kings had in their cannons ("The last ratio regum", "The last reason of the kings"), is the use of force... That is enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, then you have an institutional path, you have a path. Try, because you will realize that in Catalonia, after this decade, the real engine of adherence to an independentist project has been the humiliation that has been practiced to them, a collective humiliation. Far from walking on the path of respect, dialogue and agreement, he has gone on the path of humiliation. That's why Rajoy still says he doesn't have a problem, because what they say they're going to do is illegal, and he's not going to allow it. I believe that when I come to this point, Macià and José Aguirre, the President of the General, and the other, the President of the Basque President, join with that della Rebbia. It's catalonia and it will be. And I say "Euskadi is and will be." Euskadi and Catalonia, Catalonia and Euscadi, are nations and are political and legal subjects. They have a right to determine their future. And if they are Euskadi and Catalonia, which will determine the future: People? The Catalan and the Basques? The Catalans are currently involved in a huge process. On the other side, at least, there's no one to interview them. He's in one-sided strategy because he didn't want to. Catalonia has made a wager of the two-sided strategy, but the state does not place itself, does not want to speak. Horregatik is duet of her age. Catalonia is and will be, just like Euskadi. It is and will be. Catalonia and Euskadi are nations, political and legal subjects who want to define and decide their future freely and democratically. And when we say "it is and it will be", it will be the Basques and Basques, Catalans and Catalans, who define and decide the future in a democratic way. And the democratic principle that binds bilaterality will seek the scenario of negotiation of the extremes, of what has been settled in that consultation. And it may be necessary to reduce the laces and adjustments that require independence. That is what the democratic principle requires, and that is what Rubio Llorente says here: that there can be no formal obstacles to democratic free will; that, if they are formal obstacles, we must give way and foot for that will to be contrasted. And if it is a majority, of course, not only to give way, but to serve it and to shape it in the legal order. That's what Catalonia is asking! That is the reason why, in the end, both Artur Mas and his two chiefs will be judged from the week following, in the end, to ask the people, and ask the people. He who denies consultation does not want to know the truth, and a politician, a ruler, must know the truth. The truth of Catalonia, the truth of Euskadi and the truth, if any, also of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 17; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 12.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u27	So the other proposal was accepted legally. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of Polydemos as a parlamentary group, in order to ensure the fundamental remains of life for a worthy life. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party which has made this proposal (with which we speak) Podemos. Mr Martínnez, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u28	Thank you, CEO. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There's no use for people's well-beings to live like energy and water. Power is required to maintain basic services in any house: To light it up, to climateization, for essential things, such as to preserve food, to cook it, or to have sanitary hot water. Every person ought to be satisfied with these wants, in order to speak of a worthy life for all. On the one hand, we have an economic crisis, unemployment, prevarication, and high prices of energy, and on the other, a poor substantial ephertitude of the housing. These are the extreme restrictions or disadvantages in many houses to satisfy the fundamental wants, to pay for the minimum service. This is not an acceptable situation, that a house should use more than 10% of its income for the basic supply expense. And we say it's not tolerable. We say that for a number of reasons. Because of its health effects, such as increased risk of respiratory or cardiovascular disease, or because it also affects vulnerable people, such as the elderly. We also say this because of the effects it has on the most vulnerable consumers, because it is no longer only bloody that they do not have the money to pay the bills, but in many cases they face paying the reconnection rates, with the perverse effect it has on these people. We also say this because of the effects it has on quality of life and well-being, because an excess of energy spending makes these families, these people in these situations, what they do is spend more money on energy spending and less on any other expenditure, such as education, transport, food, etc. And we also say this because of the effects it has on the environment, because households with thermal inefficiencies generate extra costs on the bill, but also a social and environmental cost overrun. It is estimated that 33% of household emissions are due to this thermal inefficiency. That's why it's so important – and so also was recognized by the Arriola councilman himself this week in his appearance at the Housing Commission – it's necessary and urgent to have a deep rehabilitation, with energy efficiency and also focused on people who are also most vulnerable, of our homes. If we translate this situation into data, the Basque Government's social needs survey itself shows a significant increase in recent years in the impact to which I have referred. For example, in 2014 people who had problems maintaining an adequate temperature in their home amounted to about 235,000, when in 2008 they did not reach 90,000. The Basque citizenship that is unable to heat its home in winter between 17 and 21 degrees, which is the temperature that experts point out is the right one, has increased by a spectacular 168 %, according to data from the Basque Government itself, since the beginning of the crisis. On the other hand, it is no less true that electricity in the Spanish State is one of the most expensive in Europe. The price of light in Spain, in the Spanish State, continues to rise above the European average. Because we could go back – and we should do that exercise – to prices and the price rise from which it was so beneficial to liberalize the electricity market, but just looking at the data from last month, January 2017, we see how 12 million consumers, those who are subject to the regulated rate, will pay on average 66 euros, compared to 52 that they would have paid or that they paid in January 2016, that is, 14 euros more, 26% more in just one year. And these increases are far above what has happened in Europe. Because we can accept that, of course, the temporary situation affects, but it is no less true that the electricity and tariff system that exists in the Spanish State, and the production of energy, favours those increases above the average. If we count from 2006 to the latest increases in small consumers' bills, we are talking about increases well above 100%. I think that the increase of more than 100% in 2016 clearly shows that this figure shows the scandal and the indecent business, at the expense of the citizenry, that have mounted the electrics. Electrics that, on the other hand, are opaque, that do not offer data to quantify the number of customers who do not pay, but the truth is that municipalities, social services, social organizations, increasingly face more cases of bills that citizens cannot afford to pay. And this is done while companies, electric companies, these big companies, have billion-dollar profits. And we agree, and we welcome this, that in this non-law proposal, in the agreement that we have reached between the four political forces, as long as state legislation is not changed, it is the Basque public institutions that face these bills, but – I say it here and we said it yesterday also in Congress – it is intolerable, and it is not tolerable that we are financing the profits of these big companies with public money. In fact, in addition to all this, this non-legislative proposal seeks to open the debate on including the situation of these energy expenditures, from a citizen's rights perspective, in the reform that will be addressed in this Parliament of the income guarantee system. Because that is our priority and we understand it this way: that there is no cut in supply, but enough already – we will say it again and, as I said before, we defend it in Congress – to pay the bill, to fatten the result account of Iberdrola, or Endesa, I don't care, any of them, with the money of everyone. A profit account with profits as laughable as 5 billion euros in 2015, and that, according to those same companies, that year gained between 20 and 30% less than the previous year. Benefits – and to put a close example, from home – that in the case of Iberdrola states that they will grow until 2020 at a rate of 6% per year. 6 % per year over EUR 2,421 million. I will give you a fact: if 0.0208 % of those benefits were used to offset the invoices we have to pay from public institutions in Euskadi, we would have solved the specific problem of the invoice, which is not the overall problem. How much effort is it for a big company like that? Where's the commitment, so cocky in the ads, that they have with the country? And where is the corporate social responsibility that they announce so much? Why is this allowed? I say whether it will have anything to do with the impunity of these electricians with the continued transfer of politicians to the governing councils of the electricians; the last known, earlier this week. And no, it is not a matter of what they decide in Madrid, which also, and it is not even a question of competences, which is also a matter of competence. It is an ideological question, it is a question of sharing a scheme of management of the public, of energy, here in Gasteiz and Madrid. A management that always moves towards the commercialization of public services and strategic sectors and the rights of citizens, such as energy. And by returning to our competence, from the Basque Parliament, in this GNP we have agreed to call for the development of our own legislation in the Basque Country, which sets out the obligation for electricity companies to communicate to the institutions the possible cuts in supply, so that the institutions can act and avoid these cuts in light. I insist, as long as state law does not prohibit such light cuts. And yesterday the "as long as the law allows" vest was put in. The law allows this: there is a law in Catalonia passed in 2015, which is not appealed by the famous Constitutional Court, which says so. We congratulate ourselves, I insist, for this. And we will also be on top of the government to get it started, and we will applaud it when it gets started, but it is no less true that without changing state legislation we will not end up definitively ensuring that there is not a single cut in Euskadi. And, apparently, state legislation has not changed, it has not changed yesterday, following the agreement of the People's Party and the Socialist Party that gave rise to the Royal Decree-Law 7/2016. Because that decree-law does not address this situation, it does not address an integral reform of the social bonus, and therefore it has not been possible to include in this transaction all that also from the group of EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. But we urge the Government of the State and Congress to legislate on this issue. We will insist with our parliamentary groups that these reforms be made, and that a basic law, the supply cuts, be prohibited by law. And, I say, is it so serious to ban in a law, in a simple law, the supply cuts in the first house? Isn't it true that the Constitution states that the economy is subject to the general interest? And isn't it of general interest that there isn't a single person in a position to be busy paying the bill for the light, even if they can't, or to be seen with the light of their first house cut off? I leave the questions there, as we do in Madrid. On the other hand, in this issue, which is called energy poverty, which is in fact nothing more than a reflection of this multidimensional phenomenon of poverty, there is a disparity in data, reports, indicators, and one of the good measures of the transaction is the establishment of clear and valid indicators to define the energy deficits that Basque citizens suffer and quantify them, in addition to evaluating the policies that have been implemented so far, and also on the basis of two European directives that come very much into play. The state and Euskak have not yet had a specific policy to face the situation in which more families and houses are suffering, in order to ensure the minimum consumption of living according to the number of members of all families and the seasons of the year. "Estaremos vigilantes, Commo así hemos dicho, de tras la testición de est PNL no sea así." On the other hand, in this partial medium, the legislature demands that the government create a specific plan, which is annually laid up in budgets, and which enables the housing to improve in respect of the neurotic science, in order to mitigate the vicissitudes of economic and cultivated economic areas, in order to facilitate the state of extreme weakness. We know, and we have also asked about their efficiency, that there have been renewed plans for a few years, and we know that we have to evaluate them, that we have to turn them around, because precisely the impoverished people are those to whom those plans should primarily be directed. That is what we have pointed out in the compromise and we will be careful to do so. Finally, and together with what I said to the principle of dealing with energy services from a perspective of rights, rights of citizenship (the right to have energy, the right to have it at a fair price, the right to never be able to cut the supply and, therefore, the right to have a decent life and housing), we also believe that the right to be informed and advised about the rates and needs of each household is indispensable, so that, in a clear and simple way, citizens can choose the best rate for them, because that is not the case right now. That is why we have introduced, and we also welcome the agreement we have had in this area, and we will also urge the Department of Consumer Affairs to provide that information and to provide that advisory service to citizens. And, to conclude, from our group we greet and congratulate ourselves on the agreement we have reached in this House. Furthermore, my first non-legislative proposal is particularly gratifying for me to end it with agreement, and then we will be careful that it can be implemented. And, moreover, that if it is put into operation in Euskadi will allow to alleviate the situation of the people who suffer these situations in Euskadi, but we will continue to have the underlying problem, and we will continue to demand, therefore, that the energy in first housing, which is necessary for any human being, is a good of first necessity. That we cannot allow, as long as there are citizens in Euskadi who cannot pay their bills, we have in Iberdrola's profit account figures of 2,421 million euros and salaries of 40,000 euros per day. That we cannot remain in the hands of an oligopoly, tolerated, when not promoted by the big parties that support the system. And that the public sector, moreover, should be the guarantor of an essential service such as energy, such as basic vital supplies. That, therefore, to conclude, we need a new energy model, both for people and for the planet. An energy model driven by the public, with a clear impulse in addition to renewable energies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u29	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing corrections to the teams of the Basque Potula Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor to express the position of the People's Group on the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, which, if I remember correctly, was entitled "measures to guarantee the basic vital supplies for a dignified life". And I say this because in the end we have ended up talking about energy poverty, because we understand that energy is the essential and indispensable common good that allows citizens to have a decent life. The term energy poverty takes little time on our agenda, approximately since 2009, when the European directive appeared, but the rest of the European countries had been implementing measures to contain it for decades. Here the opulence we carried did not let us see certain realities. They surprise certain last-minute outrages. We from the People's Group share the concern raised in the initiative and that Elkarrekin Podemos' spokesman has been transferred, but we do not share the measures raised in his initiative. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party tabled an amendment to the whole, a very clear, very clean amendment, without filling literature. On the one hand, we called on the Basque Government, as a matter of urgency, to adopt specific legislation to regulate aid for energy poverty situations in the Basque Country. On the second point, we urged the Basque Government to put in place a plan for the renovation of the Basque country's housing in order to improve its energy efficiency. It must be said that these are two initiatives that reflect the compromise amendment with a lot of literature and a lot of adornment, so as not to acknowledge that these are requests from this House more than two years ago, and what they do in the compromise amendment is to endorse the government's inaction. That's what they do on the initiative: to continue..., what they urge you to do is to continue doing what you were doing, which is nothing. Because here, if you don't know, gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, we are in Zen politics: nothing, let time pass, nothing. And there we go, and you endorse them. Let's keep doing it. I do not mean the Socialist Group's signature on this amendment, do I? We had a third point in the compromise amendment in which we urged the Government of Spain to ensure, as a result of the agreement with the rest of the political forces of the Congress, that the so-called social bonus, which addresses the situation of energy poverty, is adequately provided for and that management criteria are updated. This last point is already being implemented, because the Royal Decree was already passed on Tuesday in the Congress of Deputies: Royal Decree-Law regulating the mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond and other measures to protect vulnerable consumers of electricity. Royal Decree-Law incorporating into the Electricity Act the express prohibition of cutting off consumers in a situation of energy poverty. It is not that with your amendment you are going to prevent the light from being cut here. No way! That this is a declaration of intent, that in order to prevent the cutting of light, the law must be amended! And that is what was approved in the royal decree of Tuesday, which you did not endorse, by the way. They didn't endorse it. This royal decree guarantees that in no case in Spain will any person have a light cut for reasons of inability to cope with the bills of light. A mechanism is established for the entire national territory: at the time when an electrical supply default occurs, the company has an obligation to communicate it to the user, a fact that, although it appears to be a lie, it was not an obligation for the companies. It wasn't an obligation. And now it's an obligation to communicate. There will be many cases that will be due to various circumstances and that will administratively heal, but those that are due to inability to pay the bills go directly to social services, and that is where they are communicated, and that is where it may be that this case is already evaluated by social services or not. But don't tell me the royal decree isn't worth anything. I think they're very important facts. And I do not say this; it was said, for example, by the spokesman for the Socialist Group, which is a historic milestone to be able to modify these aspects in the law. I therefore believe that everyone should be recognized as appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, this royal decree incorporates important advances in the articulation of the Electricity Act, in the defence of the consumer, especially – as I said – of the most vulnerable consumer. In addition, this royal decree is part of the pacts agreed and endorsed by the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. This agreement seeks to involve the communities of the decree law in order to avoid electric cuts in families with few resources. On the basis of this agreement, coordination channels will be drawn up to identify, together with electricity, the vulnerable sectors and aid programmes of each community, all with the aim of ensuring supply. It is a fact that at the conference of presidents two presidents were missing, one of them our lehendakari, but the Basques do not stay out of the agreements, because the Government of Spain represents all the Spaniards and, therefore, also the Basques and Catalans, who were not there their presidents. As I said, the rights and needs of Basques were there, and also of those agreements are the Basques and Catalans. Because, ladies and gentlemen, because two chickpeas are missing, we're not gonna stop doing the cooking, are we? The chickpea will return to the spoon when it deems appropriate. I have seen the compromise amendment that they have tabled, and, as I said, Elkarrekin We can renounce the requests that the original initiative made, and what it has moved to is to be part of the comparator, as I told you, of the PNV, of "you continue to do what you did", which was nothing. So, there we are anchored. Because it is funny that the Basque Nationalist group, when going to Madrid, rejoices in saying "We have full competence, we are doing everything; it is not necessary for you to approve anything, because we are full competence, and then it is not necessary for you to do it". And then they come here and it turns out that in this compromise amendment they say, on the one hand, that the Basque Government makes regulations to take measures to alleviate energy poverty, and then they move that a law of energy poverty be made in Madrid. Hey, we're doing it here, right? Why don't we do it here? Why don't we do it here? Let's see! That's why I'm telling you that you're coming from these gentlemen. You've swallowed with everything! In other words, I really believe that the agreement that you have reached, of the initiative and of what you proposed, is vague. That is why we are going to abstain from the initiative, because we believe that, on the one hand, as I said to you, it has been two years promising the regulations that do not arrive, and that we will see if they arrive. We'll see about that. Then, in the third point, they talk about sufficiently financing the budgeted items through ESAs. Well, we already know how it is, for the umpteenth time, how the financing of the ESAs goes, how long it arrives, how the municipalities respond, etc., etc. From the People's Party and from the People's Group in the City of Vitoria, additional aid has already been proposed for situations of energy poverty, which was paid every month to people in situations..., and the Basque Nationalist group has arrived and, what does it do? He hasn't taken the help, but he pays it at six months. Hey, six months! And you in the city council support them, don't criticize him, you're delighted. Hey, they're paying you at six months! Ladies and gentlemen, it is really not just about signing initiatives, that we also have to have a judgment when it comes to implementing and what each one of us is doing. And, Mrs Red, well, it is written and I just quote, the criticisms you raised in this rostrum to the PNV Government of the non-compliances of the initiatives (and it is written, that is why I think they are objective data), and then sign an amendment with the PNV urging the Government to continue to do what you said in that rostrum and that was true, that the Basque Government did not do so. Therefore, Mrs Red, I hope that you in the Government will achieve these objectives, but I am very afraid that it does not look like this will be resolved soon. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u31	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u32	Good morning, everyone. We'll talk a lot about energy in this law, it's everybody's story. Energy has many corners, and what Enpresses pays in the history of Government, in the Gases of Garoña and Araba, the scandal of the price in all the theoretical, in the mouths of the sun's tribute, the retorical tax, and in the mouths of many, but in the leather of more and more people: According to the criteria of international health organization, in the state, 77,000 people die every year and 300 in this community. But they are esteemers, you can't tell me how many there are in this situation, because we don't pay attention to them, because they are the only ones who are concerned, because we consider it a secondary matter, because this is the case of RGI's eascal which shamed us, or one knows why, but we don't get to the point properly. According to the intermediary, more than 200,000 people are in the condition of extreme poverty. Mysterious poverty has three main reasons, and one and the essentials are poverty itself. This presupposes 80% of the extreme poverty, so it would have been inferred that poverty would have been more appropriate to speak of poverty than extreme poverty. If we do, we lose certain shades. It is true that as the general variable is poverty, it is plain that all the efforts of avoiding poverty will affect the most extreme poverty. In short, we may say that the minimum energy resources must be a variable of RGI, as far as possible, and not a part of the AES, at least in the medium of time, because it is not a coercitural problem, because it is a matter of structure (the matter comes every year). It is necessary also to pay social treatment according to the profits, but for this first, it is necessary to study deeply, and then the legislature. In this sense, we agree with the thesis proposed by the Social Party in several municipal towns. This was proposed by the socialists at the Town Hall of Ordizia: "Before this situation there are different positions on this matter: one, look elsewhere" (which is what has been done so far); "two, pose a solution of conjuncture" (which is what is being done now), "or, three, adopt structural measures that remedy dramatic situations that can be remedied with solidarity and also with legislation. Legislation that protects vulnerable consumers, considering energy supply as a basic social right, ensuring that the most vulnerable consumers have access to a social tariff based on their income and not on the market...". Depending on your income a social fee, Mrs López de Ocariz, no social bonuses. The Socialists in Madrid have accepted social bono rather than social rate, and you've forgotten to put the gas in, as it is essential to warm it. The second variable of extreme poverty is my extreme effergence in the houses. The most effective measure of the long term, as everyone says. We can find him in the standard of construction and in the remuneration companies, and he can assume 40% of the bill. And it is also the most bearable point of view. It's important, because the over-success caused by lack of science sends many people to the dogs of the poor. Or, not to fall into the mass of money, it falsifies the conditions of life, and this is here a great deal, and this produces problems of health. When Mr. Arriola said that they're going to be based on unrecognizable housing policy, we agree, but it's true that it's necessary for us to enter into the un-recognizable poverty. And even if we have to study this thoroughly, the profiles are already quite clear: she is above all a woman, especially a grown woman, who lives above all alone. Do you remember Rosa who died in Reus? We have a lot of Rosas among us, too. Third variable, it's the price of energy. For the last 10 years, the power rate has increased more than 100 percent. Look, we were supposed to be European leaders in something, so this is what we've been through. But here, in this matter, forgive me, but here I must beat you (Populanis, of course, but even socialists); the prices of energy services, and especially of scandal, have two principal reasons: one, the pitiful planning that has been in the state, the other a robbery. But everyone gives you a lot of food, and you don't interfere with the subject, sweet retirements, hundreds of thousand dollars, favours, little pushes, and it's not easy to go against it. Askori buruz hitz egin dezakegu, Josu Jon, Felipe, José Mari, zuen alderdietako buruak izandakoak aipatzearren bakarrik; dosinaka dituzue, dosinaka. Azkena izan gives, aipatuta, the registration by Spanish Electric Network of Mr Cuco Fernández de Mesa, director of the Civil Guard (180.000 euros a year, good retreat). This man whose only statements about the world of energy are remembered in Galicia, when he was government delegate in 2002, and the Prestige fell, and what he said was, "It's likely that fuel won't touch the coast." That's the right thing to say about energy. I often see you making a fool of these matters, but I think you're all equally accomplices. That's why there's nothing that can make the big emergency companies nervous. Of all you have given gifts, you have promoted, you have propelled, you have rescued many times the electricity companies, the energy companies. It is good not to forget some things, to understand the scam that is happening today with energy prices. One: 6 billion, nuclear moratorium (1982, Felipe González, with broken companies). Two: 3.6 billion undue costs of transition to competition (Aznar, 1997). And not returned, because the PSOE did not make the claim in time, when there were five (five) CNE reports saying that that money had to be returned. By the way, of that, only Iberdrola took a cut of 1.1 billion euros, and among all took more than double the sum of the cases Gürtel, Noós, Palau de la Música, Palma Arena, black cards, Pujol, Malaya, the case of the ERE... So we can get an idea of what we're talking about. Three: 8 billion payments for capacity to thermal power plants, encouraged to build in full delirium of magnitude, in the 2000s. Four: €4.7 billion to be paid in thirty years on the gas bill, for ignoring the social organizations that warned of the seismic risk where the Castor platform was wanted to be built. And, to top it off, 25 billion euros of deficit that you have to believe and swallow without doing an audit, because the oligopoly does not want. What hurts us in the background is that after all this you are going to make Iberdrola palm trees and their green bikes, in a "good pay" plan, or to plead with Sánchez Galán when he inaugurates the Torre de Iberdrola, a character who charges 42,000 euros a day, president of a plot that steals from us with full hands. And, meanwhile, normal and common people throw another blanket at their house, because light and gas have gone up and they can't afford it. And then the problem was the renewables, and then the problem was that it didn't rain, Mr. Rajoy? The problem of all this is not of Santa Barbara, so to investigate and alleviate energy poverty, indeed; social bonds and social rates, above all, yes – something that has not been done in Madrid –; housing rehabilitation programs, of course. And some measures will be adopted today, and I agree, Mrs López de Ocariz, that they are insufficient, but all this I have just said will have to be helped someday, won't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u34	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning or everyone and everyone. The truth is, I don't know where to start. He brought a prepared intervention, but, finally, he listened to what he heard... Look, Mr Otero, I don't know if it's because you have little in Parliament, but to agree on an amendment and to set the debate on fire precisely with whom you signed the amendment, I don't know if it's the right thing to have a calm and calm debate and try to argue, who you didn't want to enter into the agreement with, why..., how we can convince you. It's just that I'd have the ten minutes to address everything you've said. Look, Bildu has that way of doing politics, also forgetting a bit of the past. Because it fills his mouth talking about Felipe González (by the way, of whom I am very proud that he led my party, if I had any doubt)... When the Socialist Party brings energy poverty to this Parliament, which I do, you voted against, you, the spokesman of your group, because you understood that the solution which you are defending today, and which becomes adelicate and protagonist of the solution, was not the right one, and you voted against it. And by the vote of EH Bildu the gentlemen of the PNV won the vote. It's just that you have to look at the hemeroteca, not just the PSOE, Felipe González, Iberdrola and Josu Jon Imaz. A little bit of one's story, too, isn't it? Because, especially when one is in a government of which different political forces are part, one has to adjust the hemerotec a little bit, because we all have a little bit to swallow, but so do you. And what I tell him was when EH Bildu was EH Bildu, eh!, and they voted against. So, finally, few lessons. Although it is a bit of respect for the parliamentary work of a group like mine, which brought and put energy poverty on the political agenda of this country, we were the ones who managed to get the PNV to accept a compromise budget amendment, and because of this Red Cross was able to help more than 1,500 families, it was the Basque Socialist Party. Therefore, man, to Caesar what is Caesar's. And, of course, we are four groups that have signed an amendment... Anyway, we're not the enemy, at least at this point, even if he doesn't like Felipe González. We'll have done something right, I say! And then I want to tell Mr. Martinez, before I go to this thing I had prepared that I don't know if I'll use... You can't say the owner of "what the PSOE signs with the PP is worthless." I have to give Mrs Lopez de Ocariz the reason for that! Has the deal been read? If you want, I'll give you the summary that Mrs. Pilar Lucio, who was talking about the historical milestone, says. And there are three measures out of all that are truly important. The reform of the Electric Sector Law, which both Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu are the adalides of the movement in favor of making the change of the law, is not what the Socialist Party has signed with the People's Party, but thanks to this reform will shield families in a situation of energy poverty. You don't think so? It's just that until today they weren't shielded; they weren't contemplated. Second, another of the contributions we made to the royal decree-law was to avoid, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, that no one would be cut off from light and water. What do you think, little too? Ask one of those 1,510 Basque families who have been able to take up the budget line, if they think so little or much. That they were cut before, eh! It used to look just like where they came from, how they were, if they were older, small, with minors in charge... Anyway, he cut himself, and then he wondered what had happened. Another thing. Sectoral measures are being put in place, which have not only to do with the ministry that will make the law, but also with everything, because it is a cross-cutting issue. So, I don't think it's fair or receptional to say it's not worth anything. What happens a little to Elkarrekin Podemos, since Mr. Otero has brought the debate that we get among ourselves the ones we have signed... I'll tell him, man, that's all right. I mean, you can't come here and believe the world starts with Podemos. All the time Congress... It's true! Because I thank you for the initiative you have brought; it seems timely, it seems necessary to me and it seems good to me, and that is why I have been part of the agreement, but it is that you have come here to tell us as if nothing had ever happened here. It's like nothing was done, Mr. Otero! That if punctual, short-term, structural measures... It's like nothing was done! We've been talking about energy poverty for eight years, huh! Eight. One budget line makes two budget years, and one doubles the last budget year. Isn't that doing anything? Doing nothing is just doing banner politics, which I always tell you. I mean, a lot of things are done. That they're probably insufficient? Maybe. But you can't say that nothing is done, and more on this issue. And such discussions cannot be made using the economic difficulties that many families are experiencing. Here we are to do politics and to put in place measures that we believe can help, but what cannot be done is that we throw the stones on our roof above those we have agreed, so that Mrs López de Ocariz comes out with rosettes, because in the end she is the only one who has not signed and has come to give us here a lesson of energy, solidarity and, well, social rights of citizens, which at least makes me blush, Mrs López de Ocariz. Mrs. Lucio spoke of a historic milestone, of course. The first historical milestone is that the People's Party entered into the agreement. That was the first historic milestone, because, on December 16, all the initiatives that had gone to Congress and the Senate concerning energy poverty – and don't tell me no, because I can send you a script of all – had been laid down by Mr Rajoy's absolute majority government. It's just that not one of them had saved! So it is good that you have come to the agreement, but what cannot be done is that you now seem to be the protagonists of this new situation. The Socialist Party supports policies when it understands that this is for the benefit of the citizens, but, Mrs López de Ocariz, if the People's Party, for the misfortune of the citizens, had again had an absolute majority, you neither a royal decree-law, nor a measure, nor talk to the supplying companies, nor anything at all. And you know it perfectly well. Because you too are one of those who always vote against when certain issues come in. And then you say to me, "How did Mrs. Red, after those reproaches...?". Yeah, yeah, let's keep doing when they're not doing anything. Look, with six points in this amendment, there is only one that speaks of urging the Basque Government to continue to guarantee. Do you know why you keep "guaranteeing"? Because there are 400,000 euros placed by the Basque socialists that guarantee that families will continue to be helped through the Red Cross Convention. Sure, let's keep going, 'cause we want you to keep doing it. And do you know why we say follow, and I also answer Mr. Otero? Because we were in the opposition before, and today we are in the government. And since we are in the government we know that the PNV will comply, because that is what we are for. Because the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group says that I do not give up on anything I said a year ago, nor two or eight years ago, when I first brought up the subject of energy poverty. But what can't be is that here... First of all, I think we should flee, on this subject and in most of them, from the protagonists, but I will also not allow lessons to be learned, some because they say that we do nothing and they are punctual or short-term measures, others because they discovered energy poverty the day they took it to the Congress of Deputies, when some of us have been working on this for years and years. Others because, as they have lost the absolute majority, they hang by force, and have had to enter into the agreement with the socialists. Because they have difficulties with this of the agreement, and we have entered into this agreement, as I said to Mr Martínez, introducing measures that really involve solutions. But what is clear is that, if we talk about energy poverty in this Parliament, there is one party that has brought it in more than twenty times; if there is one budget item and one next is because the Socialist Party has agreed on two occasions. We'll see about that! By their deeds you will know them, they say! Let's see how this legislature is going, let's see what agreements we're able to reach, but let's not forget the past and pretend to throw away the other things, that if Felipe González is in no way... Look, here we are in the Basque Parliament (which you so much like to talk about competences and Euskadi, and that you don't care about the state and I don't know what...), here we are to fix the issue of energy poverty in Euskadi. We have agreed with those who truly know the countryside and work in the area of poverty, in this case with the Red Cross. They were the ones who knew who the needy were on this issue and they are the ones who are acting. We know the memory they have presented regarding the performance they have done with public money. So what I think we should do is push the solution and stop putting sticks on the wheels. I believe that today is a day of celebration, bearing in mind that of five parliamentary groups, four of us have signed it. I knew that the People's Party was not going to sign it, nor expected it, but, well, that we all signed it and that the Basque Nationalist Party is signing the commitment that it is already fulfilling, so, well, it seems to me that it is not for us to be all the time influencing what separates us. And I think what unites us today is far more important than any kind of discrepancy. I too want a new law on the electricity sector to be made, I also want electricity to be a citizen's right, I also want us to continue working to make energy poverty stop being that face of poverty, but it is also fair to recognize things when they do well. And this Parliament, before many parliaments, put a budget item on the table. This Autonomous Community caters to more families, as a percentage of the population, than any autonomous community. And there is a very broad political agreement with a view to pursuing this kind of policy. So, let's just stay there, think about who the recipients of that help are, and stop talking about things that have nothing to do with this, trying to find enemies where there are none. Therefore, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has signed a royal decree-law with the People's Party on issues that shield poor families, which prevents light and water from being cut off. And that had not been achieved so far, however much there were Parliamentarians from Bildu in their different ways in all the legislatures, as much as Podemos was, as much as there were others. So let us recognize things as they are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u35	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u36	The head of the table, chief of the department, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature. The use of human rights, liberty, and human dignity is in the heart of the social and political life of the people. On account of his character, every man deserves a respect due to human dignity. In Euskadi until very few years ago, energy poverty has been a relatively unknown phenomenon. Today, as we are seeing throughout this debate, there is no doubt that there exists, even if, with its problems, this community is one of the least vulnerable. As I say, an unknown problem in our environment until recently; another of the consequences of this economic crisis which has generally reduced people's disposable income levels. Mainly it appears as a consequence of the lack of sufficient economic resources, but it can also be the result of poor objective housing conditions, or the excessive price of energy resources. As the Ararteko report presented just a year ago says, energy poverty is a raw reality, often masked in broader situations of poverty and precariousness. It goes along the same lines as other studies on energy poverty in our environment, where it is said that energy poverty is not an isolated phenomenon, but a face of the multidimensional reality of poverty. It is therefore an obligation of this Government to deal with it, just as it is obliged to respond to the different manifestations and sectoral consequences of poverty, which are particularly evident among the most vulnerable sectors. That we have a way to go about energy poverty? Yeah, sure. But it is no less true that if we look back in time, and around geographically, we have a long way to go. Thanks to our institutions (the Basque Government of course, but also to the parliaments and municipalities, which in the last forty years have not always been in the same hands), they have been strong with the weak, and in this society there has been a social sense that has always tried to keep nobody behind. Poverty depends not only on economic income but also on access to services. At the moment, on the one hand, I want to give importance to the agreement reached. I am not going to judge any of the positions that have been raised before, and I would like to emphasise that the four signatory groups have been able to put aside maximalist positions and prioritise the agreement. I think the subject we are dealing with deserves it. And I believe that for the first time in this Parliament, too, there is such a qualified majority in agreeing on the direction to be followed in the coming years. I believe that the agreed transaction is a comprehensive and effective response to what has been proposed by the Ararteko about a year ago. With today's initiative, we urge the Government to establish a comprehensive plan against energy poverty, from an integrated perspective. We ask you to investigate, analyze and get to work to detect the manifestations of the problem. We ask you, from the conviction that energy poverty deserves special attention, to develop the possibilities that the current framework gives us in the field of the electricity sector. We request that you continue to provide financial assistance to those in need; that the most vulnerable people be informed, cared for, accompanied and protected in their rights. We urge you to regenerate housing with parameters of efficiency and sustainability. But I also want to stress at this time that we do not start from scratch. This community, although it does not have specific legislation in this area, is, as I said earlier, among the least vulnerable in our environment. I insist, today we do not start from scratch: 40% of the total money for social action is provided in this country, when we are only 5% of the state's population. Each with its own particularities, but initiatives such as GIR or ESAs have helped and help to alleviate this situation: in 2015, 44% of the 10 million earmarked for social emergency aid was spent on energy poverty-related expenditure. That is why recently, just a few days ago, the decree of AES was amended and improved in this regard. Furthermore, as Mrs Red pointed out, we have been in agreement with the Red Cross for two years now to be able to help those who, for whatever reason, cannot access these measures. And another issue that is not better: agreements have been reached with electricity companies to avoid supply cuts to those who cannot cope with payments. And that is because there have been structural measures in this country for years to prevent poverty, including energy: policies for the rehabilitation of existing buildings, policies for information and advice to energy consumers, etc., etc. That is why not only the Department of Social Affairs, but also the Department of Housing and Economic Development, the Basque Energy Agency, Kontsumobide, and a long time ago, have been helping in different ways to alleviate the causes and consequences of this problem. That is why we are starting today from a privileged position to achieve all the necessary improvements. In the opinion of EAJ-PNV, it is a way of living together, of sharing resources and values, and of respecting and understanding the differences in society. Now, to be able to practise requires social justice, and also demands the development of public policies for the most effective use of the inclution and the rights of the community, accompanied by the initiative in favor of the weakest ranks of society, including the most energetic poverty. Mila esker, andrea president.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u38	Mrs López de Ocariz, don't worry, I've been indignant for over fifteen years. And also organized to transform that indignation into laws that change people's lives, don't worry. What we have done in this agreement is that the elements that Mr Grajales and Mrs Natalia Rojo were specifying, that there are elements that are made in Euskadi, is to convert that and develop a specific regulation that includes all that. And if everything we have agreed on in this non-legislative proposal does not come to pass we will be in this Parliament to demand it from the government. What is also missing is the light to warm up those chickpeas that you said, many people lack that energy, and that is what does not fully address the decree that has been passed (and also by decree) in Congress, which has been given the approval. Because that decree leaves out all people who are not in social services, and leaves out all people who are not in the social bonus; it does not include income criteria. Moreover, the approval procedure itself (first, by decree, and not in Parliament) leaves out the possibility of contributions from the rest of the groups. It does not include a procedure for banning light-cutting, nor does it include something that we are going to develop or that we have approved or that we are going to approve today, which is the construction of a vulnerable consumer typology. And it also does not include gas or butane, for example, in that decree. We asked the President of the Government five questions. A cost audit, he said no. Taxing the fallen profits from heaven, he said no. To recover the management of hydroelectric plants from the public sector, he said no. To repeal the sun's tax, he said no. And to lower VAT to electricity, he said no. Those are the answers of the general secretary of his party. The ESAs obviously know the problems they have, and that is why we have introduced them sufficiently. That's why I find it surprising what he's saying. And, I insist, if the government doesn't comply, we'll be here to claim it. And, Mrs Natalia Rojo, of course we have reached agreements, and I have said and insisted that I congratulate and congratulate all groups for having reached that agreement. But nothing happens either, and I also said this the first time I spoke in this plenary, for pointing out the differences that we have. I believe that we must agree on what we agree on or on what measures we can agree on today; that, I insist, is not my programme of ceilings, it is not our programme of ceilings, we would already like to, but we have reached an agreement that we value it. But we must also point out the differences, and that is why the Socialist Party also claimed responsibility for having passed that decree (and also for abstaining from the Basque Nationalist Party) of that decree, which seems to us to be totally inadequate. And that's why we voted against it. I think it is necessary to shield the families suffering from this poverty, obviously, but it is that the decree does not point out, does not determine, does not define who they are. That decree does not define itself, and that is why we will also contribute to it in Euskadi. And I think it's such an easy decree to make, by decree if you want, we even give that prerogative to the government if you want to do it, that you don't do it by law... The adoption of a law, prohibiting the cutting of supplies in the first house. I don't think it's that hard. I don't think it's as difficult as the ban on evictions in first homes. We believe that in the first house everything has to be guaranteed. And of course we knew of the initiative, if I recall correctly, that in 2014 you brought this Parliament. And, as we are not new in politics, I will teach you, at the Congress of Deputies in 2013 our parliamentary group, which was at that time, that of the Plural Left, also presented. In addition, an initiative that your group, if I am not mistaken, voted in favour of, a law to prevent energy poverty. A law that did include all that we are talking about: that included the public price system; concession, which will be based on family income, of the social bonus; vital consumption in monthly calculation; that the cost goes to energy-providing companies; winter truce; a plan against energy poverty; a priority, for households affected by energy poverty, for reform; reduced VAT; also included gas, electricity and butane at the household level, and also included a clause to claim corporate social responsibility. That did include it, and the decree they passed on Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken, in Congress does not include it. And that's why we told him. We therefore welcome today's agreement, and we will be on top of it to ensure that it is implemented. But, I insist, it is not enough, and in Congress our groups (that of EH Bildu, that of PSOE, that of PP, that of PNV, that of Unite Podemos) will have to be also, in order for that reform of the electrical system, in order for that prohibition of the cuts of supply in the first house, to be effective. Because until then we will not finish solving the problem of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u39	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the policy is to find solutions, not to create problems. In this case the objective is to care for those consumers who cannot pay for the receipt of the light. They are people who are in the field of social workers, social services in the autonomous communities, local governments. The Government of Spain can, and has done, amend the Act, which is not easy, the Energy Act. This decree-law amends the law in very important aspects in order not to allow the cut of supply, the advance notice, the social care, the period of four months for your attention... Structural measures are only corrected by legislation. The indexes, new indexes, that is not a structural measure, and the indexes say so in the European directive. Yes, it does. There are documents that mark the indexes. Why do you, who have not explained this to me, give up making this House a law of energy poverty? What's the reason they quit? It is that they have not explained it, and that says expressly in one of the points. I say, you urge the Government of Spain to make a law on poverty, you urge the Basque Government to make a regulation, and you are unable to explain why there cannot be a law on energy poverty in this Autonomous Community in that regulation. I have to say, Mrs Rojo, that the Spanish Government has been acting on measures for years. For example, in addition to the social bonus, which has now been modified, and I believe that it is much more rigorous and can cater for many more people than it has so far, it is defined and will be defined by regulation the vulnerable or particularly vulnerable consumer or in special circumstances. It's going to be defined. You know that the rules remain, that the regulations are being worked on; therefore, yes. And we're talking about a royal decree-law. It is law: royal decree law. So, we're talking about law. As I said, a EUR 260 million National Energy Efficiency Fund has also been set up. In the end, what it contributes to is to reduce the energy consumption of families, and this is an energy saving. Mrs. Red said she didn't say anything about continuing to guarantee. I will tell you the amendment that you signed, which you presented with the Basque Nationalist group: of four points, in three it says "promote a regulation", which has already been promoting for two years, "continue to guarantee" before the following budget headings, and "continue to favour". "Follow." "Follow." I believe that they will have to make an unfailing effort to get this government really to put its batteries on, because it has no will. He has no will! He's already proved it. And it gives me the impression, heard the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group, that everything seems fantastic. Well, gentlemen of the group that supports the Government, you have a very good job ahead of you. Unprovoked. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u41	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. From EH collect, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u42	Yes, thank you. The agreement of some things and the fact that we have signed the transaction doesn't mean that we have to agree with everything on this subject. And it seems to me that it's important, because in this case, more than the Social Party, you're working like a vitalist party. Spainian sinatu duzuen bono sozialak ez du, zuk esan duzun bezala, will not shield families who are in a state of energy poverty. That is far from the reality, because it is pending further regulatory development, and what has been said is that it will only be done..., it will not be possible to cut off the light to those who are in a situation of extreme energy vulnerability. The rest, no. The rest will be able to be cut by four months. And besides that, nothing is said in the decree about gas, and gas is 60% of the heat and energy problems in this community and in the country, okay? So she's not going anywhere, and I'm also telling Mrs. López de Ocariz, who's not solving anything. On the other hand, I also think it is important to remember that, it is true, Euskal Herria Bildu has some problems in entering the debate on energy poverty, because – and I think you have represented it very well – it is precisely what we fear that they are always taking him to the side of welfareism. If the debate on energy poverty has any interest, it is because it has two elements, namely energy efficiency and the price of light, the price of the price of energy products, to which, by the way, you have never mentioned either the People's Party or the Socialist Party or the Nationalist Party, I insist that because that makes some companies that you do not want to get involved with nervous. Then they take it all to the side of poverty, but in the worst sense. And I also criticize it because, when there's someone who puts something in a structural sense, you're in charge of getting it neutralized. That is, when we proposed in the amendment that, in order to respond to the structural problem of energy poverty, emergency strategies should be abandoned, a perspective of law and protection should be put in place, and from this perspective the supply guaranteed, including in the income guarantee system the variable of energy vulnerability. That's where our speech goes, but you haven't gotten into this speech. You're talking about the Red Cross, which we don't say we don't have to spend that money on people who stay out of focus. You guys talk about ESAs... But at no point are we getting in..., I don't know how to say, run where it has to go, regardless of whether there are some things about definition that are important and collected, but there is no structural solution being given. Okay. Mr. Gleavoris, "comunidad de las menos vulnerables de nunstro entorno." Please, you've got another turn. Tell me what's a "nuestro entorno." As far as I know, thief, in Lower Navarro, poverty in Zubera is much smaller than this one, so when you say "nostro entorno," please check what you're talking about. And one more thing: you say also, "that if we look back in time, that is, if we look at it five years ago, my poor poverty was much less than today." So, "We've done so much..." What? That we have many more poor things nowadays? Is that what you're talking about? I don't think so, do I? What good is it for us to have certain measures now, those which weren't then, when there were 80,000 poor people, and now we have 2400,000? It seems to me, then, that you also ought to extract from this appreciable scheme, when you speak of poverty, especially of poverty, and how to avoid it. And if we have to put the shades in, let us put them in for the use of the spiritual science of the housing, and let us go and do something for once, as I said in the first Intervention, for the price of the illumination is the price of the illumination, or the price of energy, if poverty enters into any degree, which is the variable which we must touch, and you have said nothing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Ms. Rojo, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u44	Thank you, President, again. Indeed, Mr Martínez, it is not my programme of maximums either, but neither in this proposal of law nor certainly in the majority, because I have been here for a few years and I think that I have never voted for my original initiative, mine alone with myself. You always have to agree, and the pact has what it has, that we all have to leave hairs in the catera, because indeed, if we all armor ourselves in our own, then complicated. Indeed, if I, Natalia Rojo, or the Socialist Party of Euskadi, had to do their initiative with their points to agree on, and whatever was accepted in Euskadi, then something else would be, indeed. But here we come to agree also, and to do what Mrs López de Ocariz wants, to seek solutions and not to create problems, also to make the policy as possible, and not to put ourselves in things and in great headlines and in great slogans, which when you go down to the reality of politics, and of management policy, can therefore not be carried out. Therefore, that I share with you. And I also think that you end up giving me the right, because you have even acknowledged that the Socialist Party voted for an initiative in Congress, to which you have referred. See if we are committed to the issue, that we not only defend our initiatives, that we even vote for them. That we didn't just get to the point! Therefore, I want to say that we defend this subject when proposed by the Socialist Party, when in that case it was proposed by another party, and when Elkarrekin Podemos brings him here today. Because we don't change our minds as to who brings the initiative, because we know that we set ourselves goals in the policy as much as possible, especially with families who in this case cannot pay bills. Then I would tell Mrs López de Ocariz why we have renounced the law of energy poverty. It is good that when it was proposed, before an agreement, you would vote against it, and now you ask for it too. This is really good! Why? Because we have committed a new regulatory framework, and it is necessary to see how the regulatory framework is left in order to then begin to see what things can be derived from it. Because you know perfectly well that there are things that Euskadi cannot do, such as intervene in electricity tariffs, Mr Otero. Because you've gone to the debate that it would be very good for Oscar Matute to take to the Congress of Deputies, but here we come... It seems good to me that you speak of Spain, that Spain which so horrifies you but which you only speak of. That Congress of Deputies, which for you is the devil with legs, but then here you only talk about the Congress of Deputies, the central government... That is very good, but I want to come here and ask Mr Urkullu as a lehendakari, and the government in which my party is in, to do politics for the Basque citizens. And there, on the subject of energy policy, I also want things to be done, but that we do not believe false hopes to the Basque citizen, that we do not tell them that we are going to make laws that the Spanish Government is going to bring to the courts, because we are entering into competences that are not ours, and that we are taking our Statute and with our own competences we are putting political tools in place. That's what I think we should do. And in those things that you say, that when you go to the structural the others we almost stay in birds and flowers, my question is this: why do you sign the agreement? It's just that of all his first intervention and the second... Good thing we signed before we started talking, because after hearing from you not once, but two, you don't believe the deal! That I wanted more? I too am more ambitious than what we have agreed! But what I am not going to do either is, in the face of an agreement signed in this case by individual people, but representing the political will of a party, those who sign it will destroy the content of the agreement. If you asked me, a lot of things I would say about this, and probably all the parties, but, man, you have to be responsible for what you sign. And if I didn't believe you didn't sign it, what do you want me to tell you? If you believe that what you were proposing was structural, cyclical, and solved the world of energy poverty, and it seems to you that ours was birds and flowers... Natalia Rojo wouldn't have signed, for example. I wouldn't have signed it, because I sign what I believe. Because the agreements signed represent much more than a signature at a point in time. An agreement is signed that you think you're defending, and then you have to come to the rostrum and it looks like you believe it, though. And you have truly signed a role that is not believed. Because it may seem little to me, too, but I would like to ask the Basque Government, within its remit, to put in place possible solutions for a concrete reality. Because when we define concepts, we go to Madrid and ask them to start with the electric fare, we tell Felipe González, Josu Jon Imaz and all of them to go where they are and not to do what you think is so horrible that they do..., to the Basque families, 1,510 families, no one would have helped them pay for the light and gas. And, Mr. Martinez, you do say the agreement with the PSOE that the light and gas will not be cut. Yes, he does. I can give you a summary that my party kindly sent me from Madrid, because I see that yours have omitted that part. And then something else (and I'm done, president). The theme of the Red Cross is not to name the Red Cross for wanting to take away our responsibilities. It is the recognition of the work they are doing, because they receive at their doors families and citizens who never go to basic social services. We have to download the municipalities on this issue, because there are families who would never go to basic social services, because they are not within the ESAs, they cannot accept those aids that our public service already has, but they need a push to reach the end of the month. My appointment to the Red Cross is the recognition of the work well done, of who makes a memory of what he has done to explain what public money has been spent on, and what I think is that, far from pretending to run away from responsibilities, is to do what one has to do and recognize to each one what he does well. And Red Cross has done a very good job.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u45	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u46	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs López de Ocariz, but why do we need a Basque law of energy poverty? If it looks like Mr. Rajoy fixed everything for us on Tuesday! Energy poverty, if children are neglected, that of women, that of young people, that of the elderly... My God, he must have done it all this week! Have you come to teach us, after twenty years, of the active policies in the field of social action that this government and the previous ones have put in place, the parliaments, the municipalities, when, at this moment, as I said in the previous point, 40% of the social expenditure of the whole State is given only in this Autonomous Community, which does not reach 5% of the population of the State? Will you come and teach us how to fight poverty? Finally, the day you see in Madrid RGI, the day you see AES in Madrid, so you may have to recognize it. I don't think he's playing today. I believe that with what you have done on Tuesday you are far from attacking poverty in a structural way, and energy in particular as well. I'm not saying it's no better than what's been done, but they're far away. Mr. Otero, you should talk about this. You decide what you say and I decide what we say. You came here today to mark the differences we have, and my intention has been quite contrary, as far as the agreement has been concerned, to give a value to that agreement, because I value the agreements. I don't know what value you give them. No one, I've said it before... We have all given up on maximalism, we could all have been perhaps more ambitious, and we would all like another set of things. Of course we'd like to focus on prices! We will have an opportunity to talk about this in this House too shortly. Of course we'd like to focus! We probably wouldn't do it like you, but we don't have that legal capacity right now. He says, "You must have spoken, as I say, of the price of light." Jo! Electric companies may be an oligopoly, but the monopoly of purity in this Parliament is yours, eh! Zuek bai zaretela fatezez garbiak edozein kontuan! "Let's also talk about efficiency." Then we'll talk! I don't know if we talk as much as you do, but we do. Or doesn't the Basque Energy Agency do anything today? Or does the Department of Housing do nothing for energy efficiency? Or have the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party not committed themselves in the government agreement to bring an energy sustainability law before this House as soon as possible? Well, we don't like to talk as much as you do, but we like to do it! We're not so much behind the banner, we're not so much behind the slogan, but we do day by day. And I'm done. He used to say, "Definite me about the environment." Two things I'm going to tell you in this regard. One: I am not concerned, in social matters, about comparing myself to any environment around me, be it Spanish, be it European, be it French. I don't care. We usually win in most indicators, also in these, although at the moment we don't have them grouped together. Eta bigarrenik: Lapurdi, Zuberoa age Baxe Nafarroa ez will say gure ingurua; gure herria will say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u48	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "As the Socialists made parlamentary groups of Americans, the reopening of the nuclear Plant in Garoña. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, it's yours to introduce the word to the initiative and take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u49	Thank you, President. Once again, we are bringing back to the Basque Parliament the issue of the reopening of Garoña. Garoña is neither reopened nor should it serve as a nuclear warehouse, and the decision to do so is political, purely political. It was a political decision, energy and environmental policy, that a government decided to paralyze the activity; it was a political decision not to extend permits beyond the projected useful life for power plants, and it was a political decision to open a process of energy transition to safer sources. All these political decisions were taken by a socialist government, that of Rodríguez Zapatero, which not only had the support of a majority in the Congress of Deputies, in the Basque Parliament, in the General Councils of Álava and in the City Council of Vitoria. In addition to majorities, it had a clamorous social support. Few political decisions are made like this. And it was a political decision of the People's Party government to disband all of this, using in its day that absolute majority it had for four years and that it seems to ignore that it has already lost, wanting to hide itself in a possible future report of the Nuclear Security Council. Go ahead with that position, because we can lose ourselves in this forum in a technical debate that I hope will not happen. There will be some who are interested in this, not us, because when the Socialist Group registered this initiative in November it did so from the conviction that it was necessary to reaffirm itself in one position. Not by repeating past discussions: there were new factors that we thought would make it necessary. A reopening of the administrative file justified by interests outside of the energy and environmental policy that is pending clarification. A new composition of the Congress of Deputies, with a majority of parties that we have carried in our electoral programs the commitment to keep the facilities closed. A new composition in this Parliament, with the incorporation of a new group, which we also carried mostly in our commitment to the citizens to defend the definitive closure of the facilities. Therefore, in order to strengthen the position, we chose to register this proposal for discussion. We did so from the literality of what we agreed a year ago and which was the unanimous support of the House, with the exception of a single Member who abstained, representing a party that is not here now. And we thought now that unanimity was going to be blunt, but we don't think so. We see that not because we are not on the eve of municipal elections, in which a mayor and at the same time a parliamentarian seeks his re-election; nor are we on the eve of general or autonomous elections in which to take into account an issue that has mobilized so much the Alaves society in all its plurality with the sole and shared slogan of closing demand. We are no longer on the eve of elections, it is true, but some of us remain committed to what we have committed to the citizens. It is your decision, and in turn it will be up to you to explain whether or not you are going to vote on the amendment negotiated by four parliamentary groups. It is true that certain points have been introduced in the process of amendments. That had already happened in previous debates, and what we had achieved was a position that could be shared by all and without buts. That is what we wanted to assert, and – most importantly – that this Parliament once again united its voice in insisting on no to Garoña. I have said from the outset that it is a political issue, but not so much because of the politicization of the Nuclear Security Council, that we have already said on previous occasions that this profile should be changed to a professional profile. We have said it and we repeat it: it is political because, say what that body says and say what that report says, the ultimate competence over the administrative file lies with the Government of Spain and will be taken up by a Council of Ministers. Obviously, if the Nuclear Security Council were to determine risks, the Government, with the exception of supine irresponsibility, must resolve this issue. But even if the Council's conclusion was that there are no risks, a political majority and a social majority are clear that we are betting on an energy model that moves away from nuclear production. Because technical reports for or against reopening will be found, and especially if we look for them. In recent days we have been able to read in various media some articles by experts in this field that defend the reopening, that speak of full security, that speak of it as a clean energy. We've been able to read it, but it's just that we've read it before. But we have already decided something else politically. And the worrying thing is that in some of these opinions, even the idea that the electric bill would be cheaper if those facilities were kept, and that's just as much like lying to the citizen who can read the news. Because we all know that it is not; that Garoña, apart from the reasons for rejection, of risk on things that no expert can avoid on waste, is not necessary for energy production, and its functioning does not affect what consumers pay. As they also slide us that renewable energies are more expensive. They are more expensive especially because there is a government in Spain, the Rajoy government, which punishes fiscally those who decide to produce their own energy. Because if you were to bet decisively on those sources, we could talk about relieving household bills. What we would like is an energy policy that would encourage producers to bet decisively on these natural energies, that would bet on research and innovation to reduce the way they obtain energy in a cleaner way, that would provide consumers with mechanisms that would make them aware of the origin of the energy they use to be partners in this strategy. In short, in principle, another government would be needed in Spain, a government with the intention of facing the future. But we continue with a government anchored in the past (on energy issues and on others, but on this as well). It's much less effort than innovation. We want to say to that Government from the Basque Parliament that it does not take a decision that is alien to the interests and will of the citizens; that it reverses its efforts to offer employment and development alternatives to the region that is going to be affected by the definitive closure of Garoña's activity; that it does not attempt to counter the undoubted effect of that decision in that region with the demand we are making. Because confronting citizens among themselves is a strategy that has undesirable consequences. We ask the Government of Spain not to return to the decree, which is what it likes most, but out of conviction, yes, because its decisions can be reversed by a different majority in Congress. And we ask you to take advantage of this open debate to bring about a change in the way the Nuclear Security Council functions. If these demands are not met, then we will continue to defend the definitive closure of Garoña in all instances. My party has already announced it, it has not been the only party that has done it, and today we share it with the rest of the groups that want to join. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u50	Thank you, Miss Rojo. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u51	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Garoña's story seems to be an endless story. The old nuclear plant is retarded and dangerous in our hands, and it's expensive, like all nuclear energy. For this reason the question is: Why can't we just shut Garoña down once and for all? The question is, what do we need to keep Garoña open for? And the answer is obvious: for nothing. Nuclear energy in Spain is already indispensible. The peninsular electric system has a capacity to produce electricity that triples the maximum requirements that can be recorded on the most demanding day of the year. Therefore, there is no risk of supply interruptions if Garoña remains closed, just as there would be if the rest of the country's nuclear power were shut down, something that Unite Podemos has recently demanded in the Congress of Deputies. It has been shown this winter that the only country that has suffered widespread light cuts across Europe is the country with the highest nuclear dependence in the European Union, i.e. France. Furthermore, the cost of nuclear energy, as Mrs Red said, is higher than that of wind and water. If we want the price of electricity to fall once and for all, we should bet on clean energies and not on the energies of the past. So why do you want to keep the girl open? And here are three fundamental answers. The first is to create a precedent. Girl is not the target, but the excuse. It's the excuse, because, if Garoña is extended, the other nuclear power plants in the state will come behind. And we must not lose sight of the fact that the Spanish nuclear fleet is approaching the end of its useful life in the next ten years. But, of course, in this way it turns to the bourgeois and alavese citizenship, and to the Basque in general, into guinea pigs of the overall energy strategies of the companies. The second reason why it is intended to keep Garoña open is to express the business to the maximum. Girl, as we all know, she's already amortized. This means that it can produce electricity at a much lower price than the actual cost. Among other reasons, it can do so because the cost of managing radioactive waste is paid among all citizens, with the money collected for years for Enresa on the bill of light. In these conditions also comes into play the perverse electric auction, designed in its day by the Government of Spain hand-in-hand with electrics, which sets the final price of electricity from the highest cost of production. This means that the business for Nuclenor is round: it will produce almost free, and it will sell expensive, as expensive as possible. Although the situations of energy poverty to which we have already referred at the previous point will then arise. Because one thing is the causes and the other the consequences, and now we're in the causes. And let us also take into account that the necessary reforms that have been published in the media for the reopening of Garoña involve an investment of between 150 and 200 million euros, which will have to be amortized in about ten or twelve years. Let us then come to an idea of what order the benefits that Nuclenor intends to achieve within that time frame are to amortize that investment. But the most worrying thing is that, if the extension is granted and it is not implemented, the owner companies will possibly be entitled to claim million-dollar compensation for the loss of profits arising from not having been able to reopen it. That said: a round business, and a precedent for the next nuclear shutdowns planned in the state. The third reason why we want to keep Garoña open is so that we can keep the temporary storage of nuclear waste that exists right now on the premises of the plant. Because, in the absence of a centralized warehouse throughout Spain, the solution of the central government is to leave the waste in the plants themselves. And this decision in itself not only entails the extension of the life of the warehouse, but also extends the risk to which all the citizens of the Ebro Valley will be subjected, from Tobalina to Tortosa. At this point, the question is who wants to keep Garoña open. And the answer seems obvious: Garoña will reopen on the initiative of the owner companies, but not just on that initiative. These companies have not only limited themselves to submitting the application, but have moved the necessary threads and touched the rotating doors that were needed to achieve their objective. Because the report issued last week by the Nuclear Security Council is not a novelty, everyone knew it would be favorable. It was known since the Nuclear Security Council ceased to be an independent body and became an accomplice to the nuclear industry. And as long as the politicization of the Nuclear Security Council is maintained, there is no longer a cage for lions. The technicians, who were tamers, are gagged, and the wild beasts camp free. So, who can shut down Garoña permanently? Well, in today's non-legislative proposal, there is a request to the Spanish Government to act and prevent reopening, but we have no confidence in that result. It will not be the central government that closes it. When there are business interests through, there are no surprises, and luck is cast in this sense. Therefore, the only way out left for this country, if it wants the plant to close, is to pressure the owner companies, Iberdrola and Endesa, to voluntarily renounce the reopening. And here we have two ways. The first would be for some parties represented in this House to take advantage for once of their rotating doors for the benefit of the citizenry, and not the other way around. For example, that the People's Party should speak with Angel Acebes, who is in Iberdrola, or with José María Aznar who is in Endesa, and ask them, in effect, to comply with the request of the citizenry and to shut down the nuclear power plant. But they won't. We therefore have to resort to a second way, and it is that this Parliament takes, once and for all, letters on the matter and takes the lead in the closure that the Basque Government has never wanted to take, and that all legal and legal means be studied to appeal to the appropriate state and European authorities to reopen, to defend the right of Basque citizens to live safe and without threats. Thirdly, it is important for Parliament itself and also for the government to renounce once and for all also to acquire electricity from nuclear sources, because, ultimately, the only language understood by the capitalist enterprise is that the business is over. In conclusion, and to conclude, I would like to stress from Elkarrekin that there is no point in keeping open a nuclear power plant of almost fifty years old, which is twin to that of Fukushima and to other plants that in Belgium have already been closed for having serious fissures and serious technical defects, and that this plant also needs profound reforms to be back in operation, but I would like to stress that not to be safe. Because it's not the same operational being as being safe. Secondly, I would like to argue that extending the life of nuclear power means putting the economic interest of private electricity companies before the collective security of people and the environment, and that is unacceptable. Finally, we must consider Garoña's account as an end, and in that way the black history of nuclear energy, a history that is once shut up, dangerous, and threatening. We have to give clean energy to build a bright future in this country now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ramírez-Ecudero, your word is yours. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Mr. President, chief of departments, good morning to all of you. Four years from the beginning it has been proved that the nuclear production in Garoña is not necessary for the electric system, and four years later the nuclear Plant of Garoña is still older and even more dangerous. So let's shut it down once and for all. A year has passed since the last debate in this Parliament on Garoña and there have not been many changes, except that the passage of time has already given us four years of Garoña, and also that we have a little closer to our heads the threat that next week it is possible for the Nuclear Security Council to make a report favourable to the reopening of Garoña. Although that threat has always been pending on the subject of Garoña. Let us start with economic data, although we will put a lot of emphasis on security. We want Garoña to be closed for the safety of 300,000 Alaves living in the vicinity of the plant, and we believe that this is the maximum argument that we can make when we ask for a definitive closure of Garoña. But there are also economic data. No one has heard from the economic point of view of Garoña's closure. Ownership companies continue to win in their balance sheets, year after year, more than the previous year, despite Garoña's closure. Shareholders, in direct proportion to profits, continue to have higher dividends year after year, despite Garoña's closure. And even the Spanish Minister of Industry a week ago, in an attempt to justify the increase in electricity tariffs, spoke of the possibility that there might have been a source, which was the temporary closure of three French nuclear power plants. In other words, the same Spanish minister did not even remember that Garoña was closed, nor did he use that occasion to talk about that Garoña could have a certain part of guilt in the increase in tariffs. It is a fault you do not have, because we all know that you contribute 1% to the Spanish electricity system and that it is completely insignificant. Moreover, we have been without Garoña for four years, and from the economic point of view no one has missed it. Let's go to security now. The human being, in twenty-one centuries of recent history, has invented a lot of technology, many industries, many devices, and whenever he invented something he invented how to control a harmful effect of that invention. That is, if one day a chemical factory exploded, the radius of action could be more or less known, and if one day the blast furnace of a steelworks could be more or less told even how many victims there might be, and what could be the radius of action of the result of the explosion. But on the nuclear issue we must recognise that we are still at the dawn. The human being created nuclear energy, but he missed control of that nuclear energy. And we have examples, which I would like to give, which are the usual ones, that we have heard in this Parliament more than once. In Ukraine, in 1986, thirty-one years ago, there was a nuclear accident in Chernobyl. Thirty years have passed, and the Russians have just come up with (I insist, thirty years after the area was completely devastated) the only possible solution, and it has been to invest 1.5 billion euros, to make a giant dome of 30,000 tons of iron and steel, and to hide what is below, being aware that this prevents nuclear radiation from being emitted into the atmosphere, but that does not prevent further contamination from underground or groundwater flows. That is to say, in Chernobyl, after thirty years, the Russians have had no better idea than to hide for a century (they say they are going to be a hundred years), in which we have to cover up this nuclear power plant, and not knowing whether there may be pollution at the turn of a hundred years. This indicates that nuclear safety in Russia and no country in the world is complete, much less. Fukushima, six years ago, nuclear accident we all have I think very recent in the retina of our eyes, because they were impressive images. Six years have passed, and Japanese high technology has not been able to curb pollution either. Thousands of devastated hectares, tens of thousands of people who have had to live 30 kilometers from their usual residence and who do not know if they will ever be able to return home or will have to take several decades to try. This is what we set as an example. I mean, there's no nuclear safety... Westinghouse in his day, when he sold the nuclear reactor to Nuclenor, he said he had a life of forty useful years, and yet now there is a ministry and two private companies that want, by the art of birlibirloque, to prolong those forty years in fifteen more years. We are very serious when it comes to listening to the manufacturer, but in this case it seems that we want to add fifteen more years to the useful life of a nuclear reactor that was already surveyed that had its duration over time. And now we're going with Garoña's data and the security data that touches the Alaves closer to us. I said this in the last speech, but I think it is important to stress this: today we are sitting comfortably in Parliament, but we are just over 40 kilometres straight from the Garoña nuclear power plant. In the valley of the Upper Ebro, which is where Garoña is, the dominant winds have a direction that is north-northest, that is, that point directly to Gasteiz, and also have an intermediate speed that can be little more than 20 kilometers per hour. I don't want to be a catastrophe, nor do I want to make an advance here of what can be a very bad world, but we already have Chernobyl and Fukushima, with which we have to talk about the present. That is, if a statistically normal day, a day when the wind had a normal direction and a normal orientation, there would be a nuclear accident in Garoña, so I am of letters, but it is a rule of three simple: at 20 kilometers an hour, in two hours we could have the pollution or the toxic cloud above Gasteiz. In two hours, or two and a half hours. We all know that a city with more than 200,000 inhabitants is impossible to evacuate in such a short space of time. But it should also be added that before that toxic cloud arrived in Gasteiz it would also have passed through the heads of 40,000 bourgeois living in Miranda de Ebro and above the heads of 10,000 Alaves living in the Quadrilla de Añana, which makes natural border with the north of Burgos and the river Ebro. I believe that with this it is completely demonstrated that, without being catastrophic, there is a very great danger with the possible reopening of Garoña, a danger to all the Alaves. I would like to ask those who may today vote in favour of their reopening if they want for Gasteiz and for Araba what we saw in Fukushima and what we saw in Chernobyl. I think that, with a little bit of those images, it is enough to say that we cannot take or take that risk, especially when we link with the previous data, which are already asking for fifteen years of extension of a material that, obviously, according to its manufacturer, was completely finished. We have always had in this Parliament, with the Garoña affair, sixty-four votes in favour and eleven against, until one day Javier Maroto convinced his fellow members that the PP in Euskadi could also vote in favour of the closure of Garoña. Then we had seventy-four votes over seventy-five. I think it is important that today there is an absolute majority, as did the administrative boards, the Alavese municipalities, the General Councils of Álava, the Foral Council of Álava and the Basque Government. I think tomorrow's headline should be "100 percent of the Basque Parliament calls for the definitive closure of Garoña". And for those who do not yet know what they are going to vote, and may have the intention of voting that not at this close, I would like to remind you of something like an ethical responsibility for voting. That is, if Garoña were to reopen and if (I hope not) there was a nuclear accident, I think those who voted in favour of Garoña's extension would have some responsibility to the population and would have to defend why in their day they voted yes to Garoña, when we all know that it is a threat, especially very close. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u54	Good afternoon. Thank you. Mrs Red, I'm afraid the same will happen to us: agreement, and criticism, let's go a little bit to both. But, well, I understand it differently. I want to say that we agree things and that is fine, and we value them, that is put into value through the positive vote, but that does not take away so that in each of the topics each has a trajectory that is convenient to analyze. If there's a theme that has influence on the legislature, it's no doubt Garoña. In this house we are told that the subjects have a course before we get there, and in this case it is especially so, because the originals are 104 different initiatives around Garoña. It takes hours and hours to review the scene's occurrences, gatherings, etc. The old story, Garoña, is, therefore, in this parliament. Political parties have often shown their attitude to Garoña. It is also evident that this Chamber is in a great measure a position not to open Garoña. We didn't have to tell each other that they were against each other, but it's obvious that they are against each other too. It happens, however, that certain subjects, like Garoña, have an enormous capacity for reporting and the first generation that ought to be closed, a twin of Fukushima, this unfortunate nuclear plant with thousands of cracks, can produce two kinds of news: bad news and, as has been said, catastrophic news. We've got bad news again recently that the editor of the Council of Nuclear Security showed the position that the Technic had to restart Garoña. But clearly the accumulation of bad news is gathering bad news about the news that at the end of the world the catastrophic news will come to us. It's important for the Basque People to collect that this parliament should be as close an attitude as possible against the reopening of Garoña, but as has lately been remarked from the popular movement, we must pass through the declarations. It's important that you don't have an greenwashing. It's a technique for clearing Greenwashing's face. That is to say, to give an image for the environment, to make a propaganda, but to do the opposite. The great emergency companies are specialists in this: Take a lot of green images on the tip and photograph them with retractable projects, but in the meantime you've invested a lot in the infected energy, away from the photographs. Here again, I think, is a great deal given, and beyond the law, I think we ought to talk about this also. In this chamber the engineers give examples of their kind, the lawyers theirs, and as far as I am a fireman, I shall imagine what I mean by a parable round the fire. In fire theory, the fire is represented through a tetrahedron. In that tetrahedron, for there to be a fire, we need a fuel, a fuel that provides oxygen, usually air, and an activation energy, that is, something that gives a start heat. For the process to continue, we also need a series of chain reactions. In order to extinguish a fire we can act on one, on two, on three or on four variables. If we act on more variables we will be more likely to succeed. When the fire is potential, I can remove fuel or cover the contact with the air; or we can control the sources that can heat fire. As soon as the fire begins, I'm going to have to put it in the reaction chain, like the estinators do. Iruditzen zait Garoñaren berrirekitzearekin suareren oinarrizko theoryk on which fundzionazen duela. On the one hand we have companies (Endesa and Iberdrola) that want to reopen or prolong the life of nuclear power plants (they bring fuel), on the other hand we have a pronuclear government that gives it the air, and we have a Nuclear Security Council politicized, both by the PP and by the Socialist Party, that provides the favorable reports (that is, it puts the energy of activation), and around all this we have an obsolete, dirty and dangerous energy system, which is the chain reaction. Well, well, this is the stage, and seriously we should act on all the legs of the problem so that Garoña doesn't open up. And not only Garoña: to the extent that Euskal Herria is a territory without nuclear power plants, we must push for, as Germany reasonably did after the Fukushima disaster, once and for all the closure and dismantling of the nuclear park. What we cannot do, and unfortunately what has been happening, is to stay in our proposals with only one or a few areas of action, because it is the easiest way to fail. If we only point to the Government, in the form of instances, so that it does not grant the re-opening permit, we will be under very weak pressure, because the Government can or cannot listen to us. And in order not to be in this situation it would have been interesting not to allow the People's Party access to the government of the state (right, Socialist Party?), or, better still, it would have been good not to be captive to the pressure of oligopoly and to close it when they had occasion (right, Socialist Party?), or it would have been good to have this as a priority on the agenda (right, Nationalist Party?), or, more, it would have been well not to support the Energy Sustainability Act which paved the way for the prolongation of the life of nuclear power plants (right, Popular, Socialist and Nationalist parties?)). We have to focus on the Ministry of Industry and the Government, okay, also on the Nuclear Security Council, because it's good to be fooled. The Nuclear Security Council is a puppet body of the interests of the government party, and the President's attitude deserves a fulminant cessation. What is more difficult for us to understand is why some parties have no intention, and we have to see what it is hard to make you understand that we have to play, we have to play pronuclear companies and the energy model. We have discussed the previous point about the reasons, and I think it is obvious that pastries with energy companies make it very difficult to make a strong point in this respect, and it explains the shyness of some parties in taking steps. But in reality it would be the most effective formula, because the real origin of the problem, who provide fuel for this fire, is Iberdrola and Endesa, who are using the battle of Garoña not only to reopen Garoña, but to prolong the nuclear agony in general. We believe that, as long as companies do not feel our rejection and willingness to penalize their behaviour, they will continue to give good cause for our well-intentioned statements. That's why we have to take a few steps further and explain to them that we're willing to unplug if they don't change their attitude. That's how we'd act on the fuel from this fire. But for that we must be prepared to be angry and stop subsidizing privileged positions (right, popular, socialist and nationalist parties?)). And, of course, nothing like taking steps in a renewable, decentralized, nuclear-free energy model without the tight control of oligopolies on the market. For that we must be willing a little more, and, frankly, today we do not see the maturity enough to press. This does not invalidate our agreement with what will be approved. The proposal to-day, though not so strong as we wish, is a little further from the usual declarations, at least the head of CSN requires at least the legal initiative to start. Therefore, although there are some doubts about the development of the accepted here, although some parties do not have a more firm attitude towards the oligoliticians, we shall have a vote on our side, but we will continue to listen to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u56	Good morning. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. It seemed to him little seven debates, and the first thing Mrs Red did was to present the non-law proposal on Garoña again in this legislature. We have discussed many times in this House, and pronouncements are common in relation to Garoña. And we consider this new motion for a position on the part of the House unnecessary, by repetition and repetition. The same arguments. And we are not going to lose ourselves, of course, in any technical debate, but what is on the table today is a technical issue in relation to reports and in relation to basically technical issues. Tenth Legislature, seven debates and resolutions in this House between 2013 and 2016, completing all the possibilities of instance and of asking questions, preceded in addition to the debate immediately prior to 2013, of 2012: 14 March 2013, PNL; 6 June 2013, motion; 6 February 2014, PNL; 5 July 2014, PNL; 19 February 2015, motion; 19 November 2015, PNL; 25 February 2016, PNL, scaled, less than a year ago, to today's, scaled to today's. In addition, it calls for all kinds of action and urges a large number of institutions, promoting or proposing various procedures, various meetings, resources, study of remedies, legal reports, commissions, etc. There is nothing new in the approaches of this initiative, and we have already talked about that. And nothing's nothing. The only thing that could seem different today is something that has not yet occurred, and it is not the opinion of the plenary of the Nuclear Security Council, would be the acceptance by the company of the technical conditions required (we are talking about 150 million euros to invest in technical conditions) and the final decision of authorization by the Government of Spain. Something that has not occurred, something that at the moment is not documented or theoretically. That's right, a required administrative procedure is being completed, but, well, that's where we're at. Nothing has changed at all. In this Parliament, ministries or ministers, the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, Nuclenor, Endesa, Iberdrola, the Nuclear Security Council have already been called upon... on many occasions, on many occasions, to do the same thing we are doing today. And it is that we are also in a process, and it is that the Government of Spain has already taken note of these pronouncements on previous dates. There is still no variation on these issues. And today we are, again, in the face of an administrative procedure, that in the situation in which it is today it cannot be unilaterally curtailed. It is an administrative procedure that is under way, and it cannot be unilaterally curtailed. That is to say, the company's claim has a legal path that must be respected, since if this is not done, it would probably open up a judicial and contentious path that is not desirable, and that certainly not in those keys it would satisfy the claims defended by these initiatives that constantly raises us. I don't defend Garoña, nor will I defend Garoña. The Nuclenor company, is that it has its rights, and is currently exercising them on the basis of existing legislation, whether we like it or not. And that claim is in a preceptive administrative procedure to which the company today, and with the regulations and legislation in force, is entitled. And I think that's the fundamental issue. And, well, you can't stop the government of Spain... Since August 1, 2014, this situation is being studied where it has to be studied, and then make the decision that it has to make. My group has already spoken in this House. A new positioning or pronunciation does not solve anything, and moreover in this repetition, in this repetition, the previous pronunciations are distorted, precisely because of repetitive, repetitive. It gives me the feeling..., and it's also a piece of advice that I think has a basis and meaning: I think you should withdraw the initiative and present it when there really is something new on this subject. But there's no news, Mrs. Red, there's no news! Present it when there are new developments on this issue, because today's pronouncements are the same as those of a year ago and those of two years ago on this issue. And don't tell me in the no-law proposition... What has to do with the reports that the technical services of this House or the technical services of the Basque Government have to do, then, you can really push them! You yourself in the Basque Government, or the advisers of the Basque Government in the Basque Government. There is no need to pronounce this House! Who's in the Basque government? The PNV and PSOE, signatories of this initiative. Let them proceed to what the last point of this non-law proposal says! And in the House, in the Basque Parliament, the Bureau of the Basque Parliament! The four signatories of this non-legislative proposal are on the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, there is no need for a non-legislative proposal. It was the only novelty of the GNP, the only one. Everything else we've discussed, Mrs. Red. And what is so repetitive and so repetitive is diluting, Mrs. Red. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u58	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Barrio, I'll introduce the initiatives when you think I have to introduce them, whether you like it or not, bore you or not. You can change your voice, and, as you are bored, so let another do it. I mean, don't say there's no news on the subject of Garoña, because it's missing the truth. You know that the People's Party wants to reopen Garoña, is waiting for a report, and they want to flee the political decision by hiding in a technical decision. Stop and it's over. That's the situation we're in. So, anyway, if you like the initiative well, and if not, too. So don't say there's no news, because there's news. There was not so much news when this parliamentary group presented the initiative, but politics is what it is, and soon things changed. And you voted here in a way when it suits you, when Mr. Maroto played what was played in the City Hall of Vitoria. That's for telling him something. Man, of course the arguments are the same! It was just missing! But the truth is, you don't always say the same thing. You do not say the same thing today as when Mr Maroto was in Parliament. If not, read my speeches, because I have always said the same thing. And then I have to tell you, Mr. Otero... It's true, I see that with you the deal and the subject of criticism... Well, all right, let's do it. You said, "Well, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, look back." The Socialist Party does look back. I wish the left abertzale would look back from time to time, and not from the eye: look. I look back on what the PSOE did on the subject of Garoña, and indeed maybe we could do better, surely, and we probably wouldn't be as we are today. I recognize it, I don't fall for rings, because we, unlike you, seem to be, there are times when we were wrong, and we could probably have done better, and probably the decisions could have been made differently. I do look back, because I do have... My game has history, but so does yours, eh! Don't be mistaken, don't come here and tell us how you've just arrived at the political life of this country. You can also look back. And don't get me wrong and go where you think I'm talking to you, which I could also tell you but I'm not going to use it today, but it's just that Bildu has ruled in Gipuzkoa. Those oligopolies you're talking about, with Iberdrola, with Endesa... Similar oligopolies "txikis" in Euskadi have also been, in Gipuzkoa. And when Bildu was ruling there were companies that got a deal and were given 13 million euros for doing nothing, nothing! 13 million euros of the public money of the Gipuzcoans, which could have been used, hey, to make reports of renewables, for energy poverty in many municipalities... For many things they could have been used. But you don't talk about that, because for you oligopoly is what you don't touch, but that too... If some say we take care of some companies, Bildu would take care of other companies in Gipuzkoa. And what happened, unlike what you don't like? Well, they've come to court and they've laid down the convention for them. Now what? Now what? It's just that that 13 million euros came from Gipuzcoan public money. So when you want to accuse certain parties of taking care of companies in interest I don't know what, I don't know what, so please look back, because you... Look, in this we can be more comfortable, because these have just arrived, but you don't, eh! They have managed, they have ruled, and they have done things that, in the end, if I had them in my record I would remain silent. So here everyone listens, and here everyone has to endure their candle. And, in the same way that I recognize that there are things that we could do better, because perfect are not, of course, if someone is not perfect is Bildu. And let's look back, but, Mr. Otero, not out of sight. I say openly that on the subject of the central of Garoña we could have done better, yes, indeed, but what can't be now that you come here as if you were the defenders of everything and never made any mistakes, because you know perfectly well that many mistakes have been made. And, as many notes as they give you, 13 million euros is 13 million euros. Public money, yes or no? Public money. He's been laid down by the courts, yes or no? He's been buried. Now what? And they've given it to some companies for doing nothing. Because there are others who work; they may like you more or less what they do, but they are doing something. But you have given part of the Gipuzcoan public arks to companies for being – I open quotes – "touching their feet". Or no, gentlemen of EH Bildu? It's just that we all have to listen here! And once again, on a subject that was agreed by four political parties, it has set the debate on fire again, and it has again sought out the enemy where there was an ally in the signature below the document. So, Mr. Otero, I don't know, if we're going to continue on this path, it's going to be very difficult. And I'm done, President. And you know what happens? That in this House we add what we all add, and, either we are able to have enough generosity to reach agreements, or we will end up voting for each of us and we will do nothing. And when we go out on the street that town, which you like to talk about as the voice of the people, will ask us for explanations, and rightly so. So let's not burn. For you, who is a firefighter, you don't need to burn, because if there's no fire, you don't need to turn it off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u59	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u60	Well, for starters I have to say that I agree with the analysis that EH Bildu has made that the important thing in this matter is not to greenwash and act on all the variables that affect the possible reopening of Garoña. And in this case Mrs Red mentioned that there was unanimity a year ago, and that is true, but unanimity has always occurred towards the central government fundamentally, and it is not only the central government that can do something about reopening. It is true that you have the last decision (and in that I do not agree with Mr Barrio, this is not merely a technical question), it is true that the company has a right, it has a right to request reopening, but it is also true that the report of the Nuclear Security Council is not binding. In other words, the last decision falls to the central government, and that is important for us to be clear. Closing or reopening is not just a political decision, it is not merely a political issue, as Mrs Red said. It includes business interests, possibly legitimate, but includes those business interests, and they are interests that often mix politics and business. And I am not going to get involved, I am not going to go into the subject of rotating doors, a little bit because of the elegance that if we have jointly signed this non-law proposal I am not going to go into the subject, but business and political interests are intimately intertwined, and have much to do with the fact that the decisions that are taken in this Parliament then do not go further. Mr Ramírez-Escudero said that nuclear power is a risk. Sure! That's been said by ecologists from Lemoniz at least in this country, and before. It is good that now, at last, we begin to give reason to what the ecological movement has said on the street since forever. And he has said one thing that is important: let us demand responsibilities. It is also true, but we do not demand them only from the central government. Let us demand the responsibilities of all those people and organisms who, by being able to do something, have not done it. And that will also possibly include the Basque Government, or political parties. I mentioned earlier that for once it would be wise for those political parties that have representation on the boards of certain companies to use what we have given to call revolving doors, for once, for the benefit of the citizenry. Because, can't your party really do anything more than what you've done to shut down Garoña? And I will not go forward in this respect because we have signed this non-law proposal, but I leave this question here for you to answer, because you do have to account to the citizens, to your fellow citizens, to whom you govern, but there are other interests in this Parliament of people who are not giving these accounts. Because the People's Party always claims to defend the citizens of Alavesa. Show it once and for all! Not only by voting here in Parliament, not just by voting in Parliament, but by moving all the threads that you know you can move, both in the central government and in the companies that are calling for reopening, so that this is not so. And I have to say that if there is such a repetition, Mr Barrio, when this issue has come to this House, it is because that social concern exists, and it is the obligation of the parties here, of the groups here, to respond to that social concern. Because if something happens then it is no longer just a matter of asking for responsibilities. Let us demonstrate, not only with the votes, but with our actions, that for once we put the security of Basque citizenship before business interests. And then it will give us just as much whether you vote or not this non-law proposal. Hang up if you want the medal, but please do what you have to do for the citizenry as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euzko Abertzaleak talderen ordezkaria. Ramírez-Escudero jauna, zurea da hitza. RAMÍREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: Mr.Barrio, in his main argument he said that there was nothing new, that there have been no changes, that we carry seven almost equal GNP..., and this is not an argument, because you can reverse that argument: if you voted not to Garoña a few months ago and it has not changed anything, why now it seems that you are not going to vote in that direction? That is to say, the same argument that there is no change is good to remind you that, if with the same arguments a year or a half ago you voted not to Garoña, and if, as you say, there has been no change or argumentation, then we would be in which you could again hold that vote not to Garoña. There are two theories: one, waiting for events to happen, and the other, to move forward. I agree with the initiative, because we could wait for the Nuclear Security Council to say something, but we run the risk that it will clearly say yes to Garoña and we will be late with our protest. It seems to me that, knowing that we are on the eve of a decision being taken, and having a certain sense of what the decision may be, let us move forward and, although symbolically, vote against a possible reopening of Garoña. To you, who go here so much from Alaves (or Alavesicos, which Mr Arbulo said a month ago in this Parliament), do you your militants from the peoples close to the border with Burgos not tell you that you are somewhat afraid of the operation of the nuclear power plant? Are all Alava PP militants in favor of reopening? If Garoña were in the middle of the desert and surrounded by sand and cactus, and had no inhabitant two hundred kilometers away, we might be talking about something else, but it is that we are talking about a closeness to 300,000 Alaves, and, you who defend so much the interests of Alava, I think this is a primary interest for the security of Alava. I think they have a golden opportunity today to join the rest of the votes and that tomorrow, I insist and repeat, the headline would be "In the Basque Parliament one hundred percent of the plenary vote against a possible reopening of Garoña". Enjoy it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u63	Yes, thank you. Well, Mrs. Red, I don't know whether we're going to get along well or not, I don't know whether we're going to agree or not, but of course what I do know is that I'm not going to play dirty, and what I do know is that what you just did here is dirty. I mean (yes, and I'm very clear), when I'm talking about energy poverty and I'm talking about the outbursts of big companies and price changes, and how the public authorities have moved billions of euros, I'm talking about the point that brought us here. And when I'm talking about the legs that we can touch so that Garoña won't open again and not continue with nuclear power, I'm talking about that. I think that's quite different... I mean, what I've done is talk about the history of the Socialist Party on those points that we're dealing with today. Jumping from there to asking me responsibilities about the history or history of the left abertzale seems to me to be a dirty political game, and changing the focus of the point we are dealing with. With this, I am not going to do it, but, just to complete the argument, the 13 million euros that Euskal Herria Bildu paid in compensation in Gipuzkoa for the halting of an incinerator that was not needed have been multiplied this same week by more than 1 billion euros that Mr Asensio has just signed, mortgaged all the Gipuzcoans and Gipuzcoans for the next thirty-two years, by an incinerator that is not going to be needed. I only bring it because you brought the incinerator, which was not my intention. And I'll be back with the history. February 15, 2011, Zapatero President: Congress votes a Senate amendment that withdraws the forty-year life limit from nuclear power plants; votes in favour, People's Party, Socialist Party, Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence and Union. On leaving, Erkoreka, Josu Erkoreka, who was in that sauro, declares that he had specifically left out of that agreement, specifically outside, Garoña. Convergence and Unified interpreted that not. It was not clear to the Socialist Party. And finally, which I want to leave here, we believe, we insist that it is important, to put real pressure on the closure of Garoña and the rest of the nuclear power plants, to go and help the companies that are trying to expand. And in that sense I believe that, regardless of the initiatives that can be approved here or not, Euskal Herria Bildu is doing an interesting job in this regard: he is trying to put an end to the practically monopoly that some companies had in contracts, in the public lighting bids in the contracts of the municipalities. We understand that that's one more way to do it. And also to finish, since, of three or four interventions I have had, I have already had three or four answers about the banners – and to make it clear at once, because, if not, it seems to me that we are going to spend four years talking about the banners – indeed, I am a person who defends the banners, you do not need to remind me, because I believe that, of course, things can be changed better from this Parliament, from the institutions, but I also believe that the banners have often been completely necessary to make the pressure necessary for them to change things. So, of course, of course I am an advocate of the banners, and in any case, I have no doubt whether I have to choose between the revolving door to the banner – which is where I come from – or the rotating door to the board of any oligopolistic energy company, so it is clear what my choice is. What I would like is for you to answer me if it would be the choice of each and every one of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u65	Thank you, President. Mrs. Red, look, the one who doesn't do the same is you. When Zapatero extended the useful life of Garoña, when the Socialist Party could have closed Garoña, he did not. He extended his authorization for several more years, and he could have closed it. That is the fundamental element. That decision at that time, that Zapatero's decision, would have avoided all these debates, would have prevented us all this time that we have used – almost as in the technical committee of the CSN – to talk about this issue. And the truth is, there's one thing that's amazing. You are taking the view that the Government of Spain is taking an approach to this issue! You take for granted an approach by the Government of Spain. The only thing the Spanish Government does is that the law is enforced! And that the administrative procedure under way in relation to the regulations, in relation to the laws that apply and in relation to those procedural and administrative steps to which the company is entitled to comply is complied with – I don't know, here are many graduates in law. And I think that's the fundamental element. That is why I was telling them that there is nothing new, that repetitive, repetitive debates are turning themselves away, that we have to wait for something new to happen, and, in any case, when there is, we will re-discuss decisions, approaches, or legal, administrative, political or legal figures. But now there's nothing new. That is why I believe that this issue is being turned upside down. And, Mr Becerra, the CSN report is binding if the CSN requests closure. Of course it's binding! In any case, it will always be mandatory, and the Government will have to take it into account on technical issues. But the CSN's report is binding (you said it is not binding), it is binding if the Nuclear Security Council calls for the shutdown of the power plant. Finally, look, we are going to abstain from this initiative. We are going to abstain because, I say again, there is nothing new. We have already spoken in this House many times, and I think we are paying attention to this approach in relation to the use of these repeated, repetitive debates, which at the moment are not taking us anywhere, Mr Ramírez-Escudero. It's just nothing new! Even their own approaches and their own argument in relation to us, in relation to the objective situation, are the same. Of course, it seems to be, you were not able to understand a political effort that was made in this House, and what you want is to continue to propitiate permanent anger. They were unable to understand what parliamentaryism is, some positions at a particular point in time, and what they want is sham, and they want to take advantage of the usual themes to remain in the sham. And, by the way, from Nuclenor, what news do I have? Two. One, which follows the procedure that began in August 2014 and remains installed, and the Nuclear Security Council, as a Nuclear Power, is therefore entitled to do the analysis. And, second, the news I read in the press. And what did I read? A Sánchez Galán, 11-04-2016: "Sánchez Galán announces to the unions the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant". Sánchez Galán said so! I read it in Five Days, ABC, Diario Norte. He said it! And I think it's the fundamental element. Please, Mrs Red, bring us Garoña again, who will surely do it (this is the first one, there is another legislature, another seven times will bring it), but bring it when there is something new about what to discuss. Because, if not, that approach distorts, weakens and reverses the positions of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, together with Podemos, EHG, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u67	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentary People made by the Parlamentary Society, concerning the introduction of a employment plan of the organization to the Basque Act as soon as possible. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Damborena, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, it's one at noon and we're going to bring in an issue that is within the competence of this House and of which the Basque Government is competent to take action. We have already raised a month and a half ago, and we see today, the urgent need for this government to seriously consider job creation in the Basque Country, and in the justification that we gave we were talking about the two plans of the last legislature, which has not taken stock of either of them; that the data of the past legislature are not good, in our view; that we were still towing the growth of Spain... We gave some data on the initiative. For example, that the employment rate in the Basque Country in 2008 was 53% and today it is 48; that unemployment fell in Spain more than in the Basque Country, because it was also a significant figure, or that the growth of employment, the creation of employment in Spain..., that in the last year it grew twice as much or that it created twice as much employment as in the Basque Country. These are data. I'm going to give you some more, so you can see what the situation in the Basque Country is. Of course, in young people (and when I speak of young people under 30) the activity rate in 2005 in the Basque Country was 60.7, today it is 51.9 points less; the employment rate was 54%, today it is 37%, and unemployment was 10% and today it is 28%, 27.9%. We have less occupied population, more than 50,000 fewer people than in 2016. The total population in 2016 at closure is less than 3,000 people than in 2015, which was lower than in 2014, which was lower than in 2013. I mean, we're getting less and less. We're getting less and less. The activity rate in Spain is almost two and a half points above that of the Basque Country. That's right, we have a lower unemployment rate. And I'm going to read... Well, I'm going to nuance one thing, because I've seen the compromise amendment that Bildu and Podemos have come to, and on our initiative, when we're talking about job creation, we're talking about job creation in the private sector, we're not talking about job creation in the public sector. That is very easy, as long as someone pays it, but it is that public employment is paid from the taxes that are generated from the private sector, and the problem we do not have in the public sector. Today there are already more public employees in the Basque Country than before the crisis. Public employment in the Basque Country has not fallen. What has fallen is private employment, and the quality of private employment. And I'm going to read some headlines in the last year, in the last months: "The Basque Country is left with university graduates, lacks skilled workers" (Laboral Kutxa study); "More than 109,000 Basque youths have left since 2000" (but this was two years ago, they are more); "The Basque youths emigrate three times more than the extremists" (this headline came out in the Deia); "Euskadi was placed in Spain's queue in 2016 in unemployment and job creation". These are headlines who have appeared in the press in recent months, and who obviously have not been denied by anyone, because they obviously respond to certain data. And today we have two data that are not good either. Unemployment rises; it is normal for it to rise in January. I don't know if it's normal that it goes up almost twice as high as in Spain as a percentage of the rate, but, well, it's a month of January and it's a short-term, it's not relevant. If it is relevant, for example, another fact that says that Kutxabank is going to prejugate 300 people, because those are three hundred fewer jobs, which is what we are talking about and is what our non-law proposal is about. And there is a report that I think is important, which was made public yesterday by the UPV, the Euskadi labor report, which had a good headline, or the headline that was given was good in principle, because it said, more or less, that we have recovered the industrial employment rate from before the crisis. Of course, the bad news is, yes, we have the same percentage, but we have 30,000 fewer industrial jobs. Which means we've destroyed over 100,000 jobs. That is to say, having the same percentage, but having lost 30,000 jobs, because it is not good, even if the holder is good (but what is below is not good), and the following data that give us are also not particularly good: ageing the population, ageing the unemployed, and practically telling us that the young people of twenty-five are absent from the labour market. That is what this report tells us that was released yesterday. Well, since the last legislature we've been denouncing this thing that's going on in the Basque Country, and how our best-prepared young people are leaving. There are different formulas to lower the unemployment rate. One is that jobs are created and people find work; another is that people leave, find work and are not targeted at unemployment. Of course, and we're getting less busy and we're getting less and less unemployed. The government's intention at the beginning of this parliamentary term, to reach the unemployment rate below 10%, is that at the rate we are going to do it alone! Of course, only half of those who retire will be depreciated, and between half to work, so they almost reach 10% without doing anything. Now, what are we looking at with pre-retirement and retirement? I wish half of those jobs could be reached by young people! But it's not happening like this and it's not being like this. And that's the problem we see. We denounce in the last legislature the lack of investment by the Government, especially in the execution, because in the budgets the paper endures everything. There was also help for entrepreneurs, but then the execution went to zero! And the help to reconcile family and work life was cut short. I have here the government's data on the implementation of investment and expenditure budgets. Year 2010: investments, €1.5 billion; current expenditure, €8.5 billion. Year 2015: current expenditure, €8.6 billion (an additional 100 million); investments, 750 million (half as in 2010, five years ago). The Basque Government really invests (what it executes, not what it brings us in the budgets) half that five years ago. I am referring to direct investment and Chapter VII, capital transfers. Current expenditure has risen; real investment and employment-creating investment have been halved. Well, we are going to believe this time the Lehendakari's speech that in this legislature the priority is employment, that in this legislature the priority – because in the past it has not been, and to the data we refer – is the problem of population and aging that we have. And we're going to believe him and we're going to make an effort to reach an agreement or push an agreement, and we've come to a compromise with the groups that support the government so that this time a plan will come... First, the evaluation of previous plans is done. Not to criticize them, because the data we already have, the unemployment and employment data we already have, but it must be used to see what things we need to improve in view of the new plan. I understand that we all want jobs to be created and quality jobs to be created! Well, let's see if it is true that this government, within the deadlines we have signed, brings us to take stock of the plans of the last legislature, and then we come up with a real plan, with real measures, so that conciliation aid is real and not cut, as has been cut over the past four years; so that investments are really made; so that when aid to entrepreneurs comes, it is implemented and given to entrepreneurs, and when investment aid is made. And therefore, there are two things that we have put forward in our initiative and in the compromise that we have reached with you: the balance sheet of the previous plan, and the new plan, whose priority must be job creation (job creation) for those groups which obviously all know that they are the most disadvantaged at this time, and first and foremost today they are young people, also the largest long-term unemployed, and women, who are the pagans, especially in the quality of employment. But especially young people. Above all, I understand that, being nationalists as many of you are, you will be through the work of having a society that works, in which young people can make their lives and do not have to do it outside the Basque Country, as is happening now with thousands and thousands of them. In any case, we will not see this when the plan comes (I say government priorities). We'll see you when the budget comes. And when the budget comes, and with what commitment to the implementation of that budget, when the Government brings them to us within a month or when it considers it appropriate, it will be when we really see whether this time, in this legislature, for Mr Urkullu and the Basque Government its priority is the creation of stable and quality employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u69	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u70	Good morning, everyone. At the end of January, 139,000 persons registered as applicants for employment in Lanbide, 2,000 more than in December, have been reported in Euskadi. We must add to these, of course, those who, in need of employment, do not officially appear as such job seekers. But together with this, serious, we also find a reality in which employment has increasingly precarious conditions: temporality, precariousness, partiality... I believe that in this House too we have had an opportunity to say so. According to Lanbide, almost 93% of the contracts signed in 2016 were temporary, almost 40% part-time, and it is women who suffer the most, and more than 50% of those who sign these contracts. The latest employment plans of the Basque Government have not changed this denunciated reality; therefore, in our view, an in-depth analysis of these plans and, also in our view, a new employment policy, based, in our view, on a powerful public sector, on the distribution of existing employment, on the quality of employment, and also on support for small businesses and self-employed people. What we are dealing with here today is originally an initiative of the People's Party to create an inter-institutional employment plan, with concrete actions to promote stable employment, with specific measures for those groups with greater difficulties in accessing the labour market. Frankly, from our point of view, quite a contradiction, as the party that has adopted most of the reforms that have caused and accentuated the current precariousness and temporality in our labour market is today so concerned about stable employment and by certain groups. He is ultimately responsible for the disappearance of many collective agreements, responsible for the need for young people to emigrate, as did our grandparents, at least mine. The truth is that from our group we do not share the justification, or part of the justification that the People's Party makes in proposing the original initiative. To set Spain as an example in terms of employment policies does not seem to us to be the most opportune at the moment. You do not even smile when you say it, and what we say is that the situation in both the State and in the Basque Country for the working class is serious, and therefore we are not worth that example and justification. Most of the measures and reforms that you have promoted have brought us to the current situation, here and in Spain as a whole: deepening social inequality to bloody limits, and chronification of poverty. We have suffered a loss of individual and collective rights with labour reforms; also with the first of the Socialist Party and especially with yours, the People's Party. And laws bite that have also persecuted workers when they have sought to defend their rights (today there are still hundreds of fellow trade unionists accused of participating in mobilizations and strikes). His proposal therefore raises serious doubts about what he intends to do, and what kind of interinstitutional plan he might end up with. We do not agree with the way out of the crisis that we believe the People's Party, which Mr Rosell said yesterday, if I am not mistaken, when he came to say that jobs can be created and jobs must be created, but that employment cannot be of quality. We believe that this is the background to the issue, and that that is where they want to take us. We bet on a different way out of the crisis. That is why we have already told the Basque Government that it is not enough for us, in terms of employment policy, to set targets for reducing the unemployment rate below an equal percentage, whatever. That is important and we agree, but for us, with the current situation, it is not enough, much less. That is why we proposed in our amendment some pillars that are important or fundamental to us, and we understand that the People's Party does not share them (we certainly do not expect anything else). The first of these, yes, is to create employment from the public sector. We understand that the public sector is in itself, or may be in itself, the best tool for creating quality jobs, and the Basque Government also has the capacity to do so. We are also talking about jobs whose purpose is to guarantee the public services needed for the population, especially in the sectors most essential for the people (health, education, social services, dependency, mobility), but the public sector can also generate other types of employment. And it's not just financed by private employment taxes. Secondly, we also suggest that there is a need to redistribute and rationalize existing employment, both in the public and private sectors. In an increasingly automated society, job sharing is essential to ensure employment for all. We believe that any employment plan today should address work-sharing measures. It cannot, moreover, be that illegal overtime (I have already denounced it in this House) remains on the agenda, when there are women and men who want to work and do not find a job. Workdays are increasingly long, both in this country and throughout the State. We believe that public administrations can lead the implementation of work-sharing programmes, because the size of their staff allows it. Thirdly, we believe that the quality of employment, as I have already said, must be essential when drawing up employment plans. I will not repeat Mr Rosell's opinion again, which I believe you share, and I would like the government not to share, and in particular I would like the Socialist and Workers' Party not to share. Lack of quality in employment is one of the consequences of recent labour reforms. The reality is that today there are people who need several jobs to reach the end of the month, many people. And a lot of people, besides working, have to charge for GIR. For us, therefore, employment policy must ensure that employment is of quality. This seems fundamental to us. And fourthly, we had added, yes, support to small private enterprises (we are not proposing to replace all the country's private jobs with public employment), to small enterprises and to self-employed enterprises, so that they are indeed in a position to create jobs. And we are also aware that it is precisely in small businesses that we find it most difficult for women workers to defend our rights. For our group, for our coalition, these are pillars on which an employment plan should be based. The initiative put forward by the People's Party and the final compromise proposal with the groups supporting the Government is, in our view, a more generic initiative, and therefore, at this time of gravity, insufficient. All groups share that the employment plans collect measures aimed at the most difficult groups: young people, older than forty-five years, women, dependent people, long-term unemployed..., and we would also add people with functional diversity. The fundamental difference between your proposal and the compromise reached by the groups on the left of the House is not that. The fundamental difference, in our opinion, lies in whether we consider as sufficient public action the stimulation of the private sector, waiting for companies and the market to do the rest, or whether, on the contrary, we bet on an employment policy that bets to build a powerful public trunk capable of articulating and being a tractor for a country with quality employment and powerful public services for citizens. We also consider the involvement of social partners to be essential when presenting employment plans. These in their initiative, not even in the final, do not appear anywhere. For our group, dialogue with trade unions (with all actors, but in particular with trade unions) should be a cornerstone in employment policies, taking into account their recommendations for both improving the quality of employment and combating unemployment. Finally, in our transaction too, like you, we talk about the balance sheet of the 2014-2016 Employment Plan. We agree that we need to discuss it, we think it is essential to see whether the objectives that were set have been met or not, but we also think that we need to discuss whether the model is useful for what it says to defend or whether, on the contrary, it is already necessary to change the model. In our view too, the proposal that you are finally putting forward is about measures to promote and promote employability. For us this is entirely reductionist, since employability, although important, alone does not provide work, employment, rights, or decent life to people. Attention to the most vulnerable groups with greater difficulties in entering the labour market is essential, yes, we agree, but it is no less urgent that this employability be with rights, of quality, stable and safe. Otherwise, we will perpetuate and perpetuate a model that is in which they intend to install the labour market (as Mr Rosell has already said), a model where we may reduce unemployment rates, but where we workers have to settle for precarious employment so that someone increases their profit rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. "Employment is the basic axis of the political action of the government as a whole." That is the first sentence of the text of the government agreement between the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. With that phrase we not only make clear a declaration of intentions, but, beyond all that, we have made a commitment to Basque society. A commitment to meet the challenge of creating stable and quality employment, sustainable and decent employment, which in turn constitutes a fundamental pillar for solid growth, but above all a firm step that brings us closer to a more egalitarian society. A commitment that is referred to as a priority through the framework employment programme, which is expected to be approved in the first half of this year, as reflected in our own government agreement. Reduce unemployment rates and promote employability, two objectives that will pay particular attention to those groups that have the greatest difficulties in entering work, such as young people, those over the age of 45 and long-term unemployed, women or dependent persons. A comprehensive, cross-cutting framework programme with tangible and concrete measures. A programme that will also affect several departments of the Government itself, which not only focuses on the issue of employment, but goes even beyond that. In the same vein, inter-institutional collaboration is essential, and particularly in all matters relating to working together with the administrations closest to our citizens. That is why the Basque Socialists claim the role of the municipalities, the parliaments and the regional development agencies. The economic situation of certain regions and populations in Euskadi requires specific action plans to correct and eliminate imbalances with regard to the whole of our Autonomous Community. We acquired that commitment through our own electoral program, but also through the government agreement, as I said before, signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. It is something that is perfectly defined and reflected in that government agreement. And they are plans that will address each situation in a specific way, and in which job creation and economic activity will be their cornerstone. But, as I said earlier, it will not be the only cornerstone, it will not be the only issue dealt with in that framework employment programme. On this issue, in fact, we do not start from scratch, and it should be remembered that during the last parliamentary term, and as far as interinstitutional cooperation is concerned, initiatives were taken on the basis of conditions laid down by the European Union itself within the so-called regional aid map. An initiative which came from the European framework but which was even taken, within that capacity and this spirit of interinstitutional collaboration, by the Basque Government, but which has clearly proved insufficient. We therefore need a much broader approach, which, from inter-institutional intervention and collaboration, from the leadership of the Basque Government itself, places greater emphasis and gives priority to job creation. We understand precisely that the most appropriate tool is in this framework programme, a programme that must set as a real priority the creation of employment, but also the implementation of concrete measures that favour the creation of youth employment or the incorporation of women into economic and labour activity. Either the boost to training for employment, or support for entrepreneurship, or support for SMEs and self-employed people, or the consolidation of local trade. A framework programme that will complement the economic recovery plans in the areas of investment, innovation, internationalisation and industrial and energy development, as well as urban regeneration of depressed areas according to a sustainable urban development model. A programme in which inter-institutional collaboration will undoubtedly be of vital importance. This government has a difficult task ahead that will bear fruit throughout this semester, as reflected in the government agreement. Time, therefore, for analysis, for work and, of course, for contributing from objectivity, from a constructive spirit and from a realism that leads us to implement effective measures that materialize and make possible the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves. In this respect, I believe that the agreement with the People's Party has been simple, since at the heart of the matter we agreed, as I think we also agree on some points with the EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos groups. Basically, but perhaps not so much in the tools or in the formulation to implement, as I said, those tools and that framework programme that we consider so necessary. So, in this matter, we have a deal with the Popular Party, the party proposer. It was not very difficult, as I have said, that the foundation of this proposition was founded on our political agreement, because we had a common diagnosis, and that it was a good starting-point. We have, as I have said, a common diagnosis with EH Collectors and together with Podemos, so that we see no difficulty in protecting different groups, not only with the three groups which we have just signed the transaction. Whether to sign this medium or not, whether to protect this medium, whether to defend it or not, I have no doubt that we all agree, and that is not a small thing. From now on, as soon as we have the text of planning, it will be the moment of the interaction. This is not the proposition or uneasiness of either of them, or the work, but a challenge which we must all advance on this subject from now on. Let's all get together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u73	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, the discussion about employment. Today, as opposed to Poptular Party, the other proposal demands an application to the Eucommy as soon as possible to present a jobs plan for the organization. We agree that when he says that the greatest concern of society is employment and employment. That's all right with that statement, yes, it's the Eubertarians, it's the Eucomators, it's the Eucomators. The first strategic part of our election program is to achieve more employment and better quality. In the program itself, specific activities and activities combine, in order to achieve the purpose of más y mejor Empulo. This being so, the Socialist Party and the Jestric Party, the first village column of the government signed in November, as has been said by Mr. Andreez, is a reactivation and permanence. Therefore, the Basque Government and the groups supporting it are concerned and busy sitting the limbs, putting the conditions in place to create more and better employment. The Basque Government's commitment to this parliamentary term – also mentioned by Mr Damborenea – is to reduce the unemployment rate by less than 10%, as Councilwoman Artolazabal said at the appearance in which the main lines of action of her department were explained. We believe that employment and economic recovery are the two sides of the same coin, they are indissolubly united. That is why the government's commitment to present a framework programme for employment and economic recovery in the first half of 2017, led from Lehendakaritza and involving different departments of the Basque Government. The framework programme will contain a specific employment plan which will include measures in favour of youth employment, for which all groups have shown concern; the full integration of women into economic and labour activities also seems to us to be essential; the integration of employment through local and regional employment plans, as Mr Andueza said; training for employment, of vital importance; entrepreneurship; support for SMEs and self-employed people, as also mentioned by Mr Hernández; the consolidation of local trade, and the programme renews in building, especially intensive in job creation. In addition, the framework programme will include economic recovery plans in the areas of investment, innovation, internationalization and industrial and energy development, the powers of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure. We are also convinced and convinced that public policy on employment and reactivation must be accompanied and promoted through social dialogue, consolidating a permanent framework for negotiation between economic and social actors and strengthening a Basque system of labour relations. I think Mr Hernández also mentioned this. In the performance of January 17th, the chief physician said clearly that, besides the work and occupation of the Bureau, the assistance of other institutions, of the business, of the social world, and of the social institutions, is a fundamental partnership. It is clear that collaboration is essential. We need all of us in the same direction, we need to join forces to get more and better jobs and reduce the unemployment rate. I am convinced that all groups share this statement, although we may disagree on the measures to be implemented or on the way forward. The goal is the same: to get more and better jobs. With regard to the original initiative, I was surprised that the Basque Government was asked for an inter-institutional employment plan, where it was not even mentioned with which other institutions were to work for its elaboration. I would have to agree with the government of Nafarroa, with that of La Rioja, with that of the state, with that of Iparralde, with that of France... Or maybe with all of them at the same time. Do you really think, Mr Damborenea, that the formula was effective? I might understand that it would be urged to be interdepartmental, but I do not see the reference to the rest of the institutions clearly. I sincerely believe that it would make it difficult to develop, implement, monitor and evaluate the results later. I insist, share and fully advocate inter-institutional collaboration, but each institution has its own competences and must be able to develop them within its own sphere of responsibility. The Basque Employment Strategy 2020 comes out of the Interdepartmental Commission, the Social Dialogue Bureau, with the participation of more than fifty agents, as well as different departments and other government entities. The Basque Government maintains channels of dialogue with the rest of the institutions and actors, and will continue to do so. I'm sure you'll have to consider the views of the different organizations and operatings. To this end, as has been said, he has had several assemblies, and will continue to keep them with different agents. Together, Podemos and EH Collect are talking about the necessity of conversation in their basic conduct. We also find it important that we can talk to different agents. I mean, we're always ready to have some eubertists, and we're ready to have a chat, which is, at least, to have a conversation. And you all know, many times, that some unions don't want to talk to you, they don't even sit down at the table. And, well, even though the competition teams repeat it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, it's not working well, because there's still a lot of work to do, because there's too much work to work and many people don't have the most appropriate job conditions, and that's why she's working. But data is objective and significantly positive. I shall compare the data of the earlier legislation, which was introduced in January 2013, and in 2016. About the unenplegurate, then it was 15%, December 13,1%, and two points less. Unworked: January 2013, 135.281 in unemployment and December 2016 the 126.176 person. About the rate of occupation, January 2013, 61,4th and December, 65,9%. This is also recorded by Eustate, so I don't know where you got yours, Monsieur Damboreea. And as for Social Security, in 2013 874.291, and December 925.291 person. So there's better. It's not enough. We have to keep working so the rate of unemployment can be at least 10% and the workers can have worthy job conditions. The facts, though slower than they please, indicate that we are on the right road, the measures applied, the measures taken, and their conclusions, appear to be optimistic. And I thank, in conclusion, the representative of the People's Party for his willingness to dialogue. It has been easy to reach a two-point agreement. The first calls for the evaluation of the previous employment plan, 2014-2016, which we believe is fundamental in order to make further progress, in order to be able to correct the measures to be implemented in the next employment plan –eta nik uste dut EH Bilduk eta Elkarrekin Podemos-ek ere onartu dezaketela–. The second point calls on the Government to present the framework programme for employment and economic recovery in the first half of 2017, which will serve as an umbrella for the employment plan which will also be presented to this House in the relevant committee. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u76	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. We've heard over and over again that in the mouths of the various representatives of this government, and in the various speeches of the President Urkullu, they're going to have a social priority, by using all the qualities and resources of pleasure in the jobs police, to have a better employment and a better quality, and that the basic axis of the political action of the whole business is going to be the basis of the whole joke. But it is true, even once again, that when we speak of employment, Mr. President is not among us. To say the truth, as in other matters, this intention is not new. The former legislation was likewise of the same opinion. We can clearly see this by reading the 2014-2016 program of Economics Suspertion, and the World's Side of Employment 2014-2016, and the 2014-2010-2010-Eplegu Plan. They are like plans in a new and new context. The state of unemployment has continued in 2016 years together with the economy growth, but slower than in earlier years. We've closed the year in Biscaia with 16800 unemployed in the gym and Araban. There may be some facts, but in return: less unemployed, but with a vast rate of structural unemployment: Around 136,000 unemployed, 100,000 out of long-lasted jobs, and many of them in critical years to work. The active population has also collapsed, and Damboren's said so too. There are many who have left unemployment, but not because they have found work, but because they have ceased to be active, and this influences the lowness of unemployment. The rate of unemployment of women is still greater than that of men. Young people move between the preparation and temporality. According to the data, the recovery of the trade will continue, but it is plain that this recovery is growing lower and lower. but this employment which is produced is of bad quality. The funds are lower. The blouse between the few and those who charge the most is increased in the Renaissance. The preacher is crocling and the panoma isn't soft. And, oh, boy! Even in the public sector, the situation is not more delicate than it is in the sector where you're in. A crude and disturbing situation. Subcontracts are becoming more frequent, both in the private and public spheres, which often leads to a deterioration in working conditions. Collective bargaining is blocked. The lehendakari Urkullu is pleased with the intersectoral agreement reached by the employers and trade unions, but also the collective negotiation of the public sphere is blocked, and there it acts as a middle employer. Our labour market has a high level of precariousness. It has already been mentioned before that we are in 93% of contracts that were signed that were temporary, but it is that the temporality rate of the Basque Government itself is about 34%. He told us that 21,000 jobs were lost in public park the other day, ELA and the press are very big. No comparto sleepouto stidento por el señor Damborene. No ven claro cómo va ser el futuro. "Un 60% de las personas desempleadas no titene ningún type de protección." And to us is also the phenomenon of poor workers. I've often mentioned the pensions to ensure that the income fees are 19.5% of the employees. Money is no longer a guarantee that poverty does not exist. And it is true that things are done, and sometimes well done; but having the rate of unemployment we have, we must consider that when we look at Europe, there are very few nations who have a greater degree of unemployment than we do, including Cyprus, Greece, Croatia, and Spain. The others are better off than we are in the state of unemployment. And in this situation and in this new context, it's about to start with the commitment to a decent job, and it's not easy work. This subject is also central for our team, and we've repeated it many times. The theme of the operation, for several reasons, is a fundamental element in the lives of the most men, and in this sense the end must be to establish the whole of the employment policy, integrated, effective, conformable to the will of an advanced society, and placed within a strategy of the future preservation of our hundred economy. The only real option in regard to social justice and human development is to form strong proposals. If the Eplegu strategy wants to answer the social position of the Basque Country, it will have to be reached by a highly intentional position, by seeking the complete transformation of that challenge. And therefore the strategy of employment should be to us three lines of intervention: To create employment in public, in private, and in the cooperative field, in the chances which may be exposed to public, to divide the work, and to merit the conditions of the employment. And from this point of view we took the initiative that we introduced to the Poptular party, which we believe has been a little brief, because I think we all agree on the basis, but it has not been possible to make an agreement. And we consider that this request of the People's Party remains a little short, because if things do not change, Mr Damborenea, after what was heard in the different appearances and the Lehendakari Urkullu, then we will probably be faced with a definite plan in terms and with principles very similar to those of 2014. And there are certain elements, which I would like to remark, in this previous camp program, and in the plan of employment below it, which are also highly connected with the discussion of today, and with the position we have in this discussion. The first is the evaluation of the previous plan, and I think I shall not enlarge it, because we have the consent, right? The plan itself planned to make a evaluation in 2014, and to see at the end another evaluation called ex post or so. Now we might be able to proceed to this evaluation, whether or not the success or failure of the public intervention have been suitable to the management and pursuit mechanisms prescribed. Because the plan is located on that frame, in our opinion, the plan itself would have to be evaluated, and from that point on, as well as that job plan. And with the result of this evaluation, and the detailed diagnosis we now have, we ought to have a foundation for this new plan. I don't know what the frame will be, because the strategic plan of work you published on that list, that frame of plan, which is specified for the President, is not mentioned, but I suppose it will come. And then how to build this plan out of it, how to build it, and to do so, was mentioned in this plan, say, voluntad de diálogo. "Exos principios está la culta del diálogo, la negciación permancente con locus, y se dice que ser un compromis de todas y todos, un reto de país..." In this plan there was also a fair wager for the division and the transparency, and the plan, at least, gave the opportunity... After that, I don't know if we'll agree in the course that's been in later years, but it gave the institutions and economic agents the opportunity to participate in it. It was said that the plan was open and integrated, because it was open to others, and that the plan itself was not only the government, that it was a flexible and open plan, which was opened to cooperation. Now all these elements were collected by our already proposed corrections, and afterwards by the division of Podemos. It's not fixed on any other bases. He seeks to be united, to participate in them all, transparency, the foundation for cooperation, but apparently there will be no agreement? And again, many plans and few actions. I feel that you've decided to play Juan Palomo in this, that "Yo me lo paiso y yo lo como," huh? Eta kontua gives that, although we believe in the lehendakari Urkullu, we need some guarantees, Mr Damborenea. And we need a guarantee that this plan will be constituted as we have marked in that transactional that we have signed with Podemos, based on that shared diagnosis and with the participation of all, and in a public debate. Because the proposal that we have negotiated with Podemos meets these conditions of contemplating evaluation, of guaranteeing political discussion and also of ensuring the participation of all the agents, we will position ourselves in that position that we have commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing on the answering round, Mr. Damborena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Andueza, the mantras and the repetition of them are very good, but then, when discussing them or discussing them, we must be able to maintain them. You tell us about temporality, which is greater. It is larger in the Basque Country; in Spain it is smaller than before the crisis. And the law is the same. And when in Spain the data is better than here we also have to ask ourselves what differential fact we have had in these four years. Apart from the fact that, of course, governments have not acted the same. But we here have had and we have some unions that, in the end, some of them have not collaborated very much in agreements. Things seem to change and it looks like we're going to get better (I wish, I wish), but we have our differential fact, with the same law for everyone. Look, this job reform thing... Every time there is a labor reform everyone complains. I remember the first one Felipe González did, and everyone complained too. And what was it reforming? Franco's laws. Of course, in an economic system of autarchy (of autarchy!), with companies that were monopolies. But, finally, we enter Europe, we compete and we compete. We must therefore adapt to the situation. You tell us about the employment of the public sector, and it has to be the trunk of the public for job creation. I have told you before: all public employment is paid with what comes from the private. Everything. And I told him that in the Basque Country today there are more public jobs than before the crisis. What there is is much less private employees, and in worse conditions. Because not the public; the public employees in this country, compared to the private ones, are privileged. So, when you pick up and ask me here that what is important is public employment, then I don't know who is or lives a little more out of reality. The division of labour is a formula that we already heard in the year 96, in the crisis of the 1990s with Felipe González and socialism: "We must distribute the work". When someone doesn't think of anything to create jobs or promote job creation, then it comes with those things. It turns out that the People's Party arrived, and in eight years it was turned around, nothing had to be distributed, and many more jobs were created. And, as shaking the PP is national sport, the accusation is that there was a lot of mileurist. The drama was that there were people who paid 1,000 euros, right? Today it turns out that the drama is that you charge less. I don't know what obsession you have with Mr. Rosell. I'll tell him he wasn't my favorite candidate for the CEO, but whatever Mr. Rosell says... he'll know what he's saying and why he's saying it. That is not our problem, nor what we are raising here. You tell me the support for small businesses, and I have to tell you that anyone who talks to entrepreneurs (with Confebask, not with Mr Rosell, or with the Alavesa, Vizcaine and Gipuzcoana employers) will tell you that the problem is that companies are too small, and that the problem to grow is that the regulation that exists today is that, as a company goes from small to medium, or from medium to large, because it comes the stick from all aspects (fiscal, labor, economic). And then they don't grow, they don't grow. And then they tell you, "And the problem we have is growth, lowering costs (not work, but costs...), and being able to get out and sell more out." And at some point you'll have to think about that. I'm not saying now that we have to. I'll tell you what. And, of course, the social partners, of course, are necessary when drawing up a plan, but especially the employers. Because employment is ultimately created by employers, whether they are self-employed or through companies, but it is the employers, and of course they must be taken into account. That is, jobs are not going to be created by decree-law, or because let's say we have to create jobs. No! No! This doesn't work that way! It is civil society that has to work, and we have to help it work, not put sticks on the wheels. Mrs. Amaia Arregi, interinstitutional plan, with whom? Man, in this House, when we talked about interinstitutional plans, we have always referred to the Basque Government and outlaws, and, depending on the subject, even the municipalities. And in this area of employment, the outlaws – I say because their party, when it was in opposition, also called for interinstitutional plans in this area – the outlaws have two very important powers: one is the prosecutor, and the other is the investment. And when I was talking about social security affiliates, if I told you before! In Spain it has increased by 3%, and in the Basque Country by 1.46, half. Half that in Spain! It is good to increase, but what happens is that in the rest it is increasing twice as much! And, Mrs Kortajarena, if things don't change and the government keeps doing the same, then we'll get worse. We're going to get worse. We will be less and less, but we will be able to reduce the unemployment rate by 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u79	Finish up, Mr. Damborena...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u80	We will be able to lower it, because, if 30,000 people retire every year, in four years there will be 120,000 more retirees, and there will be 120,000 jobs left there on standby that, only with half of them, we will have withdrawn 60,000 young people from unemployment, without doing much. Now, as a society, what will we be? Less people, older people, and economically and socially unviable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u82	Thank you. Well, I think Mr Damborenea has perfectly explained what his party thinks about employment policy. And that is why we, in what I have come to say, are actually glad that we do not coincide, because we already knew that especially in a matter like this we are very far away. I don't think I've used mantras. I have expressed what my ideas are, which you do not share, as you also use some expressions that could be affirmed as mantras but which I will not do, because I understand that they are based on your own ideology and your own thinking. It does not seem to us correct that comparison that you make between Spain and Euskadi on this subject, because it gives us the feeling that it seems to see where we are most angry the workers. And I assure you that we are absolutely flattered in Malaga or in Sestao, in Irun or in Donostia. You say that public employment is paid with the private. I tell you not only, but not necessarily. Can't there be a public sector that doesn't just generate expenses? Can't there be? We think that yes, and therefore that it is self-sufficient. We think so. Because I have talked about public sectors that also generate other services, not just essential ones. We therefore do not agree with that statement either. And, of course, if they are so concerned about public financing through the private sector, we do not understand their fiscal policies, which usually come to make it easier for businesses, and especially the larger ones, to pay less taxes than they should. Of course, we do not share that the proposal for the distribution of employment, which is indeed very old and our group, our coalition, has been defending it since we existed – and in my specific case, in the United Left, we have been effectively defending it for many years – is no event. It is that here in Euskadi – and I said it also on the first day I intervened here in the investiture of the lehendakari – there are many and many workers who are forced to work more than fifty hours a week. So, sharing those hours of work in more jobs is no coincidence; it is a proposal. It is a concrete proposal that could be put into practice, and I think it is also a very realistic and very necessary proposal. It's no leftist occurrence at all. The social workers? Well, then, yes, we are also in favour of employers' participation, of course, although I will always place more emphasis on union participation, for one reason. We see this from an angle, from the perspective of the workers, and we understand that the unions are the main stakeholders, because they are composed of the workers, and they are the main stakeholders in which there are jobs, and in which there are jobs in conditions. And that is the part that I think is important in the debate, and that is the part where I would like the groups supporting the Government to differ from you. I repeat, employment policies in the future are not going to be enough to reduce unemployment rates. And that's why I was referring to Mr. Rosell. I don't know who your candidate was within the employer, or if I did, but I consider Mr. Rosell much closer to you and your ideas than mine. And the model that arises for us to get out of the crisis, not only in the Basque Country and not only in the Spanish State, but especially in southern Europe, the model that arises is to go to a new labour market where the conditions of workers are much more precarious than those before the crisis. And employment rates will be recovered, but if we continue along that path, the rates of working conditions, which were already bad before the crisis, will not be recovered. And that is what I think is also at the heart of this debate, and that is what I would like the parties supporting the government, and especially the Socialist and Workers' Party, to distinguish them from you. I do agree with you on one thing you said: "If the government continues to do the same, we will get worse." I do agree with you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u83	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Finally, you in the transaction you have arrived at, the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu group, request that in three months a plan of employment be drawn up with participation..., finally, with many dressings. It gives me the feeling that you and we do not live in the same orbit, in the sense that my day has twenty-four hours, and it is tremendously complicated to fulfill everything you ask, with a process of participation, in which you also make us a list of participants in that process, to do so in just three months. Anyway, I'm one of the supporters that it's much wiser not to run and do things right to the first, than not to get into a whirlwind that's not going to lead us to anything. In any case, you also talk about redistribution, rationalization of businesses, public employment... And my question is how. Because I could get as utopian as you, who is great, eh!, it's the simplest thing: come here, get utopian, make a wonderful speech, but then it's useless. And that's the reality. Anyway, I prefer to be practical. I prefer to be pragmatic, to be practical, to bring tangible realities, to make a good diagnosis, and to implement concrete measures, without going into utopias. Of course the ideal would be what you propose to us! But is it possible? That's the question I ask you. I think I have been quite clear in my presentation, and the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mrs Arregi, I think that too: this framework programme goes far beyond what employment means. It is a much more transversal, much broader, much more ambitious programme, if I may. Finally, I believe that participation is guaranteed to the extent that, directly or indirectly, we are all going to be able to make contributions. Right directly, because I am convinced that each and every one of the advisors who make up this government... They don't have any glue in meeting anyone. Or they can even do so indirectly, to the extent that each and every political group that we make up this House does not have any leverage in receiving their contributions and transferring them to the Government. I am at least part of my group, and of the other group that supports the Government. But one thing is to want dialogue and another is, from the opposition, to want to protect the Government. One thing is his work of control, of control of the Government, and another is his ambition to protect the work of the Government. If you want to protect the Government, I invite you to enter into a process of dialogue, negotiation, entry into the Government, and direct participation. But don't let them try to protect you from the opposition. They refer, as always, to Article 199. Finally, it is something that is within the Rules of Procedure and to which you have had to take a liking, to Article 199, but you do not need to repeat it constantly, because it is a regulatory reflection with which the Government, as it could not otherwise be, will comply. And, going back to utopia, they did almost everything to public employment, and I really tell you that I think somehow it's cheating on the lonely, to the extent that I think you too will be aware that the global problem that we have is not solved solely and exclusively with public employment. I hope you share it. I hope you share it. To the representative of the EH Bildu group, at last, welcome to the diagnosis. And I say welcome to the diagnosis because about three years ago, when the crisis was plagued with all the cruelty of the world and you were ruling in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, there were two junta groups, such as the Socialist Juntero Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, which we put on the table a plan of economic reactivation and job regeneration that, in the voice of the spokesman of your Government (I regret that again it touches you, Mrs Ugarte), was described as something "necessary or urgent". Those were the exact words of the Government spokesman at the time. And that plan went ahead, as I said, with the votes of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, among other groups; we passed it on to the government, and you want to know what you did? Do not spend a hard one of the 50 million that were budgeted, and do absolutely nothing. Therefore, welcome to the diagnosis and welcome to the task and the work of getting to work on solving the problems we have in this country. You said the plan would be insufficient, that... Finally, you have made a series of qualifications that seem to me – if I may, with all due respect, and I am finishing – somewhat bold. I would expect to have that plan on the table, to qualify it, to analyse it, to study it, to make the corresponding contributions, which of course I also expect from your group, in order to qualify it, as I said, and to define it as you deem appropriate. I therefore stick to the wish I made at the end of my first speech. I believe that this task is not only for the Government, I do not think it is only for the groups that we are going to carry out this proposal, but I think it is for everyone, and I hope that over the course of these six months, and especially when we have this framework programme on the table, we will all be able, from objectivity, loyalty and constructive spirit, to make contributions so that we can get it right forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u86	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Yes, we quite agree on the diagnosis. unemployment and unemployment are one of the most important cares of society, and ours as social builders, of course, is one of our principal cares. Eta argi dago ez of her error dagoen egoerari buelta ematea. Erraza izango balitz, if there was a magic wand, because obviously there would be no unemployment either in Euskadi, in Burgos, in Madrid, in Valencia, in Andalusia, or in any community governed by different political parties. It is clear that employment is not generated by decree or by decree. What we understand is that it is the institutions that have to put the means, the mechanisms to create the conditions, the guarantees, so that there is some stability and that employment can be generated. In our view – and that is what we share with Mr Damborenea – employment is created primarily by entrepreneurs, and what the institutions must do is help, be and try to create these conditions so that more employment can be generated. On the subject of public employment, as Mr Andueza said, it is very nice to talk about public employment, that we must create more public employment from the institutions, also the issue of rationalization and redistribution of time, I do not know if also of wages and salaries, or what remains as it is... I think it is very good to specify all this, or at least mention it, but without determining how they want to carry it out. Because mentioning and going from utopia to utopia is nice, but very difficult to put into practice because where they are ruling I don't think they are either. So, if that were so easy, they would be doing it in those places where they have government responsibilities. On the subject of plans, there is one thing that seems that sometimes some representatives are forgotten. The responsibility and initiative to implement a government plan lies with the Government as such. And, of course – and we have said this in the first intervention and the Government is demonstrating it on a day-to-day basis – it will speak to all those entities and economic and social actors who are willing to contribute, to meet, to contribute and to be..., well, in that constructive criticism, to improve that government plan, the government's initiative, so that it can be improved and brought to this Parliament, expose it, and once you see it, as Mr Andueza said, what you think should be improved, etc. But the plan is an initiative of the Government, and the Government brings it here and presents itself and explains itself, but let us not forget what each one's work is. Here Parliament's work is of control over the government, of course, but the work and responsibility for presenting this plan lies with the executive, who, of course – and he has said so – will have all the input from all the groups who want to do it, and also from the other institutions. Because of course we believe in interinstitutional collaboration (of the deputies, of Eudel too, Mr Damborenea), and of all those economic and social actors who want to participate (unions, employers, etc.). But he also said that in order for two to speak and dialogue, in order for a dialogue to take place, there must be at least two parties and both must be convinced and at least sit down and try to reach agreements, to make this employment plan as effective as possible. Because I honestly believe that we all agree on that. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Finally, representative of the EH Collector. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u88	Madam: Well, thank you. Mr Damborenea, you say that employment is created by employers (I understand that also businesswomen), but there are also other agents who are responsible for ensuring that this job is of quality. It is where it arises, in that dialogue between the two parties it is where the guarantees arise. And in addition, if there were any doubts that things might get worse, it would be interesting if we could establish some guarantees of initiation. No more. Trade unions have been mentioned on several occasions, both by Mr Damborenea and by Mrs Arregi, as the only cause of the blockade. And it is true that the parties have to be present in the dialogues, but for that to happen the positions must also be on both sides, not only on one side. Mr Andueza, to be clear, I am not going to go into the issue of Gipuzkoa, although the competences in employment are quite different in the Basque Government and in the foreign parliament. And, to be clear, you proposed... On the subject of dates you had a mistake, because an evaluation is proposed in three months and a plan in six. If the reason there was no agreement – by the way, to which no one has invited me, nor our group – was the time, they could have commented, eh! No more. And you ask us how. Mrs Arregi has already replied that the responsibility for making a plan lies with the Government. Anyway, you guys don't make that any clearer, do you? Because here we were establishing something else. Neither we nor we want, nor do I think Elkarrekin We may want to protect anyone. We want to work on a challenge that has been defined as a country. And, by the way, this very formula, this same formula that was proposed for this debate, enunciating some actors who could participate in the discussion, the collaboration with other actors and all this subject, that same formula is that which we agreed in the GIR debate and in the Lanbide debate. They're very similar formulas. With regard to article 199, the truth is that I do, because it is the one that guarantees how it will be formulated. And if we have to withdraw it, Mr Erkoreka will have to withdraw it too, because it is from his proposals from where we have copied it. Yes, Mr. Andueza. And Mrs Arregi I believe I have already shown her my willingness to reach an agreement. I still think that the differences in this sense are minimal, and it is a simple gesture to guarantee certain formulas. The thing is, here I think you've preferred the easy deal. The agreement with the PP was much more comfortable, because the approach there was much more comfortable for the Government. I can understand that! But also, from my position, you will understand that we want to be more ambitious. There's no other mystery in that sense. It is the cheap agreement, it is the easiest agreement, and on this occasion, as there was no alternative, they have resorted to it. But this same formula is what we have agreed for the GIR debate and the Lanbide debate, Mr Andueza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-class correction signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u90	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u91	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal of the parliamentary teams, in order to ensure the subjective right of access to the social services, a parliamentary poncism. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u92	Again, Mr. President of the Parliament, good afternoon. It is true that my subjects do not promote such great interests, as I see, but it will also be time. We are here today to discuss the legislation of the legislature in order to ensure the subjective right of access to social services. In 1982, since the law of the First Social Services had been recognized, this member of the Renaissance has had an ancient, modern, progressive view of the social service, and I have spoken of it several times. For the laws which we have been able to organize and structure the system of social services have given us; and by this means the right of all the citizens to receive social services, and by organizing a whole system of social services for public responsibility, the social services have been made the means of becoming one of the other foundations of the welfare of our society. Nevertheless, the greatest difficulty has been in setting the management and co-ordination tools necessary to promote and guarantee the rights of social services in this course. To answer these difficulties, the law of the 12/2008 Social Services was justly adopted by all the political groups which represented the legislature at its own time. The principal element of the new system of rules, which is the right of a citizen, was to claim the right of social services as a subjective right. To re-establish the use of this subjective right, the law says that it must necessarily be built on the euscal system of the social services, the public responsibility, the modern, the advanced, and the remator, as well developed as other systems of well-being, endowed with tools of management and co-ordination which are able to structure the three levels of administration, and which will contain within itself an articulate network of readiness and services. In accordance with the most advanced formularies in this form, it was chosen by this law to establish a system for necessity, according to its nature and character. The law is organized in the following elements: The public responsibility for services, universality, closeness, and debasement for the population, and the use of equity and equity, prevention, integration, normalization, the integrated and continuous attention of each person, the complete and complete attention of discipline and quality, the co-operation of systems, of public and formal activities, of citizens, of society, of society, and all that. But the growth of the 12/2008 law has been slower than it would have been. Although the efforts have been made, the development of this law, so advanced and so modern, is not at all necessary. The following regulations were followed by the structure of the system of social services, and, after many discussions, the law was adopted in 2015 to structure the Omnipotent system, and to guarantee the subjective right of social services: Decree 1885/2015 Decree of the Euscal Systems of Social Services. This Decree uses this right to ensure that it really makes use of several basic elements: The general and specific conditions of the acquisition of each economic service and preparation, when the time of the system exceeds (which is the 25th of the past), are enabled to claim judicially and administratively. The 2016-2010 of the Social Services, which was also agreed on. And despite the development of the social services of December and public responsibility in 2016, I accept the ethrobs, the situation is a lot of concern. In the same way as several authors had mentioned during the course of the year, the system of this decree required adaptations and the difficulties which were being effected during the process of adaptation showed itself in several kinds of forums. And even more so, these concerns became an alarm in the midst of social services as soon as they recognized the latest report of the Arriad. In fact, this report confirmed the concerns described by the agents, and presented us to a reality: the great differences in the townships of social service, the weakness of the access of social services, the inflection of finances, the decoination of the administration, the absence of a certain functionary within the Eudel (Eud himself has asked time to study and to pursue the condition). Normative development might have been useful to this extent, almost motionless. It's a question of social workers working on the social service. The confessional of these professionals. Model strip for hand. We lack a basic intervention, and we do not have the necessary tools and informal software (such as some of the most consistent services and other nonexistent services, such as those which are directed to those who are in the state of retirement). Services running with private criteria. And that which is extremely troubling, the ignorance of the people who are about their rights. We could continue to enumerate it, but I don't think that's the plan now. The social service system had to take a long step up to the first level in December. He should go up to a division of systems like education and health, but as often happens, there is a great difference between paper and reality. And in this case, that side is kilometric. The equality of choice which the law acknowledges amongst the people is essentially not respected, and the subjective right of collecting social services is not guaranteed. In the leaders and co-ordination functions of the Moors... there's a lot of regrets. And the disadvantages of the policy of social service become a priority and to give the budgets the priority they need are clear. And the lack of the right funding which would guarantee the education of social services. We may conclude from all this that the system of social services has no sufficient political protection. And I say all this, because I speak of the cares that every one has had. And we have read that the Esscal institutions require two more years to obey the laws of the Social Services. After eight years, two more: That's 10. In ours, however, the necessities of care and of protection rise, because the characters of the public are one, and the cases of poverty and neglect rise up. And I have often repeated, that a people desirous of being advanced must be obliged to protect and guard their fellow-men. And in that job it's essential to have a strong system of eucalyptic social services. We can't accept any extension on this. In the field of rights the Morallies are not permitted, much less, in relation to the rights of persons who have most need of them. To direct the situation, the participation of all will be necessary. In order that the system of social services may be universal, and that the right may be guaranteed, we need the cooperation of all. Following the recommendations of the intermediary and of those who have been trained and expert in these matters, it is necessary that the observance of certain parts of the law of the Social Services should be adapted and the map of services to the present day, to make use of the scientific development required by the wallet, to define the appropriate financial model, to define the model of social intervention, to give a change to the leadership of services and preparations, and to take advantage of this leader, to examine and improve the conditions of social laborers. It is essential to inform the citizens of their rights, that they may receive the consciousness of their rights. In fine, from this Kathotic system, organized over other elements, it is essential to jump to a future strategy which will make this real protection and care possible. To do this, discussion and co-working are indispensable. And with this expedition of ours to this day, we would express our concern in the present state of the system of euscal social services, and therefore proposed to form a number of legislatures, from the exact diagnosis of the present state, in order to execute, debate, and propose the subjective right to the public services, which the law acknowledges to the people. Together, the members of Podemos have agreed to this request, but this podency does not seem to support the other members of the legislature. It's a pity we'd like to get the discussion out of agreement and the responsibility of the situation. But we'll probably have a way, it'll be the same again. This discussion, I think, cannot be avoided in either case. In the first semester of 2017, it's time for the evacuation of the strategic plan, and I think that's going to be shared. And in that list of plans and programs you've made public, there is also an strategic plan of social service, 2020 (the previous was between 2016-2019). I don't know if there's any change in it, but I still think we'll have to find it on that level, and we'll have to argue. And our intention is to combine, in this sense, our wife Artolaland, and we have mentioned more than once, about these matters which she was about, about which people are placed in the midst of, but which, in an honest discussion, she has had and has had from the care of every one, and in this intention of looking for agreements. And we think it's not a good choice to stick and hide reality in it, and sometimes to make too many of these realities suspicious. "Essal oasia is still specjism in these matters, and we live from the rent and live from the rent many of these institutions at this moment of euscal. Because the system, if it is organized, is true, as is often said, that there are services, but many of these services, which you have done in this world, are not very well matched with the standards and principles which the law prescribes, and are arranged with the principles which this organizational system directs. If, then, you have any will to act in this matter, and if you have any intention, we shall act together, and then we shall seek out these ways for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u94	Hello, everyone. Thank you, President, guests, congressmen. Today we are here to talk about the Basque Law of Social Services, a pioneering law, a law that makes us head and recognize the right of Basque citizenship to access social services, as well as the equalization of social services with other rights. A law which establishes as its objective to promote and guarantee, within the framework of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the right to social benefits and services through the regulation and management of a Basque system of universal character. The law itself is beautiful, the law which gave many professionals and people hope. But in proportion as time proceeds, and by so much practice, than a challenge which ought to aid us in improving this law, it has become self-accusable. Don't get us wrong. It seems to us that the Social Services Act is a law that deserves our full respect and even applause, because it is a law shared and agreed by this House, because it is a law that on paper takes a step forward in the recognition of the social rights of people as something multidimensional and whose value is not below, but at the same time as other rights, such as health or education. In this connection, from our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos, we have been defending that there are no rights of first and second, as we do not believe that there should be citizenship of first and second. But for that it is essential that we stop thinking. We understand that we have to think, and that in this case we are not here to wear medals or to see who gets the most media projection. This debate that we have has to do with improving the living conditions of the population, and with that respect we have to address it. From this point of departure, there are issues that we are concerned about and that we consider to be quite well described in the proposal we are discussing, but we think it is important to make this clear. Because we see it on the street, on the day-to-day of neighbors and neighbors, and we know that the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services is being uneven, and that according to where you live you will find one reality and one way to exercise the right or another. Because Ararteko says so, and to check it is as simple as asking any user: if you live in one place or another, the working tools of social services are not the same and, therefore, the right is not exercised on equal terms, and often there is no coordination, no communication, no planning to the extent of that right. Because we also know that we have good work to do, because it is essential to address the missing legislation, the procedures that do not yet exist and the inequalities that the Ararteko points out to us, among other things. Because the parliamentary presentation is a solid framework in which to address issues of this magnitude with a global perspective that benefits citizens and focuses on them. We are committed to this area to work, to put an end to the misadjustments and inequalities that exist today in the Basque system of social services. Because social actors know reality many times better than the institutions themselves. Their participation is an essential element. Let me once again say it in this rostrum (I am sure it will not be the last): we are not here to do what our brilliant heads think; we are here to work for citizenship, but also, and above all, with it. Because the attitudes we have seen so far are not welcome. It is not a receipt that, when asked about the Ararteko report, the counsellor answers by questioning the results of another institution, hiding that it has been done with data without updating. We – as I say, Mrs Artolazabal – have a deep respect for this report, a report that has been produced by a very capable institution, which employs appropriate methodologies (particularly those of a qualitative nature seem to us), with the opinion of professionals and public officials experts in the sector, among whom have been very relevant people in the field and many public officials who occupy or have occupied space in your Government. But, in addition to respect, it seems to us that it is essential to ask whether, as you say, at the end of 2015, when this report was drawn up, municipalities and parliaments did not have the duties done, why they were going to have them by the end of 2016. Allow me to doubt that, because because of my previous activity, I know the field firsthand. We do not want to stop any longer at this, because I understand that when Ararteko comes to the committee we will have more room to talk about it, but it seems important to us to point out that, instead of throwing balls out, what we have before us is to get to work. Because it cannot be that the gateway to the social services system lacks information, different and non-comparable indicators are used; it cannot be that the deployment of the portfolio in the municipalities lacks sufficient budgets, or we see a lack of a common model at work. And finally, in order to talk about a subject so complex and so important, we should have a particular summary of the state of the expansion of the system of social services. And that's all you can do from the government. These I have pointed out as headlines I think are enough things, that give us to think, and above all to make this presentation not only a necessity, but an urgency. As I have already commented, in Elkarrekin We may not think that we have to play with something so important to the citizenry seeking to draw political revenue, but we do think that it is essential to put on the table the dysfunctions of the system and think comprehensive solutions that can be implemented quickly. We also believe that this must be done among all: among those who in one way or another have knowledge and experience, those who in one way or another have the political will to do so, and, of course, those who, like you, have the responsibility to do so. We understand that the itinerary to work on a subject like this must necessarily be paused, because it takes a lot of work. We also know that there are things that not only depend on this Government, but we are convinced that, having spent eight years proclaiming this right to right and wrong, today it is not worth playing that there has been no time or we have not developed all the tools. Because, as I have said before in this House, that is a matter of will, not of possibility: where is the political will of this Government, and where is the political will of the parties that support it. Let us look for spaces to discuss and reflect together, to learn from citizens, and above all to comply with the law. We cannot close our eyes to the evidence that there are things, that are not very few, that are not being done entirely well. It is neither tolerable nor fair for citizens that on 27 December 2016, one day after the subjective right to social services became effective, the Araba Diputación agrees with the municipalities to continue to provide services of municipal competence, because it is essential to provide their functions and budget for the deployment to the municipalities, and because – I will use their own words on 18 January – the Basque System of Social Services bets on the community model and to consolidate primary care that constitutes a key factor for the quality of life of people in their desired environments, strengthening autonomy and relational life. We sincerely hope that they will give the opportunity to share a space of joint reflection between the executive, the legislature, and people and social actors with knowledge of the subject, in order to seek solutions and avoid the perpetuated issues such as those I have mentioned, for the misfortune of Basque citizenship. Therefore, today we support EH Bildu's proposal, and we deeply regret the predictable rejection of the rest, because we understand that there are issues where the target or population affected must be paramount and be at the centre of the action of this House. If today your vote ends up being against this proposal, I understand that you will not have lived up to the responsibility we have. Finally, I would like to mention that we believe that the subjective right to social services must be a priority in the work of the Government, because recognition of the right is a fundamental step, but not the only one that must be taken. If we do not continue this path, we will only be able to empty that right of content, and that will not lead us anywhere to any of those present, but above all it will mean leaving many people, many of them in a very complicated situation. I would like to remind you of what the Deputy Councillor of Social Affairs said at the time of the work of this law, Fernando Fantova: "The protection and promotion of interaction understood as functional autonomy and relational integration is proposed as the object of social services." And, for that to be possible, in Elkarrekin We can understand that we must all put our hands and put this issue in the place of relevance it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing to teams that don't run, the Basque Popular Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, good afternoon. I go up to this tribe to express the position of the Popula on the EH Union proposal. The object of this proposition is to make a pomp, and to fill it with the subjective use of rights, together with certain institutions and authorities. We must remember, as has been said here, how the first Law of the Social Services in the Esquire in Escal Autonomy, is 1982, as has been said here. The second, the 1996 Law came, and then the last law, is the 5th of December 2008, which was tried in order to adapt itself to social changes and to reality. I rise to the rostrum to determine the position of the People's Party in relation to the initiative presented by the EH Bildu group in relation to the formation of a paper so that the subjective right of access to social rights which the legislation recognizes can be exercised with guarantees, with the participation of different social institutions and actors. As has been said here, the first law dates back to 1982; then came the 1996 law, and in order to bring the regulations in force at that time into line with the social reality and the challenges that exist at that time in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Law 12/2008 of 5 December was adopted. The novelties of this law lie mainly in a number of aspects. The central element of this law is the declaration of the subjective right to social services, constituted as a right to citizenship. In order to ensure the effective exercise of this right, the Basque System of Social Services, public responsibility and universal coverage is therefore formed, which articulates a set of services and services to provide an effective and efficient response, as I said earlier, to the present and future challenges that we have as a society. The law, as you all know, defines the catalogue of services and services that make up the Basque System of Social Services, which, as I said earlier, constitute the Basque System of Social Services that will have to be developed and implemented throughout the Basque Autonomous Community. Thus, the Strategic Plan for Social Services, which included the configuration of the social services map, was developed. And the consolidation of a Basque system of social services requires ensuring access to the same services and services throughout the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Therefore, the Social Services Act guarantees access to services and services that are set out in the catalogue of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services as a universal and subjective right, which could be enforced through the complaint before the courts once the deadline has been met, which the law itself marks for the universalization of the Basque System of Social Services, which, as you know, was set at the end of last December. Therefore, according to the provisions of this law, Decree 185/2015 of 16 October, regulating the Portfolio of Social Benefits and Services, was issued, thus establishing a catalogue of corresponding services and services. Apart from the claim in the judicial sphere that recognizes the law itself to give effect to the exercise of the subjective right, there is a high inspection, which is also regulated by this law. This figure, which, by the way, was also introduced..., then there was an agreement, but with regard to an amendment originally made by the People's Party, this figure is reflected in the law in article 82, which states that the Basque Government is responsible for the high inspection of social services in order to ensure the effective exercise of the subjective right proclaimed in article 2. Efectivaente, and, as has been said here, Arlia introduced a solution or a report that is not much now, and here the absence of social services is clearly stated. It is true that there are too few information in it, and that the indifferent are not sufficiently developed, that the law is not sufficiently developed, and says other things, because there is no standard in common to support certain and precise services. But it's the precise thing about the funding that's going on in the interrogator's report. It says that it is a difficulty in the institutions, especially for the people of the Forum, and for the councils the lack of contamination or economic resources. Indeed, as the proposer, Mrs Kortajarena, has pointed out here, the Ararteko report on the situation of municipal services in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country points to a number of shortcomings in the development of the Social Services Act. Of course, it speaks of sufficient information, it speaks of very slow, even insufficient, policy development in many respects, when specific aspects remain outstanding. But where this Ararteko report focuses is on an issue that is fundamental to us – and that is why we have also raised an absolutely necessary debate, which we will then have the opportunity to discuss in this House on this issue – which is the reform and amendment of the Act on Contributions. We are talking here about the need to ensure access to subjective rights, services and benefits guaranteed by the Social Services Act, that these rights are defined as subjective rights, but it is clear that a difficulty that is being faced by the institutions that have to provide these services, which are essentially the deputies and the municipalities, is the lack of funding they have to deal with many of the competences entrusted to them, such as first or nearest administrations, under the current legislation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs Guanche, when we speak in this rostrum of bringing forward real debates, let us talk about bringing forward real debates and effective debates. That is why the People's Party has been bringing in the first full-scale initiatives of this legislature that have to do with the real problems. We have put forward a proposal to amend the income guarantee income regulations. We have put forward a proposal to draw up a reform plan for Lanbide. We have also brought today a proposal to draw up an interinstitutional employment plan in the context of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with the participation of the various institutions. And, therefore, after this debate, we will discuss the amendment of the Law on Contributions, the reduction of that vertical coefficient that allows the foral and municipal institutions (foral diputations and municipalities) to cope with the competences they have entrusted. You have a magnificent opportunity to remedy many of the shortcomings that you have referred to in this rostrum here today, this afternoon in this debate. And to vote for the initiative of the People's Party, which in its point 2 clearly states that "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to agree on a bill in the Basque Finance Council which raises the participation coefficient of the municipalities and parliaments in the distribution of revenues by agreed taxes of the whole of the Autonomous Community, which makes the financing of social services possible". So, let's talk about realities. In that regard, I have to announce that we are going to vote against the compromise proposal signed by the two groups, EH Bildu and Podemos, because we believe that it is not the time to set up a paper to guarantee a subjective right. The right is recognized in the law. We had the opportunity to discuss this law in depth and all the amendments, which were multiple (and I say that the high inspection is reflected in the law as a competence of the Basque Government following an original amendment of the People's Party). We believe that this, of course, is not the solution, and the solution may be for this House to take into consideration the initiative to draw up a law on contributions that gives more resources to the municipalities and to the parliaments to deal with the competences they have in the field of social services. Therefore, Mrs Guanche, Mrs Kortajarena, if we talk about real and effective debates, take more account of the initiatives of the People's Party, which we certainly believe are effective in solving the problems that you bring us through other initiatives in this House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u97	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez... Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u98	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the initiative of the EH Bildu Group to set up a parliamentary presentation to guarantee the subjective right of access to social services. My group, the Basque Socialists, has not tabled an amendment to this initiative because we do not agree with the need for a parliamentary presentation in this area. And we don't agree on the bottom or the shape. We do not agree that the presentation should be submitted for a period of six months, with a prior diagnosis. Because when you want to do a study, a broad, calm, calm debate – as they pointed out – to put an expiration date on the already-departure presentation seems illogical to us. But we also believe that it is up to the Government, in coordination with the rest of the institutions, to carry out this work. And again you here want to protect government action. They could have raised it, Mrs Kortajarena, when the decree was made, and they did not, their group did not. And you also supported the Cartera Decree of 2015, as you also supported municipal law. That is why we are going to vote against the initiative we are debating today. But we also disagree with the substance. The Basque Socialists have been actively involved in the development of the social model we have with today in Euskadi, and we will continue to do so. Law 12/2008 of 5 December, in addition to regulating and ordering the Basque System of Social Services, of a universal nature under public responsibility, and the duty of coordination and cooperation of public administrations between themselves and with private initiative, establishes the subjective right of access to social services to all persons who have the right to access them. To this end, it defines the services to be offered by the municipalities to which citizenship is entitled. Socialists were key to the adoption of the Social Services Act 2008, and for socialists the development and strengthening of social policies has always been one of our political priorities. It was in the previous legislature, and it will continue to be in the current legislature. We have been his main advocate, exercising opposition when necessary, and agreeing in positive order to strengthen and expand these public policies. We believe that social services must be defined as guarantors of the quality of life to which everyone is entitled simply because he or she is a citizen, on equal terms and without any discrimination in access to the exercise of that right. The economic crisis has increased the possibilities and causes for citizens to fall into social exclusion. Today there are many workers who, even though they have jobs, do not come out of poverty, and child poverty has reached levels higher than those of adults. We are aware of that. That is why we are committed to strong public intervention, so that we can guarantee, above all, equal access and opportunities for all Basque citizens. A Basque system of public and universal social services. The development of the law has been slow, I agree, and it is not until 2015 that the Basque Social Services System Service and Services Portfolio Decree has been passed. It is up to the Basque Government and the rest of the institutions (deputies and municipalities) to continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that they are put into operation without any imbalances. The Social Services Act itself recognizes the duty of cooperation and inter-administrative coordination, which is inherent in an integrated system of social services as we have developed in our Autonomous Community, as well as the implementation of the existing Strategic Social Services Plan, which is a fundamental tool for deploying the system. It is above all a planning tool for Basque public administrations, in order to consolidate the Basque System of Social Services and move towards its universalization. That's what he's playing right now. For this reason, we do not think that the creation of the parliamentary presentation for the guarantee of the subjective right of access to social services is appropriate, and our group will vote against the initiative put forward. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u99	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. To ensure the subjective right of access to the social service, we propose another question concerning the organization of a band of legislatures. The eubertarian party did not address any correction to the initiative, because we do not see any need for this work. The law of the 12/2008 Social Services guarantees the subjective rights. They are strongly supported by the law, and therefore for what purpose should the legislature set up again? In 2008, before the law was approved, the legislature was formed and worked on, and all the groups we're represented here today were able to participate, except Podemos, who was not yet formed. As the original initiative says, in 1982 the first Act on Social Services of the CAV was passed, with a pioneering, modern and progressive vision, promoting and guaranteeing the right of all citizens to receive social services, having developed into another pillar of our welfare society. The fourth pillar of the welfare state. In order to alleviate the practical difficulties, as Mrs Kortajarena said, in establishing the management and coordination instruments necessary to fully implement the promotion and guarantee of the right to social services, Law 12/2008 was adopted, as set out the justification for the GNP we are discussing. But here the agreement ends, Mrs. Kotja's. The law was not unanimous. And I'll tell you what teams didn't say yes: The five members of the left bank gave the law a round negative, and the only members of the Aralaar were paid absce, and the five members of the left wing were those of EH Collector. All the other teams voted for him and so he went on. Check the meeting diary. Yet welcome, though late as ever, to acknowledge the advantages of the law. In the basic initiative, two whole paragraphs are used to praise the law, among other things, the origin of the organ between the organization of social services, and we entirely agree with what these paragraphs say, that we saw the benefits of the law from the first moment, and so we agreed with it. It is true, as other spokespersons have also said, that the development of this law has been slower than we would have liked, but it is no less true that Decree 185/2015, of the Portfolio of Services and Services of the Basque System of Social Services, states that from December 26, 2016, all persons who meet the requirements set out will be able to claim compliance with that right. The subjective right to social services is established by law, and the Cartera Decree is nothing more than the realization of the services and benefits to which citizenship is entitled. As provided for in the Social Services Act, and following the adoption of Decree 187/2015, the universalization of the Basque System of Social Services has materialized, and people have a subjective right to the services and benefits referred to in the Cartera Decree mentioned above. Subjective law recognized since 2008. Again, I ask you why, and why, in order to ensure the subjective right, we create a group of legislatures, which are guaranteed by the law itself and by the regulations which it develops. We shall speak openly, and long in peace, about the state of social services, when we have the performance. That's why I didn't want to get into this subject, but I'll only say a few things to Mrs. Guanche, because she's used some part of her first part of it to talk about the Artian report. And what the Ararteko says in that report on social services, Mrs Guanche, is a picture of a fixed moment, of a given moment, and much earlier in time at the time of its publication, when many of the glues and dysfunctions had already been overcome. We will have time, however, to talk about this when the Ararteko comes to explain the report (we can ask you questions, etc.). And we would also like to have the view of the municipalities and outlaws on this, because they are involved. On the subject of the Álava Foral Diputation that I was saying, and the municipalities, well, as you know... I think you will know the reality of Araba. For it is what it is, and obviously the parliament is giving services because the municipalities themselves cannot give them. The important thing is that the service should be given, and given in the best possible conditions. For all that has been explained, we will not protect the basic initiative, so we will not vote for the amendment, even now we will not support the medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Madame Kortja's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u102	Good afternoon again. Argree would welcome me to defend the benefit of the law, but I have defended the benefit of this law long ago, very long ago, and worked with equipment marked by these and decrees, both in the Forundudia of Gipu, with the crew now existing in the Forti, and with the crew of the Biziko Fordun, both of the two. I don't have any complexities to say that it's a good law, and that every time they've been here and outside, I've accepted that. That's to make it clear. And for co-worker, and for the wallet's sake, I've always had all my will. And, on the other hand, you asked me why and why. Well, why and why... because all these things which you mention are perfectly well, because the law defines the frames very well on paper, are, as has been said, a very competent frame, but because they do not yet fill it, and because there are still many difficulties in it, and there are still many still to be defined. For instance, Mrs. Guanche and you have also brought her here, and we see in the case of the Arada that the difficulties were characteristic of the difficulties and the characteristics of the bakke, and that it was also a question about the model. That's right. This appears in your declarations, that a reflection must be explained. And the July map of the Arab had been tested. When did Mrs. Artola generous try the map? In July, the law broke in on December. Not long to test the map and set all services in motion, in my opinion. What we were planning here was to open the discussion, and because we think it's very nice what the law says. I shall repeat it over and over. But because these plans must be carried out. And they have to be executed in things normal. And at the present day there are some services which are connected, and others are not connected; there are some services connected in the Gipu, which are not in the lungs; and the consolidations are divided by certain services which are not in the Gipulia; and so many others in the Araban. And there are great differences in living in one country or living in the other. There are great differences. Many of the agents who have to run these services in many townships and in many of the town halls, and many of the agents in the administration, are still in great difficulty, because they have not given the Normative development of those tiles which would have been to be wallets. And it was our intention to get together with this excellence. And it's not an excuse, Mrs Sánchez, it's not a tutelace plan, even though you're repeating it over and over again, it's a formula for collaboration. Don't you like it? Well, we'll find another way to get that conversation, because Mrs. Arreg mentioned the occurrence of the art. We have requested the representation of the intermediary, as well as the representation of the Mrs. Artolarians, in order to explain the situation in which all this country is situated, and we shall make our way. We'll do that, we'll try to do it together. But what we can't allow is that everything's fine, that service doesn't matter who's ready. That's one of the tricks you make. It is said to the citizen: "No, the people will receive service in the same manner; they will be ready." No! And it is not the same with how and in what manner this service is offered. There's a potential frame. And what happens at the moment, as Gloria Sánchez used to say, was to manage and carry on the way the service regulates it, and to follow what is not. No, what you have to do is work on the path marked by that frame. And it's time for us to work together. There's nothing else, because the cares are shared, and there are some in the town halls, and some in the forum, and others in the government, some in private stocks and places, but with the same care and the like, for those who need most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u104	Well, let's see if I don't have anything left. Mrs Garrido, about the deep debates and your propositions, I don't want to take too many pictures, because in fact I have a lot of tirria, but I do think it's real that a very large percentage of the population can be worried about this, or worried about it. Maybe you don't know, or maybe we have different realities. It is true that there is high inspection, it is true that the law establishes many control and monitoring mechanisms, which have their functions, but it is also true, as a good friend always tells me, that administrative law is designed so that one cannot defend oneself collectively. And what we bring here is to solve a problem or a possible problem that the system may have. We believe that the knowledge that can be acquired by citizens subject to the law at the end is also a knowledge that has to do with the reality in which those people exercise it or do not exercise it. Which is why what we are bringing here is trying to have a global knowledge of the system. "Eight years after the passing of the law, the context has changed a lot." I do not agree, and, if I read the explanatory statement, I do not believe that the only reason for passing this law was to adapt at the moment. I firmly believe that it was a recognition of the right. If I was wrong... then, well, anyway, the law I've already said at the beginning of my exhibition that I like. Mrs. Sánchez, I'm surprised your refusal to talk things over. I thought we were coming to this Parliament to talk. And, with the defense and pride that this law represents to you historically, I am surprised by the level of nerves that denotes your statement that we are talking again, something that is not necessarily the competence of Parliament, although I personally believe that it is. I believe that the control function is a competence of this Parliament, and I believe that this presentation can be a way of exercising it. Maybe I'm wrong; as I said, I'm new to this. Mrs Arregi, "right is guaranteed by law." Next day 13 we have a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy at which three associations come to report on non-compliance with the law. And really, do they really think that all citizens know that they have this right and know how they have to exercise it? Really? I have worked for many years as a social worker, and I have known the regulations since knowing how it has been applied throughout this time. As a professional and companion to many people, it has been hard for me to understand exactly how it works, and it is still hard for me to understand today completely how some things are going to end up fitting in. And I have the global vision of being here and looking at the regulations, of being able to want a space for dialogue, which is seen to be too crazy a request, but, well, I think you should think about this. In any case, as you already know that I have also put forward a proposal to talk about an information campaign, we will have an opportunity. About Ararteko's report, it's true, we'll have time to talk about it, and there we'll get a lot of juice out of it. What I do believe, from the experience I have, is that accompanying people, in one territory or another, reality is different. We want to recognize it more or less, the reality is different. And I'm also surprised to note a little bit of rejection of the involvement of some agents. While I am glad that you name the participation of other institutions in this reflection that we are going to have with the Ararteko, I too would like us to give you the opportunity – I do not have a magic solution or a project to be able to do so right now, but if you want to sit down and we do it – to listen to the citizens who are the users, the people who benefit from the right, because we never stop to listen to it. I think it is from them that we would have enough to learn, because I think it is they who know whether or not they can exercise the right. I personally bet on the presentation as a way of dialogue, because the truth is that I hope we don't encounter a lot of complaints, either administratively or judicially, about subjective law. I hope you don't give up that reality, of course. I agree with what Mrs Kortajarena has said, because perhaps from here things look different. I have not yet removed the veil of the front line social work, and I hope it will not go away in these four years, and I do have the feeling that, say what you say, this is like the impressionist paintings, which from afar look precious, but when you approach sometimes only look spots. Let's hope we can shape all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u106	Yes, very short. Well, Mrs. Kotja's, I admit it, and I have mentioned in my first Intervention that there are privations in this matter, and the report of the Arrera shows themselves there. But if we read the report of the interrogative, and read the recommendations, I have not seen them, and I have read well the proposition of the composition of a François poncia. I didn't see it. Again, I have seen that every institution, and especially the townhouses, require sufficient means to develop its jurisdiction. I have seen him here, in recommendations, in recommendations made by the Ardala. So I think we have to make the debates that we have to make here for the solutions. And that's why I first mentioned a proposition about the Act of Apologies, a proposition introduced by the Popular Party. And I think that there's a remarkable opportunity for both the Podemos and the EH gathered together to help this proposal. We therefore recognize that there may be deficiencies in the development of the Social Services Act, but the fundamental deficiency and the fundamental deficit in the implementation of the portfolio of services and services regulated in the corresponding decree, above all, and taking into account Ararteko's own findings and recommendations, comes from the lack of funding that these institutions have to ensure adequate coverage of these services and services. In the end they give it, but at the cost of putting money, and taking it away many times from other issues. Therefore, if we want to have quality social services and that subjective rights can be guaranteed, which, as I say, are recognised in the law itself, there is even the possibility of going to court once the deadline that has been said here, of 26 December 2016, we are going to solve the root problem, Mrs Guanche. When you told me real debates, yes, we are going to bring into this House real debates, but it is that the solution to the financing of social services and the financing of the resources needed by the parliaments and municipalities, which have to make a financial outlay to guarantee precisely the services and services that are provided in the catalogue of services and services and in the map of social services, and those that are set out in the Social Services Act itself of 2015, passes by providing these institutions financially enough so that they can meet these needs. That is why I was telling you that a way to give a solution, and a root solution, to the initiative or problems that you have raised here today in relation to the services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, is therefore the Law on Contributions. We then have the debate! I'll follow them carefully. The EH Bildu Group has no amendment... You do have an amendment, barkatu. Bai, Badaukazue, but you are also talking about guaranteeing the financing of social services. Therefore, the way to ensure social services is to have more resources for the parliaments and municipalities. The Podemos Group has no amendment; therefore, let us hope that you will vote in favour of the People's Party initiative, which is the solution to the problem that you have raised with us today in relation to providing adequate coverage and funding for social services. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u107	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u108	Mrs Kortajarena, you have pointed out that you have presented this presentation because you wanted to participate in consensus, etc., and yet you have presented this initiative but you have not raised a telephone or sent an email. At least neither I nor my group, in this initiative, zero. With this, when someone tries to find a consensus, the least thing is to ask another group what it thinks or what position it will have on the issue that arises! And your intention can be very commendable, but we don't share it. I have already stated in my first speech that we do not agree with the creation of the paper, and I have explained to you all the reasons, and I have emphasized that you could have raised it when the decree was made, which you supported. And you supported the Municipal Law. And now they come with the creation of the paper. We believe that this presentation is not necessary right now, and we also have the right to believe it. Mrs Guanche, that we do not think it necessary to create the paper does not mean that we do not worry about the proper development of the Basque Social Services System. You in your first speech said, "It's that if you don't support me, it's that you don't care, or you don't believe in it." No, no! It's just not like that! We may not agree or see that the creation of the paper is appropriate, and we will already find ourselves in other initiatives, as I find myself in the initiatives, when I think we can meet, with other colleagues in your parliamentary group. And, Mrs. Guanche, no nerves, and I reject the zero dialogue. I am open to dialogue when I consider that I have to dialogue, and to try to approach and seek transactions and to seek agreements when I consider it relevant. But, of course, if there is something that I do not think is appropriate, I also have my perfect right to put it forward and not to agree on what I or my group consider to be inappropriate. And that is what we have done, and that is why we are going to vote against the compromise amendment that the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin Podemos group have tabled in this initiative. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u109	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u110	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. President. We have often said that we are ready for the improvement of things and the conversation, and that is how we will continue in the same manner, but what you require in action is to establish this power in order to ensure the subjective rights of access to social services, and we do not see it, because the subjective right is guaranteed to the law. Another thing is, how this is developed, or how far we can come to, with the bag, and what difference there is in it, and this dispute about the intermediary, which has been here made. Just a couple of things: I'm glad of your attitude, your personal attitude, that attitude towards the law, and that it's been that way since the first moment, and that you have no difficulty in confessing it. I'm glad, but I haven't been talking to you like that of Myria Kotja, but as a member of the EH Collector, and it's true that the WRRIBRA (EAb) didn't give him a negative, not you, not the Basque Alcharity, but the five members of the left wing, and the Archabarus's abs abstice. That's how it was. Yes or no? That's how it was. And the second thing about the intermediary, yes. Mrs. Guanche, you mentioned the technique, and a lot of people participated in this copy of the Arrar. Yes, we'd like to know that it's a bit related to the previous point that they represent themselves or speak for themselves, in the name of the organizations they work for, or are their personal attitudes. Eta azkenik, of course we are in favour of the social services system and we are ready to talk and dialogue, and try to improve what is needed, but we do not see the need for a presentation to guarantee subjective law, because it is already sufficiently guaranteed, both in law and in development legislation. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u112	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, in the Euska Autonomy of Esquiria, to guarantee the rights of domestic workers. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Miss Arana, the representative of Potemus together, has the word, in order to present and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Ladies and gentlemen, good ladies and gentlemen. There are many people who think that domestic workers are superwomen, but I would say that, rather than being, more than that, what they are are the slaves of the 21st century. Because who understands that they endure the working days they endure, sometimes without leaving the house in which they work all day, without weekly rest, with an endless number of tasks that, as time passes, are always increasing in an imposed way and without the capacity to negotiate? Who, ladies and gentlemen, would be willing to suffer without the possibility of a situation of contempt, ill-treatment, etc., and with such precarious working conditions that sometimes they do not seem to be workers but servants? The legislation protects them very little, it protects them less than the rest of the working people, because, in fact, it does not consider them to be workers for use. This is a reflection more than being a woman and everything that relates to us means social, labor and legally. The Special Homeworkers' Regime is a regime of special precariousness, and the worst part is that there is no intention of changing it. They are workers who to be controlled by Lanbide there is no glue, but to carry out the work inspections necessary to evaluate both the complaints they make and the working conditions of these women there is no place, because apparently the privacy of the employers' homes is violated. Because the dignity and rights of women workers, mostly immigrant women, do not seem to matter to anyone. According to the EPA in the third quarter of 2016, 614,000 female domestic workers are employed in the State; 90 per cent of them are women, and 54 per cent are migrant women. 30 per cent of persons employed in the domestic sector in the State are not affiliated with Social Security, according to data from the International Labour Organization, and there are thousands of women workers who, as precarious, do not even earn to declare their employment, since we bear the most precarious responsibility for paying Social Security. This is a twofold problem: that which affects the collective, the contribution as a basis for collective improvement of the conditions of the people (contribution to social security), and that which affects the individual employees, who, since they are not regularized, do not exist or have rights like other workers. Officially, taking into account only those discharged from social security, the number of domestic jobs in Euskadi is around 33,000, of which 14,000 (almost half) are migrant women. Here too, it is a type of employment that is clearly feminized, precarious and invisible. However, these data are only the tip of the iceberg. It is estimated that there are almost as many unregulated domestic workers, without social protection, as there are, of whom the number of women migrated greatly. Emakunde published in 2015 a research work on the multiple discrimination of immigrant women working in domestic services and care in the Basque Autonomous Community. In this study, 42% of migrant women, especially Latin American women, work in domestic and care services, and a third of them suffer unwanted working conditions from either of us: uncompromising working days, unworthy wages that cause many of them to be unable to meet their most basic needs. And without wanting to bore us with data, today the companions of the Association of Homeworkers have presented us with their statistics, and these data can be much lower than reality, such as the fact that, although the Employment Act provides for a maximum of sixty hours per week, the reality is that more than 75% of inmates work more than sixty hours per week, and about 20% of workers, both internal and external, do not have a vacation. This is what I, ladies and gentlemen, call slavery. As I said, home work involves a type of job mainly performed by women, and, of course, they perform a type of job in the private, hidden and therefore undervalued sphere, based mainly on precariousness and invisibility. Their working conditions are terrible, due to the loneliness, type of tasks and lack of institutional support they receive, which implies very little capacity to negotiate their working conditions and lack of knowledge about their rights, which leads them to endure impossible hours, little definition of their tasks, the multiplicity of their tasks and the imposition of others. And we do this so that the care needs of our society are largely resolved. Most domestic workers are engaged in caring for older persons, and despite having such important things in their hands, we make many of them suffer weekly days of more than sixty hours, some even do not have the weekly hours of rest to which they are entitled by law, and many others do not have ten hours of rest between work and day. From Elkarrekin We believe that the destitution of women workers, and in particular that of women working as domestic workers, is a priority, since we believe that the sharing of care and employment is indispensable. We understand as a fundamental premise that the employment of domestic workers must be and be in the general regime, and with the same protection as the rest of the workers. We also understand that the invisibility and devaluation of domestic and care work responds to a socio-occupational model that does not conform to what we defend in Elkarrekin Podemos; a model the current one which corresponds above all to the heteropatriarchal system that we fight to eradicate, which is the basis and cause of the abuses of all kinds that we women suffer every day. What we are presenting today in this House are a series of demands from the collective, specifically from the Association of Homeworkers, which we believe are necessary to start looking for measures to change the working conditions of these women. However, we understand that perhaps it is better to pick up the demands in order, and that is why we have brought them together to start with a few first steps. Because we believe that it is essential, firstly, to carry out studies within a short period of time, not exceeding nine months, which diagnose the situation of women domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community, as well as the needs they cover, taking into account in the study both the employer and the worker. And another study through Osalan, and in coordination with all the areas and departments of the Basque Government involved in this matter, to define as clearly as possible the dimension of the problem and to compile all the steps taken so far by the different institutions, and to propose measures to be implemented. Finally, and given that it is a matter of justice and because it is recognized by international legislation, it is essential to urge the Government to ratify International Labour Organization Convention 189 and Recommendation 201 on decent work for domestic workers, because it is our duty to recognize women workers in all their dimensions and, therefore, to ensure that their conditions are adapted to those of other workers. This claim, which entails equalizing the rights of other workers with regard to benefits and compensation, implies that they are informed of the terms and conditions of work, their wages and their rests; that they are protected against discrimination, that they are guaranteed decent living conditions, and that they have access to the mechanisms of labour complaints. This is a demand that, as I have already said, is born out of the platforms and associations of domestic workers and to which all Parliament should support. It is a first step that most of this House today supports this bill. Because this is not to draw political profit, but to improve the living conditions of an essential part of Basque citizenship. This will respect the dignity of all people, recognize the enormous and incalculable importance of care and put it in value, as socially and legally deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u114	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. This is a debate that is not new, which has already been held more often in this Parliament. It was maintained, for example, in 2010, when a study on female domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community was called for, which was carried out in 2011. And already in that debate we all recognized the discrimination to which people working in the home were often subjected, and that we all had to act precisely to put an end to these discriminations, to improve their employment situation and their social protection, and that, first of all, we had to make a precise diagnosis of that situation. According to this study, around 15% of Basque households have an employee or a household employee at home, but to this must be added those households, as has been said here, which have dependent people, who are often also being cared for by a household worker. And so, in 2013 the Bizkaia Homeworkers' Association also exposed this situation when they appeared in this Parliament. According to the same study, from six years ago, there would be 99,000 female domestic workers in Euskadi, and it would be necessary to distinguish, as they said, two situations: when the service is provided through a company, in which case we would be faced with an ordinary employment relationship between the company and the worker, or directly, in a special employment relationship of the service in the family home. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to get back to know – and now in more detail and with much more current data – exactly in what situation the collective is currently in, to carry out a new study that tells us how many people are working in Basque homes today, and in which of the two relationships to which I have referred are found. Because in the statistics of the Bizkaia Home Workers' Association itself, which does have a website where you can report on a lot of issues, it is reported that social security contributions have been increased by eight points and that they have also evolved in breaks, but that in other issues this progress has not been such, but quite the opposite. And it must also be borne in mind that, as I say, despite the fact that this website is very good and contains many statistics, it is true that they are limited to people who have come to the association, and that, therefore, it is not possible to know the whole collective in its breadth. We therefore felt it necessary that point 1 of the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative, to carry out this diagnosis, because it is a previous step towards then designing that plan of action that responds to the needs and questions that have been raised in this House, that are raised or have raised some political groups, that are collected, as I say, on that website, and those that may arise as the study goes on. As we say, that was also point 1 of the amendment that we were presenting, and that is point 1 of the compromise amendment, which I say from now on that I am going to ask for the vote... if it is possible to vote on it by points, and then I will explain why. Another of the issues that had been raised and also raised in the original initiative, and that had been raised in the various appearances, was that there was an intermediation by Lanbide, that Lanbide dealt with and that he was a focal point in domestic employment. It is true, as the counselor (at that time Mr.Aburto) said, that Lanbide has to be the instrument of intermediation, but this does not have to be an affirmation that one makes, because it goes his way, because this is reflected in Lanbide's own definition of objectives, but it has to be a reality. And, without wishing to insist here on the criticisms we have made to Lanbide on other occasions, the truth is that neither in this aspect – and perhaps less than in any other – Lanbide is a reference of intermediation precisely. That is why we also called for Lanbide to intervene in domestic service, and for her to disseminate her rights and obligations to employers and to domestic workers. And the compromise amendment that has finally been tabled does not contain any of this. And we also called for measures to help the economy flourish in the domestic sector. It is true that it was part of our amendment and it appeared in point 4 of an amendment that was first presented to us, but it was not finally the one that was tabled. And measures should be taken because, according to the association's own data, a third of the employment in family homes is still in a immersive economy in some hours. The collective also requested through various channels that the Labour Inspectorate ensure compliance with working conditions, both when done directly and when done through a placement agency. And for that we do have competence in the Basque Government. The Basque Government is responsible for monitoring compliance with labour relations. Precisely the other day the councilwoman insisted on this in her appearance, and also the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies, in connection with a debate on this subject, pointed out that what was needed was greater inspection. Well, without precedent, I subscribe to the words of the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party: this is the Basque Government's responsibility. After it's done, it's inspected. In the previous compromise amendment, at one point, precisely in point 3, this was raised, but it has now disappeared. In that draft it appeared, but not now. Osalan also has much to say and much to do about the work of domestic workers, because there are risks of all kinds in domestic work, and Osalan has among his functions precisely to promote occupational health, risk prevention, and to inform workers and businesses. It can therefore inform both employers and women workers of working conditions, because, as stated in the 2011 Decree, the employer is obliged to ensure that work is carried out in the proper conditions of safety and health, for which it must take effective measures. It is also reflected in point 5 of the previous amendment, and we agree with it, and also here. With regard to point 2 of the compromise amendment, we shall abstain. We had proposed an alternative wording, which was to sign that ILO convention when possible and when it did not conflict with State legislation. It should be noted that this convention has only been ratified by twenty-two of the 185 countries that form the International Labour Organization, of which only six belong to the European Union. Many of the requirements contained in that convention 189 and Recommendation 201 are already included in Spanish legislation. If it has not been ratified so far, it is because it is intended to be done when all the recommendations subscribed to are compatible with our legal system and are all beneficial to women workers. As I said, we had asked to change that point to another point that would say what I am saying to you, that when that was possible, but it has not been admitted, and we will therefore abstain at that point. Because, as evidenced by the Association of Homeworkers of Bizkaia itself, when the convention was adopted in June 2011 Spanish legislation was below the requirements of that convention, but Law 27/2011 of 1 August on the updating, adaptation and modernization of social security proceeded to the integration into the General Social Security Regime of the Special Regime of Home Workers. Similarly, from 2019 onwards, the general social security rules on filiation, high and social security contributions will apply. With the approval of Royal Decree 1620/2011 of 14 November, the relationship of domestic employment was regulated, and many of the issues that appeared in the convention were raised. So the issue is not the ratification of the convention itself, because, as I say, many of the rights contained in it are already recognized in our legislation. It is a question of being able to realize these rights, of putting in place precise measures – and many of them depend on this government, on the Basque Government – so that these rights are not left on wet paper. We therefore, as I say, are calling for a point vote. We shall vote in favour of point 1 and point 3, and we shall abstain on point 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u116	Thank you, Miss Llanos. From EH, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u117	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. It's been almost six years since my last study in Euskal Autonomia in Erria had been applied to the household's work conditions and the latest exams about the present. You've mentioned a lot of data that you've taken. At the time, almost 90,000 workers were built up, and they worked for 105,500 units. A high majority of these workers, 95%, are formed by women. What a coincidence, huh? This study in 2011 said that "se habla de la mejora de las mujeres en el ámbito familyir." They were not allowed to determine what women they speak of. Of course, we haven't studied the condition in which the conditions of those who work at home are familiar. Yes, but the case of families who hire them, so let's go to the facts. They do domestic work when they don't have 7% of women's employees. But when they've hired him, he's doing 42% of his homework. When the two men or the house do these jobs with the worker or without, the change is not so obvious and does not reach 20%. By the way, were the families considered as homosexuals or monomarenals or monoparents in this investigation? It says "Ambos," and I hesitated. Shall we not place the welfare of some women upon the conditions of working of others? It is evident that we shall not lay the fault on the shoulders of those who contract it, upon the condition of precorration which the system itself allows to organize and authorize. For it is very cheap and interesting to the system itself that the burden of the services which it ought to perform is laid upon the shoulders and pockets of individuals. When I'm on the system, of course, I don't pretend to be a ghost that can't be seen or touched, here in the government, in the ratio of reductions, or the state of the centers of elderly people. While we're talking of this, we want to send our peaceful support and support to the workers of the age who are working on long and hard strikes in Biscay. It's difficult, but you've got the protection of users, families, and society. A big kiss. We will cross these four walls from the street and bring their voices and petitions to the meeting of the 9th of this month, so that they may be heard and discussed. Yes, this crowd has a deep problem with care. As soon as we entered the work-world, we did not reflect what would happen with the care of the watch. Of course I don't make this up to women, not at all, but they were invisible, where, in the way, we went on without deciding who would develop them like the rest of the world, and, of course, it's because we don't appreciate them and we're still uncaring them. More than one will tell me that he stays in his personal state and in the privacy of the house, but no: On the one hand, I reply that personality is political, and that the controversy about the care-in-chiefs which maintain society is but a short time ago. "The socially guaranteed process is capital accumulation. This inhibits collective responsibility in the maintenance of life, and, even more, establishes a constant threat to life, which ends up being poorly resolved in feminized and invisible spheres." Amaia Pérez Orozco ikerlari feministak bear on which azierazten two moduan, arazoren konponketa space guztiz ikusezin eta prekarizatura was a dadza daukagun weretzun bakarra. It's also the responsibility of public institutions to look after people. Every man has a right to be guarded, to determine what we want to look after, and we need strong public services to do it. We need a structure that will offer worthy public services to improve the quality of life, to share the custody, as we have seen before, and, as far as we could see, to raise worthy employments. It's necessary to acknowledge social value to homework and care work. We have the real social debt of paying bank debt to women for answering historically to the dependence and care of people. Let's talk about the little data we've got. The domestic workers' sector is a collective mass of people who work in very different professions. These men are employed in several services which lead from home-cleaning and maintenance to the care of children and masters, and which are often obliged to cultivate different employments. Now domestic washings are the best that are paid (IV. vii.31.) and least of all those who are concerned with independent persons (for 5,51 is the present). Most of the workers are working on these latest jobs, according to the data of the House Staff, about 55 percent. In their words, it shows that we are repairing the business of society with our domestic workmen. The administration ought to take care of the needs of these people, but as the modern pattern becomes cheaper, it does not make any movement to unlock this situation. If we listen to the workers' societies in the house, as Mrs. Llanos has done, we'll find out that there are absolutely logical and basic requests. You brought data, you and Ms. Arana. They're asking to be a state of unemployment, to confess laboring, and the latter was included in the law of 2011, but they're not yet active conditions to make it work. Because we know that even as Mrs. Llanos has remarked, the paper can get a lot of paper, but if we don't start the economic and administrative conditions of developing it, it's no use at all. Today, the House Services Association has released statistics of people who come to their own teams and to the Asanblands. Ms. Arana has informed us that in addition to giving us some of the data which strengthens these problems, I wanted to give you a couple of facts which have already been expressed, and I'd like to add that some of them have already been stated, and that during over 60 hours, the majority of the workers are working, and I'd like to remark that in this 61-70-hour ratio the 21s of workers are working at the rate between 71-80 hours, 22% of the rate, and that the 81-90 hours is still 14%. I think there are disturbing, terrible, and terrible data. And they have given much more data, and we must give thanks to the community for the work it does; and as we said before, even because they take upon themselves the work which might perhaps be public satisfaction. We have here, in the former legislation, several resolutions and agreements in the matter; and we shall have so many other rights and requests in the course of this legislation. While we are speaking of this, the function of Osalan's house was agreed to make a health manual in the legislation which has passed, and the correction of the medium, the third point, demands that it should continue and continue to penetrate. This is the time when all this invisibility is laid upon the table, and that is what the data is necessary to be identified with the state of the workers, the state of the contractors, the families, but we must not forget, as Perez of the Orodec says, that we ought not to speak of domestic workers; As for the rest, we need to talk about domestic jobs, watch jobs, "No de vulnancieración de de derechos y pilesor de una organanción de cuidados injusta, que esta en base de unarroro de unalrollo de vara de radicalate des escaturi un libero la limosa manchas ink."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u119	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. We will discuss at this sixth point in plenary the non-legislative proposal of the Elkarrekin Group We can on measures to guarantee the rights of domestic workers of the Basque Autonomous Community. Many of the points raised today in the compromise amendment which is to be discussed today, and which are expected to be adopted, in this plenary reflect the demands of the workers concerned, and I was able to get to know them first-hand at the round tables to which my group was invited on 17 and 20 November in Bilbao, specifically to talk about all this problem. And I am pleased to have been able to arrive with the Basque Nationalist group, the EH Bildu group and the Podemos group to this transactional, because I think it was worth it. For years, domestic and caregiver work has been undervalued, giving greater value to productive work, and they have been recognized with lower wages and worse working conditions. Today the feminization of domestic work in this sector is recognized, providing services often without contracts, without timetables, and, however, they do a fundamental job so that our current society can be organized. The regulation began in August 1985, with a decree regulating the employment status of female domestic workers as a special social security scheme. And the most important change occurred with Royal Decree 1620 of November 2011, which greatly improved the working conditions existing to date and which had been in force for three decades. And then a reform was carried out that came into effect in April 2013, which has not resolved the situation but, in my view, has complicated it. Spain is one of the few countries that has not ratified ILO Convention 189, adopted on 16 June 2011, together with ILO Resolution 201, despite the fact that it has already been six years. The Turin group is promoting the ratification of the convention to improve existing legislation in the household sector. In general, Convention 189 recognizes domestic work as any other work, and ensures that domestic workers are treated on an equal footing with other workers in each country. But for these rules to be mandatory in the various countries, governments must ratify the convention. And, as I said, Spain has not yet done so, to subsequently transpose it into our regulations. I am surprised that the Group of the European People's Party did not wish to sign the compromise amendment that we signed today, just because it reflects the requirement that the Spanish Government ratify the Convention, after six years. Legislation is made compatible by amending, once the conventions have been ratified, our legislation. And a very clear example was, in the field of work, what happened with the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks: we had a very different regulation, and when we ratified the relevant convention, all regulations and subsequent amendments were made to adapt it to what was marked by the ratified convention. That's always the way it is. I think it is a cry that the workers concerned demand, although not so much the employers, as it is logical, but that it is necessary to cut as soon as possible and deal with it as soon as possible. There is also a need to differentiate domestic work from the work of professional caregivers, i.e. dependent people, who have been confused in recent years. The initiative we are discussing today includes important measures to correct this situation. And the compromise amendment states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to carry out a diagnosis of the situation of women domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community, including both workers and employers, and a nine-month period is set for carrying out this diagnosis. The Government of the State is also urged to ratify ILO Convention 189 and Recommendation 201 on decent work for domestic workers and its subsequent transposition into State law. It is also important that, from Osalan, coordinating with all the areas and departments of the Basque Government involved in this matter, a study be drawn up that defines as clearly as possible the full dimension of the problem, compiles the steps that have been taken to date by the different institutions, and sets out the measures to be implemented. Reference is also made to the insistence on the Government of the State because, prior to the initiative we are discussing today, an initiative had also been registered concerning the exclusion of domestic staff from benefits to benefit from a leave of absence or a reduction in working hours for care work, and it had already included, in a compromise amendment, a reference to the need to ratify that Convention 189. That is why the expression "is insisted upon", although in the end this initiative, which was registered after the one I have pointed out, has finally entered this plenary before it. But, since we attached particular value to this need for ratification in order to achieve that effective equality in the recognition of the rights of domestic workers, we considered it necessary that it be included in the amendment to the whole of which we are submitting and which is reflected in the compromise amendment which we are signing today. I thank, of course, all the groups for their efforts to reach the consensus that we have reached today. Because I believe that this is good for the interests of the workers concerned and that, as I said earlier, it captures the demands and demands, much of the demands and demands posed to us by the workers and associations in the sector. And it's also important, I also attach special importance to the need to make that diagnosis, so that it puts us in the context in which we move. And then, through the study of the compromise amendment that Osalan will make, it is possible to determine what measures, all the measures that need to be taken in order to be able to move forward with respect for the rights of domestic workers. But it is also important, as I have already indicated, to ratify ILO Convention 189 and Recommendation 201. That is why my group wanted this point to be maintained precisely, because I believe that after six years it is time for it to be ratified, and then, once ratified, for it to be transposed into our rules. And it is no problem, Mrs Llanos, for our part, on the part of my group, to vote on points when the time comes for the vote. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u120	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u121	Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. We are discussing another proposition, as described by Podemos, in order to ensure the rights of the Basque domestic workers. If I had to promote the work of the domestic workers through history, I would use two adjectives: Infiltrated and invisible. When other jobs are put together, there is no doubt about their confession. It's not the same with houseworkers: We must appreciate it a great deal to acknowledge the important contribution to the economy. Details of this very important contribution that is made not only in the material sphere of the home, but also in the care of children, elderly people, people with functional diversity... In many cases undervalued, invisible, and particularly vulnerable to discrimination with regard to employment and working conditions. The shared goal we see here today is undoubtedly to increase that assessment, that visibility, that occupational safety and health. The original initiative had a ten-point operative text pursuing that goal, without any doubt. In my view, in the text that has been adopted, which contains only three points, it may seem that, in order to reach an agreement between the four signatory parliamentary groups, we have gone to a minimum text. And it is my intention in this debate, in addition to maintaining the good tone that is being maintained, to provide the detail that this possible image that could be had is not real. It is a text that we have signed very carefully: knowledge of the issue, actions taken, measures to be implemented, and the very important reference to the International Labour Organization convention. Knowledge of the issue, diagnosis. Undoubtedly, the Administration's contribution was this necessary diagnosis is essential, and it is reflected in the text that was inserted in point 1 of that text. The contribution and participation of other actors has also been mentioned in the first part of this point 3 of the text. The statistics of the Association of Homeworkers have been evaluated here, certainly an excellent job, as we recognized in the Employment Commission on April 19, 2016, when they visited us and attended. The actions carried out. There is a clear recognition of the actions taken by the Basque Government. It is said in the second part of point 3 that Osalan compiles the steps that have been taken to date. Indeed, they have been taking steps. In this development, which has undoubtedly had to be recognized that, in addition to margins of improvement, there are certain difficulties, and that they are not excuses from the Basque Government. There is no doubt that a technical difficulty, to call it that, would be the lack of some competences in our Autonomous Community. Another difficulty, which is not expressed as an excuse, is what Mrs Arana has said, respect for family privacy. And we can see it as a problem in all legal systems. In the most advanced legal systems on this issue, in the legal systems of these countries we see that there is also this difficulty. The measures to be implemented. It is proposed in point 3 to Osalan that, in addition to carrying out diagnostic questions, analysis of actions carried out, propose measures, propose measures to be applied. An essential issue. I also wanted to make a comment on parliamentary mandates, because they appeared in one of the texts, they are also seen in Mrs Arana's original initiative, and also in our amendment; however, they do not appear in the text we have had. Well, it's a matter... it's not really two parliamentary mandates, it's one. The closest, that of the nearest date, 2014, is a mandate that comes in a motion for a resolution, in a full monograph, which refers to the 2011 mandate. Anyway, they're quiet. We understand that these are mandates that are in force and continue to be pursued. It is not our intention, and I suppose none of the signatories, to disappear those mandates. For making that mention exclusively. Where I would like to go a little further in detail is in the reference to Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization, made in our amendment and also, indeed, commented on in the appearance of the Association of Homeworkers. Not only Convention 189, but Recommendation 201. This detail, Mrs. Arana, is a reflection that we care about. We care about legislation and we care about the basis, the firm foundation on which further policy development is established. That is why we urge the Government of the State to ratify it. Yeah, I'd like to make a little point. What is International Labour Organization Convention 189? It is a convention that develops, in the field of women domestic workers, the declaration of the International Labour Organization which reflects the fundamental principles and rights at work. It seeks to respect and promote the principles and rights in four categories: freedom of association, freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of compulsory forced labour; the abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in employment. There is no doubt that this is shared. I'd like to give you two details about the convention itself. One referred to in Article 6, which contains, as a summary, what is the convention itself for the development of the declaration. Article 6 addresses the need to ensure that women domestic workers, like other workers, have fair and decent conditions of employment. Article 13 contains the right to a safe and healthy working environment, and proposes effective measures to ensure safety and health at work for this group. Mrs Llanos, you have convinced us with all your legal arguments. In short, what you are telling us, with all that legal argument so well worked out, is that what the convention says is actually collected. Then I would ask you a question: what is the problem in ratifying this convention by the State? In short, a text that pursues the original objective of the original initiative, but on a solid and perhaps longer-range basis in the future. In my view, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, a good basic agreement. As Mrs Llanos has asked, we would have no inconvenience in voting for points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u122	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u123	Well, I don't think we have to say much more about everything we've talked about here, because you can't say any clearer, although all we can do is say it louder, so that once and for all you listen. I would like to remind you that this is a first step, but that there will then come other initiatives that I hope both the PNV and PSOE parliamentary groups will continue to support us, because Mrs Etxebarrieta and the EH Bildu parliamentary group will, I suppose, support them. Mrs Llanos, you have said that all this we are discussing is not new, and I have not been in this House very long and I hear it all the time! I think it would be good for the issues that are being discussed here to be resolved. And if we give them solutions and they are coherent solutions, and they are really made for citizens, it is very likely that we will not have to discuss them again in this House. I would like to end this legislature without having to bring this debate back here, and that women domestic workers have decent working conditions. Mrs Llanos (I am still with you, you have been touched today), says signing the International Labour Organization Convention when possible under state law. I remind you that you have the ability to make them compatible. My question is why they don't. Which of the recommendations are not recommended for women workers? I would also like you to answer that question. You, as a party that has the capacity to change this regulation and recognize normalized access – which I don't think these women are asking for anything extraordinary – as I say, to the status of workers according to the general regime, why don't you get to work? They can't keep apologizing for inaction. Another thing. He also said that he would have liked to change some point in the non-law proposal. I remind you that Elkarrekin Podemos has introduced you; that whenever you want you can call me, again to propose another initiative, and so we comment between the two, better than talking to other political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u125	Thank you again, Madam President. Mrs. Arana, I don't mind anything about me. What's more, I love to argue. I'll explain something to you. It is usually the author of the initiative, when amendments are submitted to it, who usually talks to the amending groups to see if it is possible to reach agreement. That is what Mr Becerra and I did, and you see that in the previous plenary session last week we reached an agreement. Moreover, we would have reached a much more ambitious agreement than the one on this initiative. Much more ambitious. Because you in your original initiative do what you do is pick up point by point – with which in many of those issues we agree – the proposals made by the association, right? Almost all but one, which leads it to another separate initiative, which is the issue of conciliation, that they are excluded from aid under the conciliation aid decree. And you have fallen – and then I will refer to the Socialist Party – in what the PSE wanted, which is to buzz the Spanish government. Its great objective is, from here, to oppose the Government of Spain. And that is why, in his speech, basically, it is the ILO that has been mentioned. But if you read... And when I say it's not new, I don't say it because we can't discuss it again. Whenever it's necessary! But it is precisely because it has not been resolved that we have to discuss it again. So, it has to be brought back here because it hasn't been solved. And it is true that many of the questions that have been raised in the committees in which the Association of Homeworkers has appeared twice, many had nothing to do with the ILO (which I am now going to explain to you what we proposed), but with measures that can be done here, in this Basque Government: that they were referring to Lanbide and his work of brokering, that he has to do and does not do; that they were referring to the inspection of work, of working conditions... Not that of Social Security, which is of the State, not: of working conditions, which is the responsibility of this Government and, however, is not being done. They were referring to Osalan, to investigate whether the prevention of occupational risks is being carried out, which is not being done and is also our competence... And all these have been blurred in this amendment, which is true that it is a first step, especially with regard to point 1, which we were also bringing in, which is to make a diagnosis of the situation, but which, of course, goes much less than its original initiative was. But when we were proposed a compromise amendment, it was also more ambitious. There were some points that we had proposed in our amendment, such as putting in place measures to get out the submerged economy, which in many cases continues to exist in this collective, so that Lanbide would take care of this, so that the Labour Inspectorate would act... And yet, as we did not sign the amendment on the subject of the convention, then they are already withdrawn. That I do not understand either, because in the amendment that Mr Becerra and I signed the other day, although not signed by EH Bildu, we did incorporate a point that at the time had proposed EH Bildu because we considered it appropriate. That I do not sign does not mean that, if those points were considered good, they would not have remained. Because I already said that, even if I did not sign the amendment, the only point on which I was going to abstain was the second, that in all the others I was going to vote yes. Then what I do not know is whether they did not want to place more obligations on the Basque Government, which could have been put on. And what we have proposed, which we have done so, is: "We urge to continue working with the rest of the European Union, on the basis of ILO Convention 189, with the aim of ratifying it as soon as possible and with the consensus of all those involved". Because, for example, I will tell you that, in the personal sphere of application, our legislation excludes the special employment relationship of domestic work when the employer is not a holder of the family home, but is a legal person, such as a municipality, a temporary work enterprise or another entity; that in that case it is a normal relationship, an ordinary relationship, and in that case the legal regime is more favourable to the worker. If the convention is ratified, of course, this is excluded. Not to mention the application of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, which, as has been said here, is difficult precisely because it is carried out in the family environment. And that's not just what we say; that's what Mr. Aborto said in one of his responses to that. And finally, indeed here, if you read the transcript of Mrs Sánchez's speeches, and less of Mr Aiartza, but above all of Mrs Sánchez's, it seems that as soon as the agreement is ratified everything will come from her, and what she does not say is that here, in the government to which the Socialist Party of Euskadi is now part, there are many things that can be done and many issues demanded by the Workers' Association and by the domestic workers themselves. And what is at stake here is not to oppose the Madrid government, not to be here all day saying that the blame for everything is on the government, that we already see that you have also joined that complaining attitude maintained by the Basque Nationalist Party in the previous parliamentary term, and that there are many things to do here. And among others – they have already told you –, depending exclusively on the Basque Government, the removal of the exclusion of female domestic workers from leave and reduced hours of care benefits, and the simplification of application procedures. That's easy. Do so, and we do not have to discuss that amendment here. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u126	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Collect EH. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u127	Thank you. Miss Llanos, I shall use the same term you have used before: "Sine que sirva de precedente," I quite agree with the things you've said. We, too, say it is a first step since we have done the work before, and we must take them to follow the steps; but we have a great deal to do here, and I think we must bring them here in the way which you proposed and Mrs. Arana proposed to go on with us, and so on with so many other different enterprises, that it may also be done, but I do not know where to look, and I think it is important to say so. I don't think this is a minimum agreement or a future agreement. We think it's important that things should be paused for such an ambitious road, and that in this hetereropathical society it requires a radical change, which has too great or very great a connection with all of it. And as you said before, Ms. Arana, this is no way to make a ransom, it's a way to improve people's lives and lives, and I'd add to it that there's a way to improve the health of the public. Besides, I'm the only one who can tell you that we don't have any trouble with voting at all, and that, well, we're going to add, about the speech Mrs. Sánchez has done, as she has very well remarked, that what we're asking for as a worker is a disgrace. that you have to ask for such things in a year, hasn't it? But, well, let's hope it won't be in this legislation... Let's go on again the next time, as we said the other day, "We'll go on this way, won't we?" Let us hope, then, that we begin to make sure steps or to continue. And Mr. Arracise has well stated that this is an infragal and invisible profession, and we need a diagnosis to do so. And I'd add, too, that the government, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! I think we have the ability and the opportunity to get to the agreements, and I'd like to finish it just because they're doing a lot of work, with the words of a member of the House of the House Services we've been talking about. The flower was said by the year: "How could we take care of him without his housework? "I don't know. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u129	Well, Mrs Llanos I have to point out that the third point, concerning the Labour Inspectorate, was removed from the final compromise amendment – which was in the first amendment we tabled together with the Basque Nationalist Party – at the request of Podemos, but it is that all groups did not see any greater problem in which it was removed. And that does not mean that this prevents anything from being done, but that, if read, at that third point it was indicated that the Labour Inspectorate "continues with its activity of controlling the placement services and brokerage agencies", according to the parliamentary mandates of 2011 and 2014. And it's just that it's being done, and, like it's being done, it's going to keep doing, and nothing was happening because that point would be removed. And it was also interlinked, and it also comes out in the initiative, that in my first intervention, also interlinked with domestic workers, was that theme. Nor was there any greater problem in not collecting it in the compromise amendment signed at the end. And then, I don't think it's a minimum agreement, but the opposite. I believe that to carry out this diagnosis of situation in nine months, a serious diagnosis, and that then from Osalan, in collaboration with the departments that are necessary, the entire study that defines the dimension of the problem, is reviewed and compiled all the steps that have been taken by all the institutions, and the whole set of measures that are considered necessary is collected, where there may be information measures, training measures, etc., risk prevention measures, actions of the Labour Inspectorate... There will be collected and collected all the measures deemed necessary, so that, even if the reference to the contribution of your amendment is not included, I am sure that it will take into account in this comprehensive study all the measures that are valued as most necessary, precisely in order to achieve the best results. And, Mrs. Llanos, this isn't about asking for ratification after six years, eh! That I am not talking about six months, I am talking about six years, which was already adopted in June 2011 the 189th Convention. To say that the only thing you want to do is to buzz the Spanish government... so, man, I don't think so, that you fall for yourself. Man, if you're in the government of Spain, who are we going to ask? Then we'll have to ask you! It is not a question of buzzing the People's Party, but if the People's Party continues to rule in Spain, it is the Government of Spain that is responsible for ratifying it, and therefore, if you do not ratify it, we will have to keep asking you. And it's not about any intention to buzz anyone. And I'm surprised, because you often make a lot of reference to Mr. Zapatero, and you remember Mr. Zapatero and he's no longer in the government, because you rule, and you're all day with "The fault has Zapatero, this and the other." And today you are surprised that, because you are in the government, you cannot be told. They're being asked to ratify! Man, who are we going to ask! For, of course, the Government, which it is, the party which is in the Government of Spain. And, therefore, I believe that is clear. And then you've had a mistake in your exhibition. He referred to when employers are municipalities. Man, if we're talking about domestic workers and the employer is a town hall, we're not talking about domestic workers. We're talking about something else. In that case we would not be...; we would be talking about a worker of the general regime, but no longer about a domestic worker. And I would simply like to welcome the compromise amendment that we are going to sign this afternoon, because I believe it is important to achieve that equality, which is already reflected in Convention 189 six years ago, and it is time that it is also reflected in our existing legislation. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u130	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In conclusion, Mr. Arianz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u131	Eserlekutik, eskerrik asko. Just to comment on three specifics. The fact that an agreement is basic does not mean that it is neither an ambitious agreement nor an agreement. It's just, it's a solid foundation. And perhaps it is a much more successful approach than other approaches we have made in this House at other times. A second point related to the objectives, Mrs Llanos. I can assure you that my objective in this debate is not to give the Government of the State. And neither is it taking advantage of this moment to have that whiny attitude you're commenting on. The objective, our objective in this debate, is to increase the assessment and dignity of these workers, their visibility, and their occupational safety and health. And, thirdly, for a question that I ask you, which is always you asking the questions, you haven't answered it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u132	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. As far as I understand, there is no one to vote in point; then the first and the third, and the second on the other. Okay. We'll vote first and third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u133	The first two points were unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u134	So the third point is also accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian People of Euscal, the Law of the Contribution of the Esquimians at Euscal Autonomia Erdi." Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr Dammit's word is represented by the Basque Potula team to present and support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to be brief, since everyone's saying it is. And let's talk about the Law on Contributions, Mr. lehendakari, Law 2/2007, which is going to be about ten years (six years of extension, ten years since its adoption). And I do remember that when that law was passed there were two deputies who opposed it, because they were injured, according to them. And I remember how the matter was arranged with a patch, and at the end that law came here. And of course, if you look at the speeches of the groups that were and that we are there were three groups that coincided in the same thing, that we were the Socialist Party, we, and the abertzale left (that I don't remember what it was called at that time, because you know that every fine time changed acronyms). Another different thing is what everyone then voted for. And I'm saying we agreed on one thing. Then others had their differences for other reasons, but we all agreed on one thing, and Mr. Buen explained it quite well here, which is that for example in Gipuzkoa at that time in the last four years social spending had increased by 44% and yet the parliaments and municipalities had not had more revenue. Well, from those ten years up to here, some things have happened: a Unit Act, the Social Services Portfolio, the Basque City Act, has been passed, which has transferred or handed over to the municipalities some of the responsibility for social emergency aid... And all of this has meant an increase in social spending on municipalities and parliaments. And if all this greater social spending and all these greater rights that make two points, in this very plenary session today afternoon (first point of the afternoon), all the groups were saying and talking about the need to finance that social spending, that all the municipalities and that even Ararteko said that it had to be financed, because here all the groups have to vote something that really does finance that, that is to increase the percentage that parliaments and municipalities must receive from the tax revenues derived from the Economic Concert. Which we raised ten years ago and which has not been done. And it has not been done exclusively by harming the parliaments and municipalities. And we have heard many excuses for the delay of this law, excuses since the last legislature. First, that we had to fix the Cup, which I had nothing to do with. Then, that is that the outside parliaments had different governments and the Basque Government was another, and then there were four parties in four institutions and that was very complicated to agree on. Perhaps it was easier to agree, but apparently no one tried, and in that case the responsibility rests with others. Now they are all of the same, that is, the Basque Nationalist Party, and it turns out that they do not agree either. And perhaps they don't agree because this law continues to happen the same thing that happened ten years ago, that there are two deputies who get hurt, or they can get hurt, and they always get benefited the same one, which is the Basque Government. Because the system proposed by the law is that deputies who had more income at best were left with less money, but the Basque Government did, increase their income. That's what happened. And the solidarity fund was changed because it did not arrive, and it stopped calling it "solidarity" because it had nothing of solidarity, because it was to correct the gaps in the law itself, and it was called "adjustment fund". And it went up to 1% because it was thought that it would cover the gaps that some of the delegations produced. And we already said he wasn't going to do it, and he hasn't. And he hasn't. And despite the excuses, we are told "No, it's the fault of the Municipal Law"... The Municipal Law has been in force for six months with regard to the municipalities being able to go to the Basque Finance Council to give their opinion on this Law on Contributions, which obviously has a major impact on the financing of the municipalities. Because it is not the same thing that the parliaments are left with 30% of the collection, which is the one they have to share with the municipalities, to have a 35, because then the councils will have more funding and the parliaments will have more funding. Some things have happened in these years too! There has been a large transfer that has been received by the Basque Government, which was active employment policies. It diminishes from the Cup, and nothing happens, and nothing happens to the Basque Government. Now, decisions of the Basque Government, decisions of this Parliament in the Municipal Law, increase the costs of municipalities and deputies without accompanying the funding. And that is why this law is very important, because it is the law that guarantees these social services that at four o'clock in the afternoon worried all groups. But the way there is more funding is to increase the percentage that corresponds to deputies and municipalities in that Act on Contributions. And we all know that. And when we talk about active employment policies and Lanbide I will remember that the Basque Nationalist Party interfered in the negotiation of the Basque Government, and managed to start a competition because the fury was more important than the egg, which were the contract bonuses. And that does cost us 50 million euros a year, it has been costing us 50 million euros a year, that great contribution. Because it's more important, as we've been told here, than the egg. And, therefore, we raise three very simple things in this non-law proposition. First, let the Government bring us the bill. Secondly, that the distribution of income by agreed taxes makes it possible to finance social services, increasing the number of deputies and municipalities. And, third, that the gaps that it produces between the different administrations be corrected. It's as simple as that. I know they're going to vote against us, and I know they're not going to, like they didn't many years ago. Man, this has another solution, too. It has another solution, because, given the neo-centralizing agreement that has taken place today in the Congress of Deputies, and if now the competition in social welfare, minimum wage and social services will be in the Congress of Deputies, in laws that are passed there, then perhaps we get in that way to finance social services without touching anything of the participation of municipalities and deputies in the current distribution of the tax revenues that we have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u136	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u137	Yes, good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. This time Popular Party has brought in a discussion of the Law of Contribution. Here's the discussion that the law was not introduced until December 16th, although the meeting at the Basque Council Council was agreed that the law would be there for that date. It is true that this law must have been renewed long ago, since 2011. In fact, in 2017 we should have another law, the next, but here we are, still applying the law that we've accepted in 2006. When he announced that the law was not to be announced in December, the chairman of the sub-subse here present, he placed three great reasons on the table: one, that according to the new Law of the Places Organization, there must be a set of works to examine the jurisdictions of every institution, and the needs of the financial necessities of each body, and that the report which this group will make is to be used to establish the New Confederate Law; two, that the Law has recently been made; and that three, with the Government of Spain, have begun the item which the negotiation should renew the Kopo Law, and which would necessarily affect it. The first of these reasons, I should say, I should say, at least that it has weight, because the other two, somehow, were already known in February. The first reason is that the First Constitution of the Law of the Places Organization is to make sure that the Institutions of the Basque People are of the right fund, because they are the Administration of the people nearest to them. And even in this same regulation, it is also determined that this examination is due in a year, that is, until April 2017 this year. Then, in the shortest run of time, all the mechanism of the Contribution Act for the Contribution Act must be put into a new rule-text, the regulations necessary on the results of the examination mentioned, and all the changes which are received in this law on the consideration of the division of the townships, the model distribution of the horizontal distribution, and the horizontal coefficients of the contribution of each historical land; and likewise in the necessary contrivances to rectify the differences which may occur in the horizontal distribution of the means mentioned. It is not a new question of the jurisdictions of the institutions, and of the financial necessities of each, for it is in the heart of the controversy about the internal organisation of the EAE. We cannot forget that the Contribution Law of the Histical Lands is the direct consequence of the Law; and we all know that this Law, and the disputes about it, appear every time in this Assembly of Laws. No one, no one doubts that a new Law on Contributions is necessary, a balanced law; more now that local authorities also come into play after the adoption of the Law on Local Entities. We need a law with a country perspective, as it is an essential law for the implementation of public policies. It is known that this law determines how the bulk of the available resources is distributed between the different institutional levels and between the different historical territories, and it also determines, ultimately, what resources each institution has to finance the competences it has assigned. Therefore, we believe that it should be a law with a country view, away from partial visions of each institutional level. In fact, each institutional level could argue for an increase in its resources. For example, the ageing of the population could be claimed by the Government in terms of health, or by the members of parliament in relation to social welfare, both as an argument in favour of greater resource needs. And you have our proposition, and that's it: "Let the Government bring the law to the legislature after it has been agreed on the Council of Public Relations. And the other is the URA of social services, Mr. Damborena, in order that he may secure the proper and sufficient fund of the welfare of social services." This last section is essential to EH Collect, because they are essential to a just society, because they are worthy social services and municipal institutions most akin to the community. It is very easy, when we speak of the things of money, to find arguments to justify more resources for each man's house, and it is plain that there are, and still more, when the means are wanting. To date, the various negotiations on contribution laws have generally taken place at favourable economic times, and yet have not always been simple, as Mr Damborenea has explained. And at present they will not be, because of the growing need for resources at all institutional levels. But that need for resources is not solved by asking for a bigger piece of cake, because in the end the cake is as it is and no longer gives. This need for resources must be addressed through tax policies that increase collection, with efficient and responsible efforts, highlighting the tax effort that the Act itself envisages, so that the pie to be distributed is greater. And that doesn't take away that the way to distribute can be more efficient, it would miss more! But it is not possible, alas, to doubt the division on one side, in order to demand more resources for certain concrete administrations, and to require taxes to be smaller and smaller. That's what PP claims, and he doesn't claim to demand enough financial funding for social services, not even if he writes it and now he proclaims it over and over again. He changes the character of political institutions to weaken them politically. There's nothing else on the Polula Party. It is ironic to me that the party in which the political system, which has been reduced to a narrower scale, has had an obstinate attitude against the social rights of society, in its proposal the finance of social services. Because it is contradictory that a party that seeks to make financing of social services possible here, as it puts it in its proposal, cuts at the state level more than 600 million necessary to guarantee dependence. It is ironic that the People's Party on the exhibition side says aseptically that since 2006 the economic situation has changed substantially, and that new legal obligations condition the economic situation of the institutions, when their responsibility is, in this new situation, manifest. It is obvious because the new laws, in which we could frame the Budget Stability Act, among others, are laws made by the People's Party itself. And it is obvious because the policies of the People's Party have played a major role in this economic crisis and its pernicious effects on society. We shall therefore not, on this subject, agree with those who use such vain arguments. We will not join those who seek to quarrel with historical regions. We do not agree with the party which aims at weakening the institutions of the common that are necessary to strengthen the nature of our people, and to manage our independence. Our attitude is clear, and I have already explained: We need a new law of contributions, the law of contribution which is the view of the people, a balanced law, and a public policy so necessary to different institutions. We must be all of this, and we really hope to hear and consider the voice of all those who are in the People's Office Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u139	Good afternoon, everyone. Last item on the agenda, and we have the Act on Contributions. Well, it gets us tired, but I think the debate has to be simple and short, because the equal moment is not the right one, more than anything by the approval procedure. And this Parliament will have to discuss the Act on Contributions, but not before it is agreed at the Basque Finance Council. The Law on Contributions is, logically, the one that establishes – and all those who have spoken to me have said this – the one that determines the contribution of the outlaws to the financing of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Okay. How this process is to be implemented is reflected in the Historical Territories Act, and says that it will be the Public Finance Council that approves the methodology, and, once it has been approved, the Government will refer to Parliament the draft law that will incorporate the methodology, which must be previously agreed upon. I mean, this Parliament will come, yes or yes, but when it has to come. Not with a PNL from the People's Party, but when the agreement is reached at the Basque Finance Council. And, as the PNL that it has submitted reports, it says that the previous law, that of 2007, approved the methodology for the period 2007-2011, which previously – and intentionally forgets – had been agreed by the Basque Finance Council and not promoted or ordered by this Parliament, and they did so at the session held on 18 January 2007. That is why this Parliament was able to approve it later. We share part of what has been said by other groups, and, it is true, the Act on Contributions is an essential law for the implementation of the public policies of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, both in the Basque Government and in the deputies and in the municipalities, because it determines how we distribute between the different institutional levels, between the different historical territories and now also among the municipalities, the bulk of the resources we have, and also determines how much each one has to finance the competences he has attributed. It is a law that will define or define the financing of the country model we want, and in which a financial sufficiency for the provision of all public services must be ensured. Not only social services, which are important, but also health, also education, also security, also employment, also tourism, economic promotion... Everyone, not just social services. And that is where I think the two GNPs are wrong, both that of the People's Party and that of EH Bildu, because that of EH Bildu does make the journey of how the Law on Contributions should be approved, after agreement at the Basque Finance Council, but then says that the financing of social services is guaranteed. Man, of those, I imagine, and of all. I don't think they're telling us that one over another. The Basque Socialists, and I have already said that on other occasions in this rostrum and in this we agreed, Mr Damborenea, and we continue to agree... in which it is necessary to amend the Act on Contributions. And it will be done, won't it? Because we want to update all the institutions, and this is not the first time you hear me say it, and update them and not act for inertia. That is why we also share with you the need to update this law, to update the methodology by which we calculate the allocation of resources between the Community, the territories and the municipalities. But I also believe that it is necessary to do so without media emergencies, without press headlines, from the analysis of the technical data of the evolution and of the effective result that the distribution of resources has had during this period of law enforcement, and with a goal that has to be clear, and that is to ensure adequate, adequate and supportive funding of all the public services that our institutions provide: of health, education, social services, security, housing, employment..., of all those that occur to them, of the Basque Government, of the deputies and of the municipalities. And not just, as I told you, social services, however important they may be. Nor should you forget this House which approved, by April 2016, a law on local institutions which incorporates the first transitional provision, which as a short story I will read literally. It says: "In order to ensure that the local entities of the Basque Autonomous Community have adequate funding" – which you are so concerned about – "within one year of the entry into force of this Law" – i.e. until April 2017 – "and through the Basque Public Finance Council, a general analysis of the competences and funding of the various institutional levels of the Basque Autonomous Community will be carried out to ensure an adequate distribution of public expenditure in the Basque administration. The conclusions of this analysis will be taken into account in the revision of the law defining the methodology for the distribution of resources and the determination of the contributions of outlying Members to the financing of the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community". If it's too clear! We need the report, and we have already been mentioned by the adviser who is currently in the process of drafting it; according to the latest public demonstrations we have been able to hear, he has his forecast for April and May, and we will have time, after we know him, after it can be analysed by the Basque Finance Council, when necessary, to reach an agreement between the territories and institutions and the Basque Government at that time, to arrive at a new Law on Contributions. But not before. I therefore believe that we have wronged the moment when we have to debate in this Parliament. And I am not going to go into the substance of the issues that you have raised, because we could talk about things that have been dealt with during the period of application of the Act on Contributions, such as the effects, for example, of the deregulation of taxes between the three territories and their effects on the distribution of resources.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria, and, already, all the good afternoons. We are here today, as has been said, to discuss a report of the Laws of Confederation at Euskal Autonomy Erria. Together we can see from Podemos an account of this law, because, as the former have said, it follows from 2006, which is 2017th today, a law which has been made in force for five years. He said that today, already at the last item on the agenda, we come to talk about the renewal of the Basque Country's Act on Contributions, and that in Elkarrekin We are of the firm conviction that it must be renewed as soon as possible. And, by the way, I'd say it's something we should have done a long time ago. We are regulating the contributions between the different Basque administrations on the basis of a law adopted in 2006 and originally designed to be in force for five years, and yet another five years more than expected have passed, and at that time the realities of our history have changed, and much, making their revision essential today. At the same time, however, we believe that it should not only be reviewed how the cake is distributed among the different administrations, but also the size of the cake we have to distribute. I will go sideways, trying not to obviate at any time the importance of either of the two issues. When talking about the Law on Contributions, there is no doubt that in times of crisis it is difficult for all administrations to make a greater effort to meet their present needs, and that all administrations therefore demand more resources. However, the extension of some social rights and the deployment of the social services portfolio, as has already been said, represent new challenges for parliaments and municipalities. And this challenge is being faced without adequate resources, which makes the budgetary needs of these institutions greater. In our view, as a result of these new obligations, vertical coefficients should be updated so that any administration can provide the social services that its citizens deserve. It is necessary for parliaments and municipalities to have a sufficient participation coefficient to enable them to meet those present needs that we cited earlier. With regard to horizontal coefficients, we believe that they need a review, as does the General Adjustment Fund, since it is certainly not well designed if we look at what has happened over the past year, for just one example. This fund should be put forward well so that the principle of levelling is actually complied with. We cannot allow the territories not to have sufficient resources to deal with their policies, basically because this results in the most vulnerable people once again being the worst affected by somewhat more than better political management. As I said before, the same or more important that the distribution of the cake is the cake itself. Today the debate for the Law of Contributions for us is instrumental. The ultimate goal of what we need to address is whether all Basque public administrations have enough revenue to meet the expenditure that society demands and needs. Because we have seen how in recent years, with the excuse of the crisis, we have opted for a policy of reducing public spending particularly on key issues for the well-being of citizens. We see, for example, how health spending has been falling year after year since the onset of the crisis, how cuts in GIR, far from reversing themselves, are still on the rise, or how, for example, as we throw balloons from one roof to another on the results of the PISA report, education spending has also been lower in 2016 than in 2009. And for us and for us here is most of the problem, as we have already mentioned on other occasions in this House or in the various appearances of advisers. The problem lies in the size of the cake to be distributed. Something we are doing wrong as a society, when the money that is collected is not enough to invest what is needed in our citizenship. And probably, like other times, they will tell us that we are new, that we are new, that we would have to know that the competences for this mainly reside in the outlying estates, but we repeat once again, to the ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the Socialist Party, who cannot forget that you have the key to carry out another fiscal policy, as you govern both in the Basque Government and in the three parliaments. And I also said this in the plenary on 22 December, when, again because of the misconceptions of the Basque Public Finance Council, we had to find ourselves here approving an increase in the spending ceiling instead of discussing an income floor. And I hope that sooner or later we can see that your deputies-general have decided to study how to increase collection by increasing the tax burden on those who have the most. For example, by making use of corporate tax deductions, or by making a real progression of the IRPF. Because we know that you like to breastfeed by saying that we are approaching certain parameters in Europe, as has happened recently, but, while in Britain, for example, the inheritance tax is 40%, in Euskadi it is only 1.5%. And, therefore, I would like to make it clear that we are strong supporters of the need to renew the Basque Country's Act on Contributions, but we will never overlook that what is at the basis of financial insustainability in our institutions is its current fiscal policy. We need to rethink it so that our institutions can meet the present needs of Basque citizenship, and that happens, as I said at the beginning of my speech, not only because of how we distribute the cake, but also because of the size of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u142	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, president, chief physician. Good evening to all. We, too, when the legal proposal was proposed, thought it was not the time to make this discussion, and hence to avoid all corrections or corrections. We thought it was not the time. In any case, we will discuss the great ideas of the introduction. There are, above all, three of the great ideas you plan. On the one hand, that the Laws of Contributions have been long extended, as the Representatives of other political parties have said, that new service and preparation are in the hands of the municipal and foru-bursts, and that important differences have been produced in the years in which the law has been established. I'll start from the first. It is true, as you say, that the law has lasted so many years, but you have forgotten to say that it is not only a question of public opinion, but that the law itself, in its first transitory regulation, will appear in a yearly period of time, and that the law of contributions will be made. And in the meantime the second constant regulation says that the opinion will extend the law of the contributors in force, and that the consequences of this report will be considered later. That's exactly what he says: "They'll stay in the North for the distribution of resources and the forum scandals for Eusal Autonomy of Erdi..." "' (... ) "... until the Basque Council of the United Nations has made the first permanent regulation of this law... "I don't know. So, at the moment, we're in time for the procedure. In the second place, you mention new services and preparations, both because there is a new law in the sphere of social services, and a decree which puts the wallet of social services, and the law of council, but I think it important to consider and leave it to those who are in it, and to those who are to be examined by them, and to those who are to be examined by ease, what jurisdictions are in every circle of jurisdictions, and how much it costs. We can't forget him, and first Monsieur Damborena, you said, "Siempre sale beeficida una parte, siempre sale beeficido el mismo, que es el Gobierno Vasco." And, I think, let's believe what people tell us when they work. I believe that technicians and politicians, who are working here, are not here to lie, will be tested, put data on the table, and will be decided accordingly, because it is true that there are new jurisdictions between the councils and the forum authorities, but it is true, for example, that if the income of money was paid for a slight example, like RIA, 2012, 415, the one executed in 2016 would be a million in return of 495. That is, he has a need of more than 80 million dollars to support incomes in order to finance his rent. And even in this Chamber, groups of different political parties have been constantly defending it. That's to give you an example. I think we ought to leave them to think of the techniques and politicals that are in it. Then we'll have a chance to see the discussion and discuss it. That the law has been important imbalances for years, well, that must be considered too. We'll see, it's not so easy to confirm that. Hemen daukat 2011n Zurita jaunak Arabako Batzar Nagusietan esandakoa. Galdera bat egiten zuen Arabako Batzar Nagusietan, zen zen ghetto: "What is the department's figure of the territorial imbalances referring to the resources available per inhabitant?". Eta weretzuna izan zen: "It is not possible to establish a fixed percentage or amount of these imbalances, since they depend on many changing variables at each moment. It depends on the collection of its own, the collection of other territories, the result of the adjustment fund and the temporary moment, the socio-economic moment considered." Eta bat cataz berak esandakoarekin. Ez da hain error. Aztertu bitez momentuan daden zirkunstantziak eta gero ondorioak athera. As for what you ask in the other proposition of the Law, you ask first of all to give the Law. We believe that Rhodano, the law, rules, that in itself there is no need for it. Yes, you and EH Collect are asking for the same thing. You say that we accept the Basque Council of the United Nations and come next. This is an oval; the law naturally commands it, and there is no need to command it again from this chamber. Second, you asked for the same proposal as yours "que el coeccente de ayucidas para la finenciación mâdun de poíticas sociles se incremente." Well, you know very well that the councils don't have coefficients, only the aldudias, but I understand what is meant in the initiative. In any case, the law of Contributions requires not only one kind of law, but only social politics, as has been said before. And security? What about education? What about health? What about re-reviving policies for the economy? Aren't you going to take care of them all? The Point of Connection of Contribution is all Jurisdiction. All the jurisdictions of different institutions, not one. And we mustn't enter the Contribution Law. The priorities are established. The former project will come, and that is where we must see which of them are prior. Third, you said "subsan equidents" error. I think your jucios de valor is what makes popular parties. I told you what's the point of view, and we don't protect it. And even when you collect, you mention the finance of social services, and we believe that we must maintain it, that the law of the contributors ought to regard all jurisdictions, to give all importance, and not a default above all others. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing the answer shift to the Basque Popular Group. Lord Damborena has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Pinedo, the 70% that you saw in your day in the Law of Contributions is random. It was random, it didn't respond to any reality of spending. And I do not say it, that also; this was already said ten years ago in this rostrum by Mr. Good. I didn't make it up! Bildu tells us "The problem is that we have to raise taxes more." I'll tell you. Here we have a discussion and we can have it to infinity. We have the highest taxes than ten years ago, and we collected less than ten years ago. Then, conclusion: let's lower taxes, see if we collect more. Like ten years ago, of course. And you know, as I know, that the problem of collection is not to raise taxes, but that more people work and more people collide, and that businesses spend more money and obviously pay more taxes. That's how you raise more! And he's telling me about the cut-off of the Unit Act. But it's just that I, of recognized independents of exclusive competencies... But whose competence is it in dependence, in social welfare, in social rights, in the social charter...? Isn't it ours? Don't we have exclusive competition? Don't we have the Economic Concert? What do you mean, the government of Spain has cut us off? What? Or are we on pedigrees? Do we believe in Economic Concert and the system, or what are we talking about? Are not the exclusive competencies and we finance them with our taxes? Or perhaps this neo-centralizing effect of this afternoon in Madrid, saying some that we are going to export to the rest of Spain the Basque minimum wage system... Is this what you're asking me? Look, we do defend our skills, and we pay for them. And he doesn't have to pay us anyone else. And, well, conflict between territories. I have never, neither in this rostrum nor outside this rostrum, raised conflict between territories, created it by those who make rules, who make dysfunctions, and not equal to the territories. Mrs. Castelo, when is it time to debate? Six years late! And this goes for you, too, eh! Six years late! And he says, "He doesn't touch." Well, I don't know when he's playing! And when does he play? It says "we're on time." Fuck! Then we'll be on time! And he tells us... I don't need you to explain to me what the system is like to pass a contribution law, I already know it. I even know that the agreement of the Basque Finance Council comes here, in a single reading article, without the group's capacity for amendments. And, therefore, if I want to bring this debate here – which, by the way, is one of the powers of this Parliament or of this House – and I want to say to the government, at last, "We would like it to correct the gaps that there were, the technicians, and also to lower the percentage of the government to increase the number of municipalities and parliaments," or I say it now, or it is not worth. Either I say it before the bill comes, or it's read-only and you vote for it or you vote against it. See if I know the subject! Because you made the same allegations to the previous one ten years ago, or very similar to ours, and some coincident with those gentlemen. But you, instead of voting against, voted in favour, because Mr Zapatero needed the votes of these gentlemen. That I remember, too, of course. And the new excuse now is that we now need a report, a report that needs to be made of the competences that we have and do not have, and you tell me about health, education... When health or education were transferred, all that was discounted from the Cup, all that was evaluated. Here what has never been valued? The Social Rights Letter! When does it cost? How much should it cost the municipalities and the deputies? Or social emergency aid, which now with the Municipal Law also goes to the municipalities. Because the powers that the Basque Government has been receiving, all these were taken out of the Cup. As with active employment policies! What has led to the transfer of active employment and Lanbide policies? None! What problem has caused the Basque Government? None. None. And he tells us... Look, the excuse for the report is I think it's worth it now, isn't it? That is to say, we all know that there was no agreement on 17 December because the outside parliaments and the Basque Government, which had left to agree, did not agree. And they didn't agree one more time. And now they're all from the same party and the same governments, both rule. And the analysis this is telling us that we have to do it now ten years ago, and ten years ago we coincided in the analysis of social spending that was increasing in municipalities and parliaments, and that then this government has increased it further with its decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u146	Mr. Damborena, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u147	Yes, yes, thank you very much, but since I was very brief in the first intervention, you're going to allow me to finish... (Barreak)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u148	No, no. Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u149	He's gonna let me finish. We did it ten years ago, that analysis, and what the problem was, and how it was solved, which was also quite simple and simple. And don't tell me that the income guarantee income goes up and therefore the government has more expenditure, because that is a decision of the government and this House. Because you can lower it, but the municipalities and the deputies can't lower it and can't take it off it. Sure, sure! That's the difference: that you here do have the ability to decide how much I spend, and the others don't. And we are defending that the municipalities and the parliaments have sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u150	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. EHGG rep. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u151	Yes, thank you. Well, let's get started. Mr Damborenea, I sometimes have doubts as to whether the same translation does not arrive as it must, but in this case it has not been the translation, it has been your subconscious. Because I have said that this need for resources must be addressed by fiscal policies that increase collection. That's what I said, Mr. Damborenea. Another thing is what you have in your subconscious, which is what you wanted to hear here, but this has been what I said, Mr Damborenea. And then you tell me that you make a defense of the competences of this territory, of the Autonomous Community, of the Economic Concert, of the quota... You know you won't find me there on the other side. You know what I'm going to defend at all times, but you know as well as I do that since the quota was negotiated last time, and the quota law is in force, the unit law is later. So, don't tell me no one has to pay our expenses for... If I don't say pay for it by the Government of Spain! I didn't say that at any time. I have put on the table that it was contradictory for you to come here as adelids and advocates of social services and social policies, when it is your colleagues in Madrid who make cuts of more than 600 million in the Unit Law. Which is not the same as you said. It just seemed like you wanted another speech from me, but I'm sorry, Mr. Damborenea, you've been shot in the ass. And, Mrs. Castelo eta Gorospe anderea, diskurtso parekoa eduki duzue; jakina, Gobernua suspendagatzen duzuen alderdiak zarete. That's not the time to argue. I think the debate is never too much, and it is also that the two have used the same argument since EH Bildu said that this law should guarantee social services. I insist: the bill will ensure, among other extremes (among other extremes), adequate and sufficient funding for the Basque Social Services System. Among other extremes. We are clear that we must ensure health, education, the roads of the parliaments, etc., but we made mention of social services because the original proposal of the People's Party repeatedly made mention of social services, and we thought it was interesting that we also made mention of that in our amendment. But, I insist, among other extremes. And again they come to me with that... Well, it seems to me that this is not the time for debate, that you are aware that – it is true, and I have said this – it will be the Basque Finance Council that agrees (I insist, agree, and we hope that it will agree between all parties and that all parties will talk about this law that is so fundamental), but I also do not think that anything will happen because in Parliament we stand or talk about the Law on Contributions, which is so important for budgets, that then at some point they will have to go through this Parliament. So, a little more to say. Mr Bollain, well, we'll split the cake between you and me, because it looks like we both want cake and extend that cake, which is that some here never talk about it, because they don't care. Because they don't care. And when the People's Party insists on putting the municipalities and the parliaments (and so the subconscious does not fail them; it is their identity), I have said this in my first intervention, it is because of a policy issue of the People's Party, which does so in this and has done so in other matters. Because it is much more interesting to put the force there and weaken the common institutions, to weaken everything that can go on the way of our a posteriori sovereignty. So, we're done. I am going to leave that time, President Andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u153	You let me out, Mr. Damborenea. I didn't mean to go down to the stage in the second intervention, but, of course, he comes here, says something, and gives the feeling that you're right. Man, I read something before I went down to talk about the Law of Contributions, and when you told me this came out of nowhere, no, it's not true. The first Law of Contributions is not true that it was made like one thing that "you stay with seven and I stay with three". Well, no. Law 7/85, for the three-year period 86-88, determined expenditure for each of the institutions, setting 64.25 and 35.75 on the basis of the general budgets at that time of the Basque Government and outlaws, as they had established them. From there, since the approval of the LTH, changes have been made (which is why the current percentages) according to the transfers of functions and competences between the two institutions. I mean, it didn't come out of nowhere, and it hasn't changed for anything either, because things aren't usually done for anything. I believe that we all share the need to amend this law, from the quiet, and not from the media emergency. And that Mr Lehendakari knows perfectly well what the People's Party thinks of the Act on Contributions and the territorial imbalance of one particular territory in relation to the other two, too. No, but defend one! It's because you were there... And I have listened to him, because I have also done the Google search, which is very simple (when one comes to intervene here, Google searches news about what), I have met the deputy general of Álava, of the People's Party... That, by the way, we should not have done anything here, that we were responsible, but you were at the Basque Finance Council for many years and you have not been able to reach any agreement either. Because this consists of a little solidarity between the territories to finance the services that we all provide: those provided by the Basque Government, those provided by the parliaments and those provided by the municipalities. Because, of course, here it is very good to do adalides of the municipalities now, but then, when the parliaments distribute their money to the municipalities, then, like, they are a little narrower. Here you are generous, and down there just as much less, because the debate of municipalities we have had, and in an interesting way. That's why it seems to us, and it's not an excuse... It would be an excuse if this Parliament had not passed that law. I wasn't here when that law was passed, you think so, and you'll know what came out. And when the laws come out, you will be one of those who, like me, think they have to be respected, right? Well, he says we have to have a report within a year. We're on it. And after that we will change the law, knowing not what you think and the data of one of the parties, but exactly the data of all the parties (those of the Basque Government, those of the deputies and those of the municipalities) regarding the competences and how much they cost. And from there we'll have to establish how we contribute everything. Because, of course, there are debates here that... If we want to talk about the Act on Contributions, we are talking about the Act on Contributions, but, of course, you have come here to tell me to do something we can't do. What you want to defend yourself there, you tell him and you have told him a lot of times, on the part of a territory. Because he comes here and tells me that social services are guaranteed. Well, and health, and education, and police, and security and employment... I can put all the time I have left in this way, can't I? But tell me how. We must change the vertical coefficient, which was also said to me by Mr Bollain, Mr Podemos, who intervened. It says, "The vertical coefficient has to be sufficient, and the horizontal coefficient has to be modified." Well, I think that, if that was the agreement to be adopted, we already had it. It didn't take that long. Of course, now you define me as "sufficient", and define the modification of the horizontal coefficient for interterritorial solidarity that has to be produced so that we can pay among all what we really want. Because, of course, it gives me the feeling that you were complaining that the expenditure on health has fallen, in the GIR, in education..., and that you would be propelling or agreeing that that expenditure would remain or even grow. And for that we must have sufficient resources, and in this case the common institution of the Basque Government, which is the one providing those services that you have mentioned. And, of course, that affects the vertical coefficient. But then on the other hand we have the social services, which also affect the parliaments and the municipalities. So, there's also the vertical coefficient, but against it. So, it's not that simple a speech. I mean, let's have the peace of mind, let's have the data, because I also have the technical data on other issues that affect the Law of Contributions and that, for the time I have left and because it's the last hour of the afternoon, I'm not going to tell you more than the statements. But we also need to talk about the consequences of tax deregulation between territories, when one gives for doing one thing, because there is an electoral campaign in the middle and they are there more than anyone, and they put us through the IRPF something that they do not collect and that then has to be done in solidarity for the rest of the territories. Or what happens to the conditions of application of the adjustment fund, or how its operation and endowment is determined, or the synchrony or asynchrony between the flows that were occurring between the tax revenues or contributions that had to be made, or how the European framework has affected... Of course, if issues to deal with in the amendment of the Law of Contributions there are a few! It is not only a matter of "lowering the vertical coefficient, giving less money to the Basque Government and more to the parliaments". That is a very simplistic speech, which you know they do, of course, with very little technical rigour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together represent Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u155	Thanks again, Mrs. Tejeria. Mrs. Castelo, I'm very young, but luckily I made the career when still spending on education allowed us to make careers, and I know what the intellectual coefficient is. Whenever we want to stay, we talk about it. [[Berber]] Mr Damborenea, you said that the problem of collection does not come from raising taxes, but from working more or creating jobs. Well, it's a method, but in my intervention I didn't mean it, but I meant that what we don't want is to raise taxes, or we don't want to raise taxes to workers with a temporary contract who are earning 400 euros. What we are asking is for a fiscal policy to exist or to be implemented that is truly progressive, with greater fiscal pressure on those who have the most, not those who have the least. Mrs. Gorose, you said trust. Trust me, we want to have confidence, but as soon as possible, please, because we've had a little time, and I think the time of innovation has come. He should have arrived a long time ago, but at least if he comes now, it would be a step forward. Well, I regret not being able to reach a consensus among the various parliamentary groups in this House, but, as I said, I hope to have a contribution law as soon as possible, as we have been with an extended law for five years. And, Mrs Pinedo, we say that you and we want the cake to be enlarged, but, yes, it seems that in this House there are parties that prefer the cake to be small, because the small cake costs less and, although it touches us less to distribute, the money that you don't need the cake to live on, so it stays in your pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Finally, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u157	With your permission, Chief of Parliament, from here on the bench. As for the deadlines, Bollain, we've been able to tell all of us in the first round. For years past, there's been a law for modification in the Council, this Chamber admitted another law last year, and we're the ones who've made that law, and we'll wait to do what that law says, because, after all, we've got to make the new law of contributions. Monsieur Damboena, you tell me I've mentioned RGI or made you equal, but after all the rent to guarantee incomes is a subjective right as well as the other services and preparations which the local and local institutions have to offer. And if you say, "You can change the rent here to ensure your incomes, that's your choice," it would be changed, and there would be a chance to change the law, and there would be a change of service and preparation. I'd like to finish with some expressions made by the Chief SubAzus on this subject: "It is natural to dissect a profound law, which, based on the consent of the institutions, and in answer to the wants of the next year, will maintain the financial will." That's what we want to be, that's what's gonna guarantee the financial will. "We must seek a form of stability which will account for the social characteristics of each country." And when I remember what the chief physician said to us, I would ask the representatives of different groups to advance from the public point of view and receive from the public view a law of contributions which will be beneficial to all and to all the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u159	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstainments 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-02-02.u160	So it's not accepted. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. It's very long; whoever wants to read it has it in the register, and I'll only draw it out. "In the presence of the attacks which the Christian society has suffered, the institutional expression of the Basque parliament: "Chrysalis Eusalis for the campaign which has been fought by the team, and in the presence of the attacks of this law, this legislature understands and protects both the children who are under the state of transestivity and the well-being of the adults and the near environment where Chrysallis has completed the campaign and its demands. "Besides, he prefers to praise and applaud the work of the community over all obstacles. "The Parliament denounces, without palliatives, the attacks on the campaign launched by Chrysallis. "In front of this, he informs us that, in order to improve the conditions of life of the Trans* community, and to ensure their rights, and to penetrate into the growth of the law of transestivity, the programmes of the schools, in the education of nations... We mean that it will continue to take steps." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon.
