ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, a few small notes. First of all, as you know, it's blood poisoning today. They say there's a lot to do about vacations. I've been told to deliver the message to all of you, and, please, to cheer you up. Secondly, in the days when there is bloodshed, the vote ends; after the discussion, that the people may be quiet. But the vote is after the vote, and we'll do it first. On each subject, we'll make a double turn and a vote, and then we'll finally have a vote. Yeah? Okay? Let's start with the first point: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentarian People of Euscal, which changes the 13/1988 Act of the October of the Basque School Council. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. We shall, therefore, proceed directly to the discussion without reading it. Here, in addition to Mr. Barrio's turn, who else wants to participate? representing the population party. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Of course, I will not spend the thirty minutes I have in time on this issue, on which the Government has also given a favourable report on the consideration. My group presents this initiative, I think, by understanding the opportunity, you need to enrich something basic in the education system, essential, important, as is the Euskadi School Council. After having had contacts with the social economy sector, the cooperative sector, we have detected an insufficiency, we have been able to detect that deficit, what we could call an insufficiency, an absence in the composition of the Euskadi School Council: education cooperatives are not represented, they are not part of the Euskadi School Council, of the Euskadi School Councils, and yet their weight in education, in employment, in the essential characteristics that have to do with education and with the very element that represents the social economy, because it is very important in the Basque Country; in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Without going further, we have to remember that the cooperative educational offer in the Basque Country is 36% of the offer of the concerted network, and it is slightly more than 17% if we take into account the entire non-university Basque education system, that is, the public and the concerted one. Very relevant data in relation to this situation. We have valued the data that has been provided to us. We have been in contact with associations, with groups of educational cooperatives; in particular recently we have also been able to have data from Erkide Iraqaskuntza, which is the Association of Educational Cooperatives, which is constituted as a representative body of the educational institutions of Euskadi with cooperative ownership, and, within Erkide, the Federation of Associated Labour Cooperatives, Education, Consumption and Credit of Euskadi. And the data is there. And relevant data are provided, and there is a very important work in both Erkide Iraqaskuntzan and within mainly educational cooperatives, partners or non-partners, in the different cooperatives and in the different areas and associations that bring together cooperatives. Since 1990 it has been working (a long time) in association, in relation to the educational cooperatives of Euskadi, and is currently grouped, in an area like this, eighty-two educational cooperatives within different federations, different associations of ikastolas, of..., also bringing together the activities of the university itself and other centers, and of course associations and cooperatives that do not form part of any association. That is, that there is a very important framework of action in relation to educational cooperatives, diverse, diverse, but all within what is the concept, the keys, the thesis, the philosophy of the social economy, and that applied to education, applied to the education of young people, something very important. According to the data we also have, in the distribution by historical territories of educational cooperatives – I say again, the most relevant data on the federates, which are the clearest – are ten cooperatives in Álava, thirty-seven in Bizkaia, and thirty-five in Gipuzkoa. By type or form of cooperative, co-operatives of parents, fifty; integral co-operatives, twenty-one; co-operatives of workers, eleven. And we can say that these eighty-two cooperatives have a total of 72,847 pupils (a very relevant figure: 72,847 pupils), a total of 6,276 jobs (we are talking about 5,071 teachers and 1,205 non-teaching staff, a very relevant figure in relation to the education sector), and – I say again the figure I said before – representing 36% of the Basque country's concerted network and about 17% of the entire non-university Basque education system. In addition, there are 50,000 parent partners in educational cooperatives. That is, that we are talking about relevant, important issues, which I believe we need to value in what we have presented, which is the participation of educational cooperatives within the Euskadi School Council. The Basque School Council, to be remembered, is the body of participation of the social sectors involved in the general programming of non-university education, and of consultation and advice on the regulations to be proposed by the Basque Government in the field of education. It is a factor, an important body of participation, and that is something to be valued. Every day we talk more about transparency, we talk more about participation, and in that these cooperatives, these formulas of social economy that entangle with education, must be protagonists, in that participation that then leads the Basque Government to make the best decisions. We have already seen how the educational community, non-university teaching staff, parents, students, administration staff and services, private educational institutions, the University of the Basque Country, workers' unions, employers' organizations, educational administration, personalities of prestige in education, local administration, College of Doctors and Licenses, educational groups, Euskadi Youth Council... Something's missing, isn't it? There is a lack of educational cooperatives, there is a lack of representation of the social economy in the educational sphere, which, I say again, and we have seen before, is very relevant, very important, and which must occupy a position, of course a post that is going to be constructive, I have no doubt, in relation to the shaping of the idea of what has to be the road in the educational sphere. And it is clear that education cooperatives are missing. The plenary is composed of forty-six members, which is currently composed of forty-two with a secretariat, but in that sense we have detected that deficiency, that inadequacy, and I certainly believe that this Parliament can do well to complete that absence, that inadequacy. And that is why we have presented the proposal for a law for this debate and for its subsequent confirmation as a law, in connection with the amendment of Law 13/1988 of 28 October of the School Councils of Euskadi. The Basque Cooperatives Act, adopted in 1993 and which will be amended or changed in this legislature, or there will be a new law, but it defines an issue that is essential, and that will of course be immutable in future amendments: "They are educational cooperatives which carry out teaching activities at their various levels, stages, cycles, degrees and modalities in any branch of knowledge or training. They may also carry out extra-curricular or related activities, as well as provide school and complementary services and how many facilitate teaching activities". I mean, we see that educational cooperatives are regulated by law, they are defined by law...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u2	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u3	Thank you, President. They are defined by law, they are regulated, and we see that they also do their work, because quantitatively and qualitatively we see the level of implantation, and a level of implantation that is increasing over time. That is, in that sense we will see it from that analysis and from that point of view. On the other hand – he spoke of the Cooperatives Act – we will now have to talk about the Law of 13/1988, of School Councils of Euskadi, which regulates school councils, which is what we want to amend through this law. The School Councils Act, Act 13/1988, regulates social participation in the general programming of education, precisely in the school councils of Euskadi. Our participation in the educational system, of course, participation, is an inescapable necessity in a democratic society like today, deeply felt by the sectors affected according to the constitutional expression. It is clear that little more has to be said. In other words, I believe that the amendment of the law is fully justified in relation to the participation of educational cooperatives, article 7 of that law: "The Euskadi School Council is the supreme body for the participation of the social sectors involved in the general programming of non-university education and for consulting and advising on draft laws, general provisions and regulations to be proposed or issued by the Basque Government, in the areas covered by this law". And co-operativeism is a truncated part of the social economy, and co-operativeism and social economy are perfectly connected with education and education, as we have seen. They do so with university education (there is nothing more to see the Basque experience in relation to this topic), and they do so with the rest of the teaching, of the educational factor in this country. Well, we can see an intimate link, a connection between teaching and co-operativeism on this earth, and that is why we have presented a very brief articulated text, in which a new script is added to Article 10 of Law 13/1988 of 28 October of the Euskadi School Councils, with the following literal tenor: "A representative of teaching cooperatives", to be part of the Euskadi School Council. And "a representative of the territorial education cooperatives" in relation to the school councils of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. I believe the opportunity is clear, and it is also part of what our contacts have been, and I am sure that those of your ladies and gentlemen, with the representatives or people who work or who are part of the associations or the educational cooperatives themselves, will surely have seen an opportunity in this initiative. And we also see that the Government, by agreement of the Governing Council, has agreed to express its approach in favour of consideration, and on the two issues raised by the following initiative in the same direction... It is different, because it raises some objection, but in this I believe it is clear that it assumes the need for this legislative reform, and it also acknowledges, as we do, that "the relevance of private educational establishments operating under cooperative arrangements has been made manifest in the educational sphere, and the proposed law allows for discussion on the possibility of including the participation of the above-mentioned educational cooperatives in school councils". Here's the thing. Let us hope that the law will also be dealt with quickly, I believe that we can debate in an intensive way, and that the chair of the relevant committee will stimulate and dynamically stimulate the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. As there is no intervention in the reverse shift, we'll go to the vote. First of all, Euskal Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u5	Yes, thank you, President. Well, today we are dealing with the proposal by the People's Group for a law amending Law 3/1988 of 28 October of the Euskadi School Councils, to which we will vote in favour. It is a law that established consultative, participatory and advisory bodies in the programming of non-university education. This law set up the council to be responsible at that time the Socialist Party for the educational management of this community, and the Basque School Council was set up, as I say, as the higher consultative body for the participation of the social sectors, referring to a subsequent regulatory development once its composition was established. The School Council, later regulated by Decree 55/1989, drew all the difficulties that any body must undergo from its creation to its definitive implementation, and we also believe that it has been carrying out its mission by informing the Administration of everything that was mandatory and by setting criteria as an independent and plural organ, in aspects related to the state of education in the Basque Country. We assume that the Euskadi School Council has fulfilled its obligations with regard to mandatory consultations, which is its essential task, to be set up as a binding, independent and plural reference for the advice of the Education Administration and for the participation of the social sectors. This body is composed of a main function, and that is participation, that of all sectors of the educational community that can contribute and improve our educational system, and it is composed of a representation: on the one hand those who are most involved in the functioning of education (teachers, parents, and students), and on the other hand all those who are involved in their ownership, as is the Administration itself, and on the other hand the trade union representatives. And that is why we are voting in favour of this bill, because we believe that any participation in this council is favourable. For the same reason, it seems appropriate, and also desirable, to include a representative of educational cooperatives in the representation of this body. Because for this very reason it was created, to give voice to the agents of the educational community and for their knowledge, their contributions and their proposals to help improve the Basque educational system, making it among all a quality system. Participation itself is already a democratic value, but it is also an indicator of the quality of all European education systems. Participation, therefore, is necessary, and a school council governed by the autonomy of criteria, which is sufficiently autonomous, plural and independent. This amendment is also very timely in order to improve the existing law. You win in upgrade, you win in renovation, and you win in efficiency. Because the law must regulate the right to participation and responsibility of the various parts of the educational system. It is an element that forms part of this system, and that must exercise its role to maintain the coherence of it and make up the participation of society and social groups in this co-responsibility for the functioning of the entire educational system. And if we have instruments like this and they can be improved, what needs to be done is to take advantage of them and get them started as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. The whole of the day's conference begins with a legal proposition introduced by the Parlamentian popular team, in order to change the 13/1988 law of October, the Basque School Council. So it's a member of the eucalypætrical School Council that they advise to introduce a member of the Coperacies of teaching, and so the Basque School Council would have more members. This law-produce, no doubt, allows us to open the discussion of the participation. It is in the nature of Podemus, because we believe that the participation of all the social institutions of education is indispensable, especially in those which affect them in the right direction, and in this particular case the eucalyprates of teaching through the Euscadian Council will be able to participate. The Basque School is the organ which permitted this participation, which at least cannot be doubted. Also, the frames of our present participation are out of date, and, in our opinion, we need deep changes. So together we mentioned a precise measure of the history of Podemos in the election program: We did not concentrate on the number of members of the school council, but on the importance of the participation. We mentioned in our program, as far as 83, that the protagonism of the school councils was necessary, and, in general, a law of participation in the schools which will renew the law of the modern School Councils. In other words, we're betting on an active part, which requires a complete reorganization of the School Council. We're talking about deep changes, not patches. Should the real and active participation of the educational community in matters directly within its competence be one of the priority issues on the Basque agenda, since does the integration of the sectors involved in a higher body of participation ensure real, active and effective participation? And, more importantly, what kind of participation are we talking about? The real change, the real key is to make citizens part of the process, in this case to make representatives and representatives of the School Council active. I only mean to say that together Podemos will vote for this bill of law presented by the popular Euslamentian Society, which changes the October 13/1988 law of the Basque School Council. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u9	The head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, fellow-at-laws, good morning to all. We'll say yes, Mr. Barrio. On the one hand, because it depends on our political culture, to give discussions, to debate, because, except for the exceptions related to the hand, it is always abscessable and necessary, and therefore we shall give this discussion the way to the form. And, on the other hand, in respect of content, we agree with the content in this case, because an operator who is a part of the legislative of education proposes to enter the Council of School, so that logical demand is proposed to enlarge the participation. And, on the other hand, we had planned to propose a change of school councils to make a tour of his character and functions, and to improve and to ensure his educational meetings. So EH Collect will test this discussion to update and strengthen the law on the School Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. And finally, the Eubertians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u11	Thank you, Chief. President, Chief, congressmans and representatives of the Council, good morning. In short, I'd like to reason about the cause of our vote. Our team will vote in favour of the legal proposition which has been proposed to reform the Basque School Council. And we'll vote side by side because these lectures are regulated by a law of 1988, because it's an old law, and that's the law that fixes the schools' meetings and the constitution we'll be able to discuss in the next few weeks. On the one hand, it is possible to share the educational unit in the general educational programming and the fundamental decisions the government adopts. Besides, the main subject of education (law projects, decrees, plans... ), they must be necessarily consulted. They propose suggestions about matters related to teaching, and they also evaluate the state of the Eucata education in the educational area, by educating and publishing cases. And because the affairs of the School Council are naturally important and numerous, we may readily perceive that the most extensive representation of the Educational Council is to be shared. The legal proposition, which has been introduced, demands that the co-operatives should be made room with the rest of the members in the school council, and we see no reason why they should be opposed. It is not even necessary to say that the co-operatives and the co-operative movement of the co-operatives have long been well rooted in euescal society, and that they work in various sectors, and in other matters of education or instruction. And the speakers who spoke before me have given various facts about the Copaetricians of teaching, and I will not repeat them now. We believe that co-operative co-operatives in the educational committee will aid us in a more complete photograph of the Esscal educational system. We are speaking of several different facts and projects, which have been included in other networks or associations, as a member of the community, as well as of several other such different works, such as the key, the key of study, the Eustratus Baz, Hetel, the Elstring of Learning, etc. It'll be a great deal to be able to recognize and appreciate the opinions, views, and contributions of the co-operatives. And, as has been said before, since the law was accepted, many years have elapsed since the law was approved, and we have a good view of adaptations in the law. We agree, as has been said, with the Koopratae, but our party does not avoid making other proposals, but we shall have occasion to speak and agree in the following weeks, and so only for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u12	Thank you, Mrs. News. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentary Popular Groups of Euscals, which changes the Union of Industries and Transformations on the 10th of June 5/1981. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we're just going to argue. Besides Popular, anyone else on the side? Then, Monsieur Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u13	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to greet the representatives of the cooperative movement who are accompanying us today in this plenary. And also shortly this second initiative. First of all, I would also like to thank the parliamentary groups for taking into consideration all the groups, the previous proposal for a law on educational cooperatives. And now we pass also, in the sense of the previous initiative... Our group, also in the contact we have been able to keep with the sector, we have detected the possibility – and that is what we want to see, the constructive, the possibility – of completing, the possibility of enriching the work of SPRI, the work of the Society for Competitive Transformation. When we talk about competitive transformation, or about industrial promotion and conversion, as was previously called SPRI, we are also talking about dozens of initiatives, about dozens of social economy companies that have in competitive transformation, in innovation, in technological development, in economic production, in job creation their main feature. We all know him. We all know those examples of social economy companies in this land, in this country, which are precisely those keys: competitive transformation and those areas of technological development and innovation and research that we all know very well. For example, there is also a need to continue to provide brief data on associated labour cooperatives. According to the latest information on industry, construction, services, which are perfect for this competitive transformation, Euskadi has many jobs, has tens of thousands of jobs in these cooperatives. Some 890 cooperatives are involved in these issues. In addition to the jobs of cooperatives, in addition to cooperatives themselves and these main characteristics in relation to competitive transformation, labour societies must also be added, with their relevant data, and other business formulas under the definition of the social economy of Law 5/2011. They are magnitudes, they are amounts, in terms of implementation, job creation, apart from work for innovation or work for industrial production, magnitudes, in terms of implementation and job creation, which we also have to see that they have endured, and that is why it is also a reference of authority in what can be a board of directors that talks about the issues and decides on the issues of industrial policy. They have put up with the crisis well, fundamentally – recently we were also commenting on an initiative presented in this Parliament on the government's future communication on the social economy – they have put up with the crisis well many of these cooperative or labour companies, or some other of the social economy formulas. And they're still putting up with it, or its effects. And these kinds of economic, industrial and business formulas are still being put in place. That is, in that sense we understand that we are on the right track. Besides, it's calculated, and it's also ASLE data... We used to talk about data from other associations, but ASLE, the Basque Association of Labour Societies, says that by 2020 there will be a thousand labour societies. He was saying that recently in one of his reports. Well, that's very important, that in addition to the labor societies we already know that they get very well into this factor of competitiveness, that factor of industrial development. We have also been able to detect that there is a possibility, as a result of this analysis of how the sector is doing, how it is evolving, how it is working... We also saw this in the last report of the Basque Observatory of Social Economy, but we have been able to detect that there is a possibility of improving the composition of the board of directors of SPRI, the composition of the board of directors of the Society for Competitive Transformation. We have also seen that there could be an absence, a gap, and in that regard we have put forward the initiative that I am presenting to you. Also, to remember, as I did with teaching cooperatives before, we also have to remember what the Society for Competitive Transformation, SPRI, is. The SPRI group is the business development agency of the Basque Government with the aim of giving service to the business fabric of Euskadi. It aims to give support and impetus to Basque companies, whatever their size, sector and situation, something that connects perfectly with cooperative models or models of working societies, or with small cooperative society... That is, large dimensions (we know social economy experiences big, powerful), and small. That is, that here the size, the sector and the situation in relation to the social economy and with the enterprises and with the initiatives of entrepreneurs in social economy is diverse and varied, so they have perfect place in what has to be the analysis developed by the Society for Competitive Transformation. What vision does SPRI have? To be a reference in Europe, as a public institution for the competitive transformation of the business fabric. Well, it also has something to do with cooperative experiences or working societies working on this land linked to innovation, job creation, industrial production, economic growth. SPRI Group mission? To support, promote and contribute to the competitive improvement of Basque companies, in collaboration with the generation of wealth in Euskadi and the improvement of the well-being of their citizens through sustainable human development, within the framework of the economic promotion policy of the Basque Government. Something that in an essential way is also linked to what we have seen, an important, powerful experience that has endured the crisis well and that of course needs to be developed. Let us now also hope that those numbers, those magnitudes in relation to the implementation, with the production of social economy enterprises, will grow in a period of absence of crisis. In this sense, it also links the vocation of SPRI, its vision regarding companies and its mission in supporting and promoting the improvement of the competitiveness of Basque companies. But, in view of the board of directors, we have detected that the board of directors of SPRI has its representatives of the Basque Government, of the department, of the addresses of the Basque Government (Industrial Development, Technology, Internationalization...), has its representatives of the outside parliaments, has its representatives of Kutxabank, has its representatives of Confebask, has its representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, of the Network of Technological Parks of Euskadi, of Elkargi... But we have seen and detected the absence of a representative of the social economy as a business and industrial factor of dynamism, innovation, internationalization, those issues to which SPRI is dedicated. And in that sense, and in order not to extend me much further, we have presented the proposal of law that you all know, amending Law 5/1981, of 10 June, on the Creation of the Society for Industrial Promotion and Conversion (now called Society for Competitive Transformation). At the time the Plenary of the Basque Parliament, in a session held on 15 October 2010, adopted a non-legislative proposal concerning the participation of the... in that case we call it cooperative, but, well, we extend it to the whole social economy, once after 2010, in 2011, by law of the Congress of Deputies, the social economy has already been defined. The following was said: "The Basque Parliament, appreciating in a very positive way the contribution of Basque co-operativeism to the productive and socio-economic fabric of the Basque economy, urges Basque public institutions to deepen the recognition of the cooperative movement and of the social economy in general, taking the necessary steps to achieve its presence in the bodies and institutions that articulate social and economic policies in Basque." Well, the SPRI is also the right place for the representative, the representative, the person who has to be, in relation to the dialogue with the social economy movement, so it is time to address those issues that we have already described before what SPRI means. We are talking that the implementation, influence and involvement of the social economy in the industrial fabric of Euskadi is unquestionable. There's the data, I'm not going to repeat it, we've used it many times. Here are the reports of the OVES, the reports of the associations themselves, of Konfekoop, of Erkide... In other words, there are data on the importance of the social economy or cooperatives, or of the social economy (depends on who makes those reports), in the business fabric, in the Basque industrial fabric. I say again, it's unquestionable. It is an organized economic framework, it is a strategic economic framework, it is an economic framework that sometimes also has problems and has setbacks, but in any case it is a framework that objectively walks with firm steps in relation to economic development, with umbrellas as well as many important issues of what we are talking about. With the umbrella, in many successful aspects, of internationalization – many are the experiences, and you know them – of the social sense of economic production, the fundamental element that we cannot forget, of that corporate social responsibility that of course is perfectly intertwined..., always improveable, but also intertwined with the social economy, and with the university as a fundamental element, also having that issue on the table and being perfectly connected the social economy with the university, and in our case with the three universities. We need to see how the social economy is linked to the University of the Basque Country through the GEZKI Institute, is linked to the University of Deusto through the Institute of Cooperative Law of the University of Deusto, and is linked to the University of Mondragon. In this sense, there is even more factor, grey substance to contribute to SPRI's own board of directors. Well, the data on what cooperatives represent (about 6% of GDP) are relevant data from the Basque Autonomous Community, and it is reasonable then, from our point of view, and that is why we have proposed it, that the Basque Government appoint a representative of the social economy on the board of directors of the Society for Competitive Transformation. And that is why we have tabled the reform, in a single article, of Article 6 of Law 5/1981 of SPRI. We say that it is appointed by the Basque Government..., that the members of the board of directors of the management company corresponding to the share of the share capital subscribed by the Autonomous Community will be appointed, or, if necessary, revoked, by the government on the proposal of the owner of the Department of Industry, giving account of the same to the Committee on Economy, Finance and Budgets of this House, and among the members of the board of directors will include a representative of the social economy. We were also talking, in what is the proposal to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u14	Mr. Barrio... Please be quiet. There's so much noise. Please, quiet... Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u15	Thank you, President. For the sake of its purposes we asked – but it is a question of debate; the important thing is the appointment of this member of the social economy –..., we spoke of an advisory committee composed of people of recognized credit and professional capacity, after notification to Parliament. That is an issue that we included as an element of reflection, which was well intertwined, but, well, it will be possible to discuss in the development of this initiative. We have also seen the favourable approach, in general terms, on the part of the Government, and we appreciate that favourable approach. There are some objections – we will see them in the legislative development, in the legislative process – some objections that we can talk about, which we can certainly negotiate in that legislative process, because I think it will be easy to find some close position if we achieve the objective of representation. In other words, some objections are already recognised in relation to Confebask, in relation to the industrial policies currently being developed by SPRI... Of course, they are not insurmountable objections; on the contrary, I believe they are consolidated if we negotiate well in relation to that representation. And the third of the points and objections was that the Society's advice for Competitive Transformation should be as practical and operational as possible. That's no objection. The Government must be told that this is not an objection. We are asking for that, to be as practical, as operational as possible, and therefore we think that if there are elements of authority that complement the possibility of the decision, the possibility of consultation, of advising the Government, the possibility of decisions on industrial policy, that board of directors will certainly be more dynamic. That is why the dynamism of the social economy is recognized, and that is why we want to transfer it to that reform of the law of the SPRI society. In that connection, a debate was opened on the advisory committee attached to it. We don't have any inconvenience. What is important to us is representation in what I have tried to justify in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. As no one has to participate in the reverse shift, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning. The Basque Socialists will vote in favour of the proposed law amending Law 5/1981 of 10 June on the creation of the Society for Industrial Promotion and Conversion. First, because we understand that it is a requirement of the social economy itself and that it is consistent with the agreement we adopted in this House on 15 October 2010, an agreement calling on Basque public institutions to deepen the recognition of the Basque cooperative movement and of the social economy in general, taking the necessary steps to achieve their presence in the bodies and institutions that articulate the social and economic policies of Euskadi. Secondly, we are going to vote in favour because the debate in the presentation will adjust the terms of the amendment to that law. But in this first instance the Basque socialists do intend to make clear the characteristics of the Basque social economy with regard to the general economy, in the main areas of intervention of the Society for Competitive Transformation. Because, while it is true that SPRI was established in 1981 as one of the main instruments through which the Basque Government developed industrial policy mainly in relation to the promotion and conversion of Basque industry, in order to achieve this sufficient degree of competitiveness, diversification and technology for the maintenance and creation of employment, it is no less true that there are three main characteristics of the Basque social economy which are of particular interest in relation to the actions of the Society for Competitive Transformation, such as: Innovation as a basic pillar of competitiveness. The innovation bet is a risk and a comparatively more consolidated bet among the enterprises of the social economy than in the whole of the Basque economy: from 2012 to 2014 the proportion of the enterprise group attached to the social economy that carried out innovation activities amounted to 4.6 percentage points above the overall average of the Basque enterprises. Innovation has a positive effect on employment which is similar in the social economy and in the whole of the economic system of Euskadi, and innovative action is comparatively more favourable in the employment of the social economy, and in particular with regard to more skilled employment. Another important feature is that, despite the difficulties faced by invoicing and employment, the degree of openness to external markets continues to be a clear bet on the part of the corporate fabric of the social economy. Therefore, in 2014 65,2 % of the turnover is associated with export, 5,5 percentage points above 59,7 % of this opening ratio in 2012. The biggest advance since 2004. As far as employment is concerned, it highlights the greater capacity of the social economy to generate relative employment per unit of product compared to the whole of the Basque industrial fabric. That is why we Socialists believe that with the legal change, in the terms we are able to agree and consensus, we will be doing a new exercise of positive value for the contribution of Basque co-operativeism, of the social economy, to the productive and socio-economic fabric of Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u19	Good morning, everyone. The position of the Elkarrekin Podemos Group is in favour of the initiative put forward by the People's Group, and I would like to begin the explanation of vote by referring to the influence that the crisis has had on the development of the social economy. In the world of psychology it is often said that crises have a double side: on the one hand, in their negative face, they cause the collapse of existing structures, established beliefs and values rooted during a time; but in their positive face the crises facilitate catharsis, the rupture with obsolete structures, the emergence of new horizons, and the transit to other values. The crisis we've suffered in economics in the last decade has changed our mind. We've noticed that there hasn't been only financial crisis. It's a systematic crisis, the beginning of the fall of capitalism. And at the same time the values of capitalism which he brought us are shaken: individualism, to acquire a fortune above everything and above everything, to raise one's self at the neck of others. In this catharsis of the economic crisis many people have turned their gaze to other realities, to other ways of living, of consuming and of working; to a world that remained eclipsed and hidden in the face of the brightness of capitalist opulence, of infinite enrichment as a way of life, and of individual success above any other consideration. And so we have discovered that here, also in our own land, there are companies without entrepreneurs, but equally capable of generating wealth and employment; initiatives capable of putting people and collective social purpose above economic results; initiatives that know how to organize themselves in a more autonomous and transparent way, more democratic and participatory. Today there are more and more companies that are part of what has been called the social economy, called cooperatives, labour companies, collaborative networks or non-profit associations. At present, the social economy is increasingly present in a wide range of areas that directly form the productive fabric of Euskadi, such as industry, innovation, construction, transport, services and agriculture. It is only for this reason that it is worth supporting this proposal for a law which is presented today by the People's Group, which, in our view, is even cut short by proposing the entry of a single representative of the social economy into the SPRI Board of Directors. In fact, we believe that the disparate reality of the social economy demands today a more complete and plural presence, not only in the SPRI, but in all institutional areas where issues related to the productive economy, economic development or labour relations are addressed. After all, we must give to the solidary socialonomy what is worth looking at the future, not as a miniature model, but as an alternative economic model, in which, above other interests, economic activity gives precedence to the people and the permanent development of society. Because for the future our society needs a new business model: companies that implement policies, models and management tools that make it possible to take advantage of the human development of their members; that regulate the participation of workers, both in management and in capital and in the distribution of results. We need a humanist business model that combines job creation and wealth with local development, equal opportunities for women and men, social cohesion, the inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion, the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, or the care economy. In short, for Elkarrekin We know the social economy is not just an economic agent anymore. And perhaps in this approach the essential difference between us lies in the role that each group believes must play in the social economy. Because, while its potential for creating and promoting employment is very important, social and solidarity economy enterprises are today a clear example of how economic rationality and social progress are compatible, how business efficiency can coexist with social responsibility, and how crises can be overcome with another paradigm that permeates economic and social relations. How, in short, another way of doing business is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u20	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u21	Thank you, and good morning to all. Our vote will be favourable, because it is very obvious to us that the leading role of police in the Esscal economy is to us. It is present in various sectors of society, and, of course, even in the industrial profession. There are several companies which represent social phenomena, and especially co-operative, so that they must be represented in an organization which considers the promotion and modification of the euscal industry. It appears on SPRI's Web page that the mission of the organization is to protect and encourage and encourage the competition of the euphorans, to promote and encourage them, by making them rich by improving the level of Eukadin and the welfare of the citizens, and strengthening the permanent human development. And my question is: Aren't these euscal companies a great part of the Building and Loan? Isn't it interesting to get that mission, even know the view of the cooperatives? Isn't it interesting to avoid the classic capitalist type that puts people to the centre of the economic system, that is to say, to hear SPRIL, the voice of a social economy with another economic model? Passa den martxoaren 23an Legebiltzar honetan gizarte-ekonomiaren onurak jarri genituen denok mahai gainean, éta eztabaida horretan esan nuen where zegoela gizarte-ekonomiaren berezitasunak goraipatzea, éta gehitu nuen: "Social economy is not anecdotal, it is an active agent, and as such it must be treated in all fields". There is a circle here that recognizes the active role of society in our society and in our economy. For Euskal Herria Bildu there is no doubt that the social economy is fundamental in our society, in the development of our country, and as such must be recognized. But I said it a few weeks ago: the social economy sector does not need pats on the back telling it how interesting it is to bet on employment or people, or how much it values its principles of business management. It cannot be that we are so proud of the strength and implementation of the social economy in our country and, at the same time, the Government is allowing it to be classified as a "associationist collective" in an attempt to minimize its entity. Let's treat them as they are, active agents of the Basque economy. In the field of work of the SPRI there are many enterprises of social economy, cooperatives that have been developing their work in the industrial sector for years. Is it not interesting your point of view, your experience, to fulfill the objectives of SPRI? Would it not be interesting for these companies to view the defence and job creation as part of the process of combating unemployment, which is, according to Law 5/1981, the priority objective of SPRI? Some data: 15 own research centres, 20 European R & D collaboration projects, 32,925 jobs, and more than €5 billion in sales. Would you take into account the opinion and experience of an industrial group with these figures when, for example, designing policies for the promotion of research and development projects, or for the promotion of joint actions and cooperation between companies? I'm sure you do. For they are figures of a business group, of a cooperative group that today cannot contribute anything directly to SPRI, because on its board of directors there is no one who represents it. When I read the government's opinion about this legal proposal, I must say I was surprised. "Confebas collects in himself the greatest number of corporations," the government says. Is that measured? Not that I know of, although several social authors have insisted upon it. "The work of comparison required by these fans is well supported with his presence: The Confebaska, the trade chamber and the union, the government follows. Does Confebask represent co-operatives? Does Confebask lead the view of social astronomy to SPRIA and trade chambers to do that? You have social officers, you must ask them their representatives. And the last sentence of the government: "An exception to a certain group of humanities like that would mean various charges of the same sense as the various groups of sectors, country, etc.." In truth, this last phrase reveals ignorance. It is clear, therefore, that the Basque Country has the characteristics of society in the pretty things it is necessary to encourage SPRI. They will add from their reality, from its experience, an exaggerated point of view to the development of the Euscal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u23	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. The truth is, under the circumstances, I am going to explain a vote that we have not yet cast. Good. Although the industrial policies which the Society for Competitive Transformation (SPRI) intends to develop and which are being developed, more specifically, to promote the development and competitiveness of the business fabric regardless of its legal form, while the active policies for the promotion of the social economy correspond more to the scope of the Department of Labour and Justice, more specifically to its Directorate of Social Economy; although Confebask, which is part of the Board of Directors of SPRI, joins the largest number of companies in Euskadi that constitute the target public of the industrial policy instruments which SPRI applies; although the contrast work required of the external agents in the Board of Directors of SPRI is sufficiently guaranteed with the presence of Confebask, together with chambers of commerce and with Elkargi, and although the Board of Directors of SPRI must be as practical and operational as possible, which assumes that it has been possible to contain its dimension to the strictly possible and yet representative order; although making an exception with a specific collective administration could generate logical demand in the same sense as other associations of a sectoral or territorial character; even though this Parliament has been operating since 1981 and this Parliament has not been able to adopt any form of its own ex-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-or-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the It is not a question of not appreciating the social economy as a fundamental value of Euskadi's economic development; it is not a question of not recognizing in its fair value the social economy as a whole, and the cooperative movement in particular, for its contributions to this country's productive fabric, for its commitment to creating jobs and wealth for Euskadi. It is that, if a public society such as SPRI has been operating for thirty-six years, in a very successful way, by the way, and no one in these thirty-six years has meant anything about changes in its council or its way of being; it is that, if neither the social economy has undergone substantial changes during these thirty-six years of SPRI's existence, nor has it demanded special attention to occupy a seat on the SPRI's Board of Directors, because, in fact, all this led us to initially not find any particular meaning to a modification that no one had even suggested in thirty-six years and that, on the subject of the normalized functioning of the SPRI itself, it had not even been thought to extend a council that works so well normalized. However, at the request of the People's Group, and listened to part of the social economy, in particular the Confederation of Cooperatives of Euskadi, which showed its agreement to participate in such a council, we are not going to be the ones to oppose it. In short, even if it reaches thirty-six years after we have not questioned the normal functioning of its organization and optimal results, we will vote that yes to be able to incorporate the social economy into the Board of Directors of SPRI. And, in front of Prevert's phrase that "it's never too late to do anything," the saying that "it's never too late if the bliss is good." And in any case, I'll see you in the paper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Third point in theme list: "The legal proposition made together by the parliamentary Podemos, in order to obtain additional entries from the Basque Government by means of the torrents above the foru-heaps. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." It's in the document where you've been handed over the government's judgment. So just together Podemos. Someone else wants to participate in the next round... ? Well, together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Under you, chief of staff, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. This time we have brought into this parliament a legal proposition concerning the acquisition of additional entrances to Main of the Basque Government by means of the torrents of the foru-certs. We've been talking about this many weeks now, with the chairman of the Sub-Azu, and about the week's meeting or the press that passed. It is essential for our community to talk about the tax system, to do it gracefully and to do it under the umbrella of the popular and the solidarity and social justice. Others, on the other hand, prefer to look at the specter of the tax system, as if the matter were to be solved alone, sometimes covering their eyes like children with that point of innocence. But it may be too late tomorrow. He said that for today's plenary we were bringing our bill on additional income for the General Treasury of the Basque Country. We have been talking about this proposal for weeks, both with Councillor Azpiazu and in the plenary last Thursday, or spreading our fiscal policies to the public. For our parliamentary group it is essential to talk about the tax system, and to do so under the umbrella of country commitment, solidarity and social justice. However, as I said, there are others who prefer to go from dots to the so feared ghost of tax reform, as if the problem of an adequate income floor were solved by itself, and, while sometimes emulate boys and girls, who with that point of innocence cover their eyes with their hands. However, you have long since ceased to be boys and girls. Even before this House was aware of the budget bill, Mr Azpiazu had already rushed to make two issues clear in the press. The first, he introduced us to the name Sin Holguras. The second, that not everything is as beautiful as it is painted, and that the Basque Government maintains an unfair management of the crisis, nowadays renamed as "income insufficiency". And so the weeks have passed, between terrifying neo-liberal alliances and income shortfalls, and always, always, without laziness. We agree with the description of the government's income shortfall problem, but we are tired of the fact that this debate, this diagnosis, is intentionally not translated into measures to resolve it. We believe that it is time to put the casket to the cat of tax reform, and from Elkarrekin We have done so by means of this bill in this very Parliament. It is time to leave behind months of much noise and few nuts. It is time for them to stop the loss of income and for us to discuss concrete, immediate and feasible solutions. That is why our parliamentary group has put forward a concrete solution. A solution that consists of a rise of some taxes through surcharges to tax real estate speculators, renters, large estates, the profits of big entrepreneurs and gambling. An immediate solution, which would start to generate revenue for the Basque Government as early as this year 2017. And it is also a feasible solution, because the law itself recognizes this power to the Basque Parliament, apart from what the deputies say. Faced with empty words, grandiose speeches and floral games in those past budget negotiations, we believe that out of responsibility, out of respect for the citizenry and out of commitment to the people who are going through the worst, the political parties have an obligation to put solutions on the table. It is urgent to do so now, and that is why we did not see fit to wait any longer for a solution to the problem. The Law on the Regulatory Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country, which dates from 1983, and was amended in 1988, 1997 and 2015, confers on the Basque Parliament the competence to establish surcharges, inter alia, on taxes such as the IRPF, property tax, or inheritances and donations, to cite some examples. In fact, article 35 of this law states that the Basque Parliament may impose surcharges on these taxes through legislation to that effect. And with regard to that article, which gives the Basque Parliament competence to do so, nothing more or less, we have recorded this proposal for a law which we are debating here today. And no, we are not defending an unprecedented measure today. Don't get confused. Article 35 was already used in 1983 by the then lehendakari Carlos Garaikoetxea, to cover the extraordinary expenses of the floods of that year. Much more recently, in 2012 it was the socialist lehendakari Patxi López who intended to use this formula to increase the collection. But, even more so, in 2014 Juan María Aburto himself, today Mayor of Bilbao but at that time advisor to the Basque Government, proposed to use this formula of surcharges to support social spending. This is therefore a legal formula which has already been used on one occasion and which has been dealt with on several occasions by governments of both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. We consider it appropriate to introduce this bill in order to be able to impose more expansive and fair taxes, which would give a better response to citizens and put citizens, people, at the centre, through policies based on social justice. Establish social justice as a principle for spending, but also as an indispensable principle in income. These surcharges would not reduce the income of the historic territories, and would allow for an increase in the resources of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. It would allow us to do so at a time when, according to the statements of the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance when he appeared in the committee, he was expressly influencing the need to collect more in a particularly tight and unhindered time. Mr Azpiazu has also pointed out that income shortfall as a cause for not being able to meet social needs or improve public services. However, we are faced with a Government approach to our proposed law that we sincerely fail to fully understand. Points 1 and 2 of the report argue that fiscal policy must take account of the establishment of an equitable, progressive, supportive, sufficient and efficient tax system, ensuring an optimal balance between public revenue and expenditure, but allowing for a redistribution of burdens between taxpayers and taxpayers. Moreover, it must be at the service of economic growth, job creation and solidarity. In spite of the rhetoric put forward by the Government so far, we do believe that fiscal policy should be an instrument for economic development and the generation of quality jobs, and this is achieved from two perspectives from our point of view. On the one hand, with redistributive action, to transfer resources from those who have the most, and accumulate them often idlely, so that they can be directed to the objectives of enhancing economic activity, employment or welfare and social protection systems. On the other hand, from the perspective of spending. Tax policy has a multiplier effect on enhancing economic development through the wages, pensions and benefits that sustain consumption. For example, spending on creating public employment in health care or education is synonymous with expanding the pay base of the Basque economy, which will generate activity and more employment, than with a tax reform like what is being proposed it would be detracting resources from those who treasure, accumulate or invest in financial or real estate markets that do not generate any kind of social utility. However, neoliberal policies, based on austerity and cuts in southern Europe, have had a daunting effect on society, as has already been demonstrated over the past few hard years, damaging and aggravating the situation of the most vulnerable classes, while the richest people saw their fortunes multiply. Therefore, those who are opposed to increasing taxes in order to be able to orient them to an expenditure that precisely allows to generate growth in reality are not defending the interests of the majority of Basque society, but the interests of a wealthy and able minority. The mantra of business competitiveness is another of those usually articulated to defend the specific interests of economic and financial elites and to oppose the rise of taxes on large enterprises. Costs and prices are not the only factors of competitiveness, or often the main ones, in the same way that corporate tax costs do not constitute the main part of their costs and do not determine their competitiveness. We can see how only four countries in Europe have a lower tax burden than Euskadi, and it is not precisely the most competitive or the fastest growing countries that create the highest quality jobs. They are exactly Greece, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Slovakia. Is this the model we're chasing? I don't think so. I think we should look further and converge with the locomotives in Europe, not with the last wagon. Point 3 of the Government's approach argues, inter alia, that Euskadi requires a harmonised tax system that guarantees equivalent global pressure on all Basque citizens. Of course, one of the pillars of neoliberalism: regressive tax systems, where indirect taxes are imposed and economic capacity is not progressively graved. Our parliamentary group believes that fiscal pressure should not be equivalent in all Basque citizens, and that the most powerful should have greater fiscal pressure. In terms of territories, we do believe that it should be coordinated and harmonized. That is why we propose that the surcharges should be applied in the three territories, no more or less. Paragraph 4 of the Government's same criterion argues that any change in tax matters should be preceded by the corresponding evaluation of the previous reform, which entered into force, if I may recall, in 2014. In the absence of specific reports or studies that correctly capture the effects of a tax reform independently of the effect of the economic cycle and the economic situation, we believe that the best assessment of fiscal policy is to analyse the evolution of collection data, and to bring them into line with the data of economic and business developments. The Government has the opportunity, at the meetings of the Basque Finance Council, to carry out an assessment of the reasons for the collection of more or less, and however, no assessment is made a priori on the reasons for the deviations and the lesser collection. Nor of tangential aspects, such as tax avoidance, legal or paralegal formulas to reduce tax payment or actions carried out in 2016 to reduce tax fraud and its economic and financial impact on income; analysis and valuation that should be systematically linked to the analysis of revenue developments. However, the tax reform has already been in place for three years, in which we believe there has been enough time for its evaluation. Point 5 of the criterion argues that in Euskadi only this possibility of surcharge has been used once. It was in the transitory and very exceptional circumstances resulting from the high expenditure in the 1983 floods, extraordinary conditions which do not now occur. This is a lie, this argument is a lie. This argument made by the Government is not true, as the surcharge on the play rate has been in effect for 13 years and remains in force. Point 6 of the Government's approach argues that imposing surcharges in a generalized and unilateral manner on foreign taxes is contradictory to our model. For, ladies and gentlemen, at the plenary session of 22 June 1983, when Councillor Uriarte Santamarina presented on behalf of the Basque Government the draft law on computer principles of the General Treasury of the Basque Country, he said, and I quote textually in order not to distort his words: "In our country the Statute itself, unlike other autonomous communities, recognizes the competent institutions of the most extensive historical territories with tax powers on the basis of the Economic Concert, which introduced at this point an aspect of singular difficulty in defining competences on the one hand of this Parliament, which did not interfere in those which obviously correspond to the State in some aspects of the tax system, and on the other hand those which correspond to the historical territories in matters of its competence on the basis of the Economic Concert". And he said, "I think regulation is well thought out and the distribution of powers of this tax authority is one of the achievements of this law." Frankly, as a result of those words of the councillor, I understand that the surcharges, according to the councillor himself of Finance and Economics, are one of the achievements of the Law of Computer Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country, an achievement of tax power. An achievement that has been cornered for decades and which today is being denied: tax power to have autonomy and financial sufficiency, precisely what you, Mr Azpiazu, say you lack. That is why we do not understand why the Basque Government is arguing today that setting charges is contradictory to our model. Therefore – and I am finalising – from our parliamentary group we put on the table a feasible, legal, very concrete alternative, which has already been carried out on some occasion and which could bring in a total of 215 million euros of additional revenue. However, we put it so that the collection effects would not be immediate. This year 2017 would only start to yield revenue surcharges on large estates, on sales of properties that are not habitual housing, and on the game. Of these three, a figure of around EUR 115 million would be reached. For example, to give us an idea of what this figure implies, matching the income guarantee income to the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage has an impact of 35 million euros, a measure that citizens have been demanding as necessary. And, from here, I would not like to miss the opportunity to send all the support, on behalf of Elkarrekin Podemos, to the comrades and the companion who have already been on hunger strike for fourteen days fighting for the rights of all. Badakizue zuekin gaudela eta denon elkartasun media lortuk dugula justice ahitzea eta Gobernu honoren murrizketak gelditzea, zuen gaurko borroka gizzarte guztiaren eskubideak bermatzeko izan dadin. The rest of the charges would report revenues of another 100 million euros in 2018. To understand the magnitude of this figure of 215 million euros, it could be compared with the increase that the Government has planned for this year, which is 126 million euros, and has done so by mortgageing all Basque citizens through the increase in gross debt. Our proposal, however, represents a very relevant source of extra own income to deal with immediate problems. The goal is to be able to sustain the social investment and job creation that Euskadi needs, and to make that investment paid for by the people who have the most, carrying the profits of the big companies, the big estates, renters, real estate speculators and the game. Because we and we do not want or understand a country that treats its most vulnerable citizens unfairly. For social justice, we are increasing the current regressivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. On the other hand, who's going to participate? Popular parties? Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bollain, I must admit to you that you are ready to bring this bill that you have brought to us. Ready, or let's say lists, with the permission of the Bureau, which has passed it to something that we do not think should have passed through the Bureau. You, as you wanted to raise taxes, and today you have told us here repeatedly, and as you know that we have no competence in this Parliament, you have said: "We have found the surcharges. And we're going to apply the surcharges." But the surcharges, even in the example you gave us from the year 83, the floods, the surcharges on any tax (multiples), are on the quota. They're about the fee to pay. Don't charge the guys. As I want to raise the guy but I can't raise the guy, I'm gonna call him a surcharge and then I'm gonna raise the tax guys. That's cheating on the loner, and you know it, and we know it. And, therefore, you have come here with a proposal of law saying "With this we can collect more," when you know that you are cheating on the lonely, that this cannot be done. And since you can't raise the tax rates, then, I'm calling you a surcharge to raise the tax rates. And just for this reason, because it violates the Economic Concert, the Statute of Autonomy, those powers that you cited from that counselor when you said what were the competences of one or the other, even the additional provision of the Constitution that protects the historical rights of the outside territories, that would suffice to say to you "Hey, traps don't do us", right?, we would vote against, and point. But I want to remind you... And I am going to get into what you propose. Because you say one thing that looks very good and that is very pretty, but then you always pose the opposite. You talk about insufficient income. Or excessive expenses! Or have you not tabled an amendment reducing expenditure in several departments? Maybe there's excessive spending! He tells us: "Other advisors and other governments set themselves in their day to make surcharges." Here there has been a lot of advisors who have had many occurrences, but then they have never come to the House. This occurrence of yours is, it's the first time it's come. And statements of the occurrences of counselors we have several, of several parties and of several groups. Now, you guys, what are you really proposing? He tells us, "To collect more taxes, let's raise this." And then he says, "We want big companies to pay more." That's what you told us. And then, he says, "an additional 2 % charge will be applied to the general rate of the tax of the outside corporate tax rules", i.e. of all companies. And I have to remind you here, because you do know that those big companies that you say are listed under state law. Another thing is that they collect. And here, here, the ones that are subject to the corporate tax rate (which, by the way, we have the highest in all of Spain) are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. To these micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized, you increase the additional 2% of the general rate, which we already have the highest in Spain. Not the big ones. That's why I'm telling you that they're making a speech here, but then the reality of what they pose is another. Then he says, "We're against the renters." And I guess that's why, in Article 2, "Save charge, 20% increase." Of all the savings. This is what you propose: to everyone, renters and non-rentists. Save money, it doesn't matter if it's much, little or nothing. Because here your mouth is filled, you speak of progressiveness, and I do not see your progressiveness in any of the proposals, not even in this one. And I have to tell you that besides us... It is the opposite of ours: we believe that saving must be encouraged; saving is good. It's good. The opposite is true of you, who do not know if you follow the wandering Dutchman that there is for Europe and who says that the countries of the South spend money on whatever it is. Well, I don't know if your proposal is "you don't have to save and you have to spend it on anything." Well, we understand that no, that's also bad. It's bad for all citizens. But, going back to business, you are also one of those who say that it is that in corporation tax you collect less. Listen, recently, the other day without going any further, the data came out of the balance of companies in the Basque Country that have gone to other autonomous communities. Over sixty, that's the negative balance we have. They've basically gone to Madrid. Of course, we collect less. That is the balance in number of companies, but the balance of the companies of the Basque Country that have gone to Madrid that have invoiced more than 350 million euros we compensate it with companies that have come to the Basque Country that do not invoice 15 million euros. Why do you think some Basque companies have preferred to go to Madrid? Why do they pay more, or why do they pay less? Do those companies create jobs here, or do they create it there? Do those companies now pay taxes here, or do they pay there? And you propose, "We're going to raise those SMEs, we're going to raise corporate tax a little more," because this competitiveness thing is a fable that we've invented some because we don't want to raise taxes to big companies. That's his speech, and what he told us here today. Successions and donations, we are going to increase the additional 6% to the inheritances from parents to children. The rest, no. Maybe they're the richest in the place, and then we're gonna get the guy up to... And it also doesn't matter what the scale or whatever it is... I'm telling you, your progressivity shines through your absence. And then you have the anti-speculator measure that you told us, which is Article 4, which is the surcharge on property transfers other than usual housing. And I suppose, as the tax on documented legal acts came together in the Law of Computer Principles, but apparently they don't know they're different, they've mixed it up. Total, which increase the rate of 2% to all documented legal acts, is equal if it is for housing, if it is not for housing... It doesn't matter what writing, whatever it is. Whatever it is. Apart from the fact that, in the end, what they charge for housing is the purchase of the second home. It must be the superspeculators who aspire to be able to buy a second home, but don't worry: if you already charge the savings at first, few people will be able to speculate in that way. Although for social housing speculators we already know in their group some phenomenon, which is able to enter more than 30,000 euros in six months without paying the housing, but, well. And then the last one, which is the surcharge on gambling activities, you tell us, consists of an additional 10% of the net fee (here you do talk about the fee, it surprised me)..., the net fee to pay. And I'm going to tell you the following about this tax, because it was here that it was a socialist tax advisor who brought to this House a proposal to lower the type, which we have competence (possibly, here we have competence to lower the type or to go up to the type), the type that charges the activity of the game. And when we ask him what he was due to – because, man, it's not exactly a tax that we understand we have to go down, but maybe the opposite, but good thing – but when he came to explain it to us the Socialist Party's Finance Advisor told us that it was that the sector was going so badly, it was collecting so little, that the guy had to go down in order to have more income. And this tax advisor was from the Socialist Party. Listen, and we listened to him and supported him, because maybe it turns out that when the guys went down, they were getting more. And so, when I tell you that you say a few things and you pose the opposite... Because you are putting the opposite of what the Socialist Finance Advisor told us that we had to do to collect more. You do the opposite. You do the opposite. Therefore, I repeat that, in the end, it is very good to come out here to talk about the speech of defending everyone, of going against speculators and big companies, but in your proposal that does not come here. You guys are going against everybody. And finally I have to tell you one thing. You say, "No, this will not reduce the income of the historical territories." Hey, 'cause you say it! Because if more companies pay corporation tax, they obviously lower the income of historic territories; if you tax savings here, then savers will save somewhere else or go somewhere else to save, and the income of outland haciendas will be reduced, and that will affect municipalities and parliaments. Of course it does! Man, what you can't tell me is that your model isn't that of Greece. The model of Podemos, as far as I remember, from his birth, with Mr Tsipras at the front, is the Greek. That is their model, and they intend to move us to the rest of the European countries. That and the Venezuelan, who are his two referents! Of course, they are the political referents outside of here that you have, that you have endorsed and that you have defended. Now don't tell me your model isn't the Greek! Of course his model is the Greek, and they've defended him! Now, we'll be delighted that you've stopped being your model, focus a little and put forward proposals on taxation..., that the good intention of "we're going to collect more" can translate into less collection, and at best they focus on taxation, in addition to collecting so that administrations can bear the expenses they have and their obligations, serves to improve people's economy and quality of life, and that jobs can be created. And the more people there are contributing and paying for the IRPF and for companies, and the more profits they have the more they pay – because we do have a progressive tax system that we have, so you haven't touched it before – you'll get more, which is what's always happened. And taxation must be directed at that: to promote the growth of society and the growth of businesses, and to create more jobs and higher quality. Therefore, in the form and in the substance, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. No one else should be involved... So, as to the replica, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u29	Thank you again, ma'am. It is surprising that you have forgotten to mention Cuba, Mr Damborenea. Well, you've told me here that... It has to be made clear, too, that corporate tax is about profits, and that it is the large companies that declare profits, as stated in the latest ELA report mainly. Raising 2% obviously impacts large companies with large holes and tax costs, and not micro-enterprises, as you have stressed. Tax expenditure for corporate tax in 2017 is expected to be EUR 448 million. Companies do not go for more taxes, Mr Damborenea, just as it does not affect competitiveness. So it is clear that the proposal of the People's Party in this case is that companies do not pay. Well, well, that's your proposal and that's the sense that your tax policies are carrying and that, as you say, liberals are defending. But companies don't go for more taxes! We have clear cases: Denmark, 46.8% pressure. We have cases like Finland, 30.5 per cent; Sweden, 38.3 per cent. Euskadi, tax pressure, 20.6. We have another case like Iceland, 33.8%. There you came out of the crisis by imprisoning your bankers; here, however, thanks to you and with everyone's money, we rescued banks like Bankia, with more than 22 billion euros. And on the issue of taxes, well, I would stress once again, Patxi López in the socialist government said that the Basque government explained to the media that in certain circumstances the Basque Parliament can approve surcharges on some taxes, including the IRPF, and the lehendakari Patxi López explained that his cabinet was studying the possibilities it has for through Parliament, and according to the proposal of the central government to raise the IRPF, to intervene in the revenues, not only in expenses, of public administrations via surcharges. Juan María Aburto himself said in 2014 that he advocated a tax reform that generates more resources for the social protection system, and proposed a tax surcharge to meet the dependency. More recently, Mr Azpiazu stressed that the Basque administrations must put in place – and I quote in text – "all the instruments we have in our hands in the area of taxation, in order to increase collection". And that considering, as I said before (you used a game of words), that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is no greater than in Spain and is less than in Europe, one might think that there is a way to do something. And without a doubt, the way to do something immediate, feasible and legal is to apply surcharges to taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. To answer, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u31	Mr Bollain, I did not quote Cuba because I did not know that it was one of your references too. Yes, I did know about Iran. [[Barres]] But, come on, as a dungeon of virtues and individual and collective freedoms... Cuba did not know this, but for the next one I will also take it into account, which is one of its great references for people to live fantastically, especially indigenous people. You tell me about the tax pressure and corporate tax. Let's see, the tax pressure is on all tax collection, not just corporate tax. And you tell me that what you want is for the big companies to declare more, which are the ones that have tax expenditures, and I repeat that your proposal is not that, that you don't tell me one thing here and then you put the opposite to me. Its proposal is to raise the corporate tax rate to Basque SMEs, which, by the way, do not have tax costs (yes, more than 75% do not have tax costs), and it is those which pay in accordance with the external rules. Yes, because the big ones, even if they pay here, pay according to the rules of the state. If not, read the Economic Concert. Okay? And what you say about the big companies I told you a month ago: that they support Cristóbal Montoro when I put him there at the Congress of Deputies, which is the one who raised him. Not you, Mr. Montoro proposed. But back him up, back him up. Look, you have the opportunity, if you are so concerned, to support the General State Budgets that are being processed now. And he tells me that companies don't go for taxes. Hey, why do you think that in Ireland in the last ten years almost all multinationals have been installed, including some Spanish, or Catalan if you prefer (very independent, but they moved the home from Barcelona to Dublin last year)? Why do you think they did that? Because in Ireland you live better, you're going to sell more, you're going to bill more? Or did they do it for a tax issue? I ask you the question because, of course, if it's not about taxes, I guess you have some other reason, or maybe it's because they really like the countryside and the sheep that graze there in Ireland, and then they've all decided to go there, from technology to almost everything. There are even now those who say that Ireland is a tax haven. Hey, when in London City they lowered corporate tax two years ago, did they do it to raise less, or to raise more? Because it turns out he's down and now they're collecting more. And now they're collecting more. Hey, the things that work, why don't you guys think about copying them? I know that Britain is not his model, nor Ireland. We already know which model is: Cuba has just told me that it is its model. That's fine with me. But, hey, why don't you copy the models that work, and where people live better than those reference countries you have? We want people to live better, we want people to be equal, but above, not below, and everyone to make more money, and I told them the other day. And it is clear that our model has nothing to do with the things that you propose, but that your speech, with your proposals, is contradictory. You didn't come here... , has not brought us a proposal to tax large companies. You have brought us a proposal for Basque SMEs to pay – which are already the most paying in Spain – even more. Pay more, yeah. That's your proposal. Read it: first article, the type goes up to all. The guy goes up to everyone, that's his proposal. There are no exceptions. And from the income of savings, I guess because you've given a little shame the approach you've taken and brought us, you haven't answered anything else. But I repeat: by the way; because we do not have competence for this mess that you have wanted to ride here; because these are not surcharges, and you know it as well as I do (this is trying to climb the guys cheating, and I have told you from the beginning)... And, of course, we are in favour of the economic concert, we are in favour of the Statute, and we are in favour of the Constitution. I therefore repeat that we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. We'll take a step to the vote. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u33	Good morning, everyone. Well, the Socialist Group will vote against taking into consideration the proposal made by Elkarrekin We can in the discount time to increase revenues by setting indiscriminate surcharges on certain taxes. Because it is a proposal brought at the last minute, with little seriousness (I believe that in the turn against something they have explained), motivated only by the urgency of their own proposing group to build a speech that justified their vote against the budgets of 2017, contradictory and incongruent. An example has been explained to him. A real estate speculator for Podemos is the one who buys a place to put his first activity. A real estate speculator is the person who, having suffered an ERE in his company, has to rent his house to be able to pay the mortgage and is going to live at his parents' house. All these examples are from the surcharge proposed by Podemos. Look, my colleague Susana Corcuera told him in the debate on amendments to the whole, and I probably repeat it next Tuesday: we are all parliamentarians since October, all of us; we have all been able to make proposals from the beginning, and I think someone has left their duties late. Because if you want to change politics you work from the zero minute, not when the urgency comes in; something that the socialists are doing and that has given rise to an agreement to co-rule Euskadi during a legislature and that already included this forecast of tax review. Because it's not true that we've only been talking about income or its review for a few weeks; we've been talking about it for years. So much so that three years ago a tax reform was made. Others, on the other hand, the proponents, have not been in such a hurry. His only urgency was to ask that this which we are going to reject today be done urgently, that we reject it urgently. And there was haste because, as some others have said in this rostrum, they remember Santa Barbara when she thunders, and they remembered the revenues when the budgets were recorded, and because they had to build a justification for that unruly that they wanted to give them. And it's not a serious proposal. It's not serious. And precisely in this type of action, in which we are talking about changing our country's tax system, we cannot work in this way, we cannot bring forward these kinds of proposals. And I am not going to go much longer, mainly because we have already set out in this House on several occasions what our position is and what our idea is to change the tax system in tax matters. And that's two questions. The first, a conviction, that you have read to me because it comes also in the Government's view. And the second is a procedure. The conviction that we socialists have is that taxation is an essential tool for building a more just and supportive country, a necessary instrument for progress as a society, for maintaining public services and services, and that it must have a fundamental objective, which is to set up an equitable, progressive, supportive, sufficient and efficient system. He said it, and he said it smiling, but it is that the tax system must guarantee – and it is true – an adequate balance between income and expenditure, and it must contribute to generating wealth, it must contribute to the competitiveness of the productive fabric, and it must contribute to job creation. And, of course, this is the answer to the tax reform that took place in 2013, and it must be the answer to any change in the tax system that takes place. This, not other emergencies. And the second question is the procedure that has been marked, the milestones that we have to follow, that are divided into two and that are known, of public knowledge, because they were already blacked out when we signed the 2013 tax reform agreement that has been re-ratified in the governance agreement. And it was that there had to be an evaluation process after three years since the tax reform was launched, to analyze results, compliance with objectives, virtues and defects. And precisely in this – and you know it – the four Basque administrations are currently working. They do, however, work without the urgency of headlines or the need for arguments, but with the seriousness and thoroughness that this issue requires. And soon, take it for sure, we'll know that data. And the second paragraph of these milestones or the procedure to be followed is that, once we know the data and know the conclusions, we will propose the necessary modifications. But from the reality of knowing who each measure affects, and without generalities or urgency. And that's what we're going to do, without media emergencies, because socialists don't need to look for excuses. We are not afraid to commit ourselves to solving the problems of citizens. We'll see what others do when the time comes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Pindo, represent the EH Collect Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u35	Thank you. Good morning again. Tonight, the Podemos team put it on the table to force the law proposal on certain taxes. This proposition again discovers the policy of taxes, the discussion of public political affairs about public affairs, although some of them desire the contrary, because it has come to stay with us. The Basque Country has more than once brought the discussion of the policy of the tax into this parliament, and we are glad to be brought by another group. We vote for our present day to consider the proposition of the law, because we believe that it is good to discuss it, and that the use of the torrents in a text of the Orders of the Great Ogsun, as the speaker has said, is precisely to be foreseen. 35. in the article. It's true that the chance to set up these floods only used it in 1983, timetable at the time of the president, to fund the extraordinary expense of floods, that is to say, to respond in front of an extraordinary situation. But it is true, that there is such a possibility in the law, and we must not go so far as to see that a government examined the chances of using it in the time of the Gibraltar Government: While the adundias addressed to EAJ called the form of tax-burning in a ring, the head of the Aguires examined the opportunity, because it was in a state of suffocation. We all remember the words of José Luis Bilbao: "The cow of Equinomy doesn't seem enough milk. The question is no longer to rise, but to heal, for she is ill." The co-ordination between the shared institutions and the institutions of historical countries which M. Unfortunately, it didn't happen alone then. But as soon as Mr. Urkullu arrived at Ajuria Lodge, the affairs of the state of tribute were lost, and Louis Louis Bilbaus himself saw the need of reform and did it. Very funny, really, with whom and with PSE they had done it, when and when they had reduced the government term, by pressing on the money sources of Christmas and denying the need of tax reforms. We've said more than once that this is how we proclaim that the resources of japanese public policies and other public institutions are exposed to the need of tax reforms. The chairman of the department has, in a short time ago, made one with the necessity of the tax-form, but once more the cooperation of the institutions has appeared, and even the negative of the aldunities. And once more, I'd have to go back, for the time being. We'll have to talk about this one day in the Parliament. For Euskal Herria Bildu the need for fiscal reform is a peremptory reality, not only because there is a more than obvious problem of public resources to finance public policies for the benefit of people, the drive of our economy and the development of our society, but because the current tax model promoted by PNV, PSE and the People's Party does not meet its objectives, it does not serve to collect what is expected, it does not get the redistribution of wealth to be effective, and, worst of all, it is not fair or equitable, because it continues to rely mainly on labour incomes, while business profits or unproductive wealth are collected less every day. However, since Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that it is not a question of taking short-term measures, because the problem of fiscal policy in this country is much deeper. It is not that what has been expected for a timely economic situation has not been collected for a year. No, it's not. It is that the taxes in force are designed in such a way that, even in an environment where large companies in the country advertise big profits, they do not pay just taxes. We have already said this in this House, and we repeat it again: with the tools that exist, even by fulfilling that virtuous circle of common institutions, institutions of historical territories and the Tax Coordination Body, a tax reform can and must be addressed from the public debate. Because fiscal policy is not reserved for the general public, because fiscal policy affects all of us, and we therefore believe that it is essential to articulate mechanisms to facilitate this necessary public debate. Then the relevant changes will be made by the body or administration to which it belongs, but let us not, once again, allow our country's fiscal policy to be decided by four in an office behind the back of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. Our party will vote against us, and I will endeavour to explain what our principal reasons have been for it. On the one hand, we've got the opinion of 'Medon', and we agree with that, with the reasons and arguments and reasons that have been given us, to ignore the legal proposition. On the other hand, we do not agree with the precedent that appears in the initiative, with the content of the statement and proposition, and we must also say that we have received no explanation from the proposed group, we have not been contacted by any means in order to examine or to do anything else, so that we have not found any particular motive for the proposal, and I believe that something similar has happened in the other groups. Apart from that, the main reason to vote is the next. In the first place, it is said, in the last few years, that proposals have been brought to the legislature, and that this Chamber has a right to increase the revenues of the revenue. And he mentions, in particular, the 35th of the British Law, the Ordinations of the Magnese of the Magnanim. an opportunity to establish rivers above the great taxes which are to be foreseen in the article. And that's not fair. As a matter of fact, we've only got one record, but only once has that opportunity been used. And that was a decision to face the damages caused by the floods of 1983. It was, therefore, quite extraordinary by some event, and it was evident that the nature of the river was transient and extraordinary. On the other hand, in the causes of the legal proposition which we have today discussed, there is no justification of this kind, and at least our party does not think that we are in a similar situation in 1983. On the other hand, we have no objection to affirm that we would like to have much more income. And who doesn't? But we don't think that's the best way to break it. For the sole purpose of the tax policy for us cannot be to have greater revenues without many other circumstances. And by this I mean, that besides this, it must also serve to aid the competition of a hundred producers, or to promote wealth and employment. In this respect we are prepared to reflect and debate on our legislative system, but it must be the first step to examine and draw conclusions from the reform of the tax regulations made in the year 2014, in order to be able to determine the exact data and the results of objective results. In any case, we don't think it's the best thing to do to establish the funds. Especially when the percentages proposed are not even specified where they came from. We don't know how to build 20% on one, 6% on the other, 2 percent next time, why those percentages and not others? A proposition of this kind, in our opinion, demands a much deeper consideration, demands more serious exercise, and is not sufficient to say, "As we need more money, we will make a bargain upon the compacts of the forum." Even less when Euscalal Autonomy is against the organization and the tax system. For in the consent of the institutions, co-ordination, and the model which is founded on co-workers, this proposition opposes it. Can't ignore the Euscadian Cerga Koordination Organ. He is the one who has a right to agree to the imaginary reforms of the tax regulations of our order. Besides all these, he has given us attention 35. that they will, above all, be reduced to the downfalls of the article, to the profits of the corporations, to the savings, to the selling of the second units, or to taxes on the play. I don't want to repeat the descriptions they've given in the past blackmails, but it's true that he's given us an attention about the profit of the corporations. Why do I say that? That's because in article 35 there's no such thing as a stream on the socitated taxes. But it is true that together the Podemos has foreseen this defect, and the last regulation of their enterprise was 35. he employs it to alter the article by adding the tribute over the societates, as well as by adding it. Now, in this case, we could not defend it, even if we were willing to. For before such an enterprise is introduced, it is proper, as has been said, to study beforehand, and also to know the precedents and circumstances of the legal text which is intended to vary. As far as we can see, the team proposer didn't do that exercise. In other words, he would know that the laws of the organizations were also the occasion of the public revenue in the past, but that it had to be removed because the Court of the Constitution regarded him as contrary to the Constitution of the Union. So...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u38	Yes, go to the end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u39	And in order to avoid further delays, our vote will be rejected for the principal reasons mentioned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Forth point on the theme list: "In exchange for the law-proposs made by the Parliamental Podemos, Tribunal Vasco de Cuentas Públicas/ to change the 1/1988 law of the Basque Court. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been dismembered, and we're just going to argue. On the side... ? And then... ? Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u41	Hello, everyone. Thank you, Your Honor. Well, last January Elkarrekin Podemos presented his proposal for priorities in the Basque Parliament for the exercise of the supervisory role of the Basque Court of Auditors, and on this list it was presented to the Basque Parliament as the subject of scrutiny for the financial years 2012 to 2015. We were not allowed to proceed with this proposal, arguing that both the Statute and the rest of the legal systems recognize the financial autonomy of Parliament, excluding any external control over the parliamentary budget, an issue that Elkarrekin Podemos does not question. Article 2 of Law 1/1988 of 5 February of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which regulates the scope and extension of financial control and does not include this institution, is mentioned. We are in favour of applying the spirit of the Transparency Act beyond the transparency portal of the website of this House and of the Basque Court of Public Accounts as a dependent body, since both entities are financed with public money. Let the inspector be checked. We believe that this is an opportunity to increase the level of transparency of this Parliament as an element of good governance, and to integrate dimensions such as institutional integrity, open governance and efficiency. For all the above, Elkarrekin Podemos presents this bill to amend Law 1/1988 of 5 February of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which aims to respond to some of the challenges of institutional integrity and efficiency, including criteria of gender equality, environmental sustainability or transparency. As we explained in the explanatory statement of the proposed law, the first two articles seek to respond to the need for institutional integrity, extending the Court of Auditors' oversight functions to the Basque Parliament and to all the entities that depend on it, for which it will be necessary to provide the appropriate mechanisms for the control of the accounts of the Basque Court of Public Accounts itself. The third article refers to matters dealt with by the Basque court. Until a relatively short time ago, the efforts of these courts focused on verifying whether the accounts were carried out in accordance with accounting standards and the current legal order, without paying attention to whether the management was effective. While article 10 of the Act reflects the need for effectiveness, further steps are needed to shift the direction towards operational audits, incorporating aspects such as efficiency, understood as the ability to do things well and achieve the best or maximum performance using a minimum of resources. Similarly, incorporate parameters such as gender equality, environmental sustainability and transparency. In short, it is a question of providing us with tools to evaluate the purchasing or contracting systems and to monitor revenues, by assessing the rationality of decisions that, without being illegal, do not meet the purpose of the institution, and consequently to extend the subject of control also towards a control of opportunity. Finally, article 4 proposes to add a final provision that responds to the need and the repeated request of the courts of autonomous accounts for greater cooperation and cooperation with their parliaments. It is a matter for the court itself to issue a mandatory report when an amendment to the regulatory rule is envisaged. The current political-institutional crisis forces us to face the challenge of regaining the lost confidence of citizens in their institutions, and this goes by opening the windows of institutions and building a responsible administration towards their citizens. That's all. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. As there is no intervention in the reverse shift, we'll go to the vote. Basque Popular. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Eguerdi on guztioi. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly, to explain the meaning of the People's Parliamentary Group's vote on this bill, and to tell you two things, that the important thing is the second, at least the one that I care most about. The first is to tell you that it seems reasonable and interesting to us the debate that is being held by Podemos, and, without advancing our future position when we have the opportunity to debate this matter, to tell you that we will vote in favour of the processing of this bill, because in any case it seems to us necessary that we also move forward here, that in this House we move forward in order to gain transparency and to be demanding also with the control bodies we have provided ourselves, in order to control not only this Parliament, but also the public institutions to which we owe ourselves. Therefore, our sense of vote will be in favour, and we will participate in the debate on the bill with great interest. But I also want to share with you, in the second place, a fact that must not go unnoticed, and that is that there is already a proposal for a law promoted by the People's Party which also intends to change some aspects of the composition, the form of election, the content of the Basque Court of Auditors. A motion for a law that we tabled in this legislature but which was also tabled in the past; that in the last legislature (and I would like to remind you that it is a proposal for a law that consists of two articles, two) suffered – and I think it is well expressed as "suffered" – two requests for an extension of the deadline (forgive me, three requests for an extension of the deadline: two by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one by the Basque Nationalist Party). The legislature has ended, we have started a new one, we have resubmitted the bill, and we have again had two requests for an extension of the deadline of fifteen days each; one by the Socialist Party and one by the Basque Nationalists. It does not seem reasonable that a two-article bill, which we have already had the opportunity to know and study parliamentary groups in the past legislature, should be resubmitted to the legislature and be given two extensions of the term. Someone might suspect that what you are trying to do is, through a legitimate parliamentary manoeuvre, but what you are trying to do is to extend the opportunity for this House to discuss this matter. I just trust that you won't be the same. Of course, what I can also tell you is that the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to present an extension of the deadline, it is not going to ask for an extension of the deadline, and let us hope that once and for all we can have these debates in depth and calmly in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u45	I go to the rostrum, although I was thinking of doing it from the seat, because I had certain doubts as to whether what we were doing was justifying the vote or we were on a turn for or against it. I am only going to say that, when the debate on a law is being proposed, that debate has to be calm, and that it does not have to bother that parliamentarians have to have enough time to analyse the proposals wisely and with reasonableness and to be able to contrast certain elements. What is true is that there is no risk that the legislature will end and that there will therefore be no delaying manoeuvre behind any request for an extension of the deadline. They are instruments that have parliamentary processing and are used if necessary. I started my speech on January 26th, saying that the socialists – I said then – "Today, as it was a year and a half ago, we consider it opportune to address the reform not only of this law, but of those which affect the bodies that depend on this Parliament, which are accountable to it and to all citizens". And that was why we voted in favour of that bill to amend the Basque Court of Auditors' law. And those same reasons and arguments are going to serve us to justify today the vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposed law presented by the Elkarrekin group We can amend three additional articles of the law. I will not go into the exact contents of the proposal at this time, as I did in January, because that is the parliamentary procedure to which the law is already subject, with enlargements included, and we will at that time express our position with the amendments that we are currently drafting. Because the question, in short, has not changed, and today it is the same as three months ago, in January, that it is no more than answering how we can improve the functioning of the court and how we adapt this body to the new demands of these times. What is true is that I hope and wish that no new proposals or new proposers will be added, and that within a very long time we may have definitively amended the Basque Court of Auditors Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mr. Uruzuno, representing EH Collector. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u47	Good morning, everyone. Our vote will be favourable, Mrs. Macazaga, especially for two things. And as Rébeka, my first partner, Ubek, has said, one for principles. We think it is not lawful to close the door to debates, and even if it be for mere form, this will be the case. But secondly, as well as in the case of matter. We spoke of this for the last time in January, and there we married the arguments and reasons. We shall not repeat them again, but what we wish to make clear is that in our opinion the Basque Court of the People does the most important functions-that the public revenue examines whether they have been used in the proper manner by public administration or not, and if not, denounces them. Therefore, considering the importance of this function, we believe that all the legal proposals which follow are of use to make the Basque Court of the People as much as possible. We say that it must be independent, we say that it must be objective, we say it must be professional, so as we have agreed with all the legal proposals which have hitherto come to us, we shall assent to this too. However, I would like to remark what Mr. Sémper has said. We give him reason. Strangely, the Poptular sometimes says sensible things, as Mr. Sémper has done today. And we'd like to make a note of that. In the preceding law there were neither of them, two laws-one of the Potion Party and the other of the Basque People. And in January, I believe I said, and especially if we did not introduce the legal proposition, that is to say, to advance time, and to get ahead of it as soon as possible, seeing what happened in the preceding law. We shall meet, therefore, as I have said, at the height of power, and hope to make as many adaptations as this People's Court will require, in order to complete its functions as well as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mrs. Gorospe, Eubertarians represent the team. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u49	Your permission, Madame of the Parliament, from the seat. To say that the Eubertarians will vote together for the bill of law which Podemos introduced (to change the 1/1988 law of the Civil Court of the People). We shall vote for it, as has been said before, on the previous law, and this year also some other legal proposition has been introduced in this legislature, and for the same reasons. Although we do not agree, on the one hand, with you, Mrs. Macazaga, and some reasons which we have been able to read, we do not agree with, nor with certain parties proposed in the articles. In any case, we believe that the law is ancient, and, as we have said in the foregoing disputes, there is a way of improvement in the direction of transparency and of good government. And we believe that, by the way of conversation, we shall have the opportunity to improve this organization and others, apart from conversation and opportunists and demagogues, we have a capacity for it. Yes, it seems to us that we think it good to take the time and rest in order to examine all this, so that it does not happen, for instance, that what has happened around this law in the preceding law, such as that of a certain number of parliaments, had presented a certain collection of laws in order to alter a particular proposal, and six months later proposed a different proposition of law. This is either the one or the other, or both, the law-produce of lightness, so that it does not happen, let us speak calmly, take what is necessary and go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Five point in theme list: "To discuss first the other proposition of the Parliamentary EH Collectations, concerning the necessity of reopening CSN's resolution and of the Ministry of Power, which might in this sense come before the decrees and commands of the Ministry of Energy. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Otero, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u51	Yes, good noon to all. It was not our intention to bring us back to this Chamber of Garoña's discussions, we have been forced to do so this day, because it is necessary that we should bring this proposition here, as it were, to the extent of certain accounts derived from the decisions which we have made on the 2d of February. The object, therefore, is not to debate so much about Garoña, but to carry forward the legal services of the legislature and the legal services of this Chamber. On the 2nd of February, owing to the intermediate correction derived from the original proposition of the Socialist Party, the following text was admitted. At the fifth point, it was said that the Basque parliament has decided to ask for the legal services of the Chamber, if the Spanish Government decides to reopen Garoña, and to make a careful examination of the chances of all the judicial instances which may be necessary, and to make a report of what may be a legal opportunity in the month's time, to shut up Garoña once for all in any legal and administrative district. From this day until now there has been so many accounts, and, well, to explain to you why we are here to-day, we must first say that in February 8th, the resolution of the Council of Nuklear Security had come, and in our opinion, that we do not believe him alone, but in our opinion, will be seen reading the report of legal services later on, well, it has been an imprudence, that has been a mistake, has been a resolution that has been wrong, and that there is an enormous blank space and there is a contradiction. So he even gave the opportunity to appeal. This was known on March 7th, when the report of the jurists arrived, and this report seemed to us to have some important things to do at its moment, as the public asks us to do, beyond our instructions. And in three main matters I could sum up the report: In the first place, that the legislature has a complete right to reopening of the nuclear central of Garoña, in order to participate in the administration, as the representative of the people of Araba, Bisca, and of the Gipu, in order to defend the general interest; secondly, that appeal may be made against that which the Council of the Nuclear Security decided on the 8th of February; and the third, that the legislature may present the usual appeal, if at last the Ministry of the Spanish Power gives way to open Garoña, it may be opposed to the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Spain by means of the administration, or to the jurisdiction of the administration. Thus the subject passed on March 7th, and seeing that it was urgent or urgent, while the time for the entrance of appeals was over, we prepared a document at the meeting of the table on March 14th to enable legal services. But as the procedure was impossible, we presented it on March 16th, and I hope you will admit that this bill of law which we are discussing here today. And, after all, what we ask to-day is the commitment to the reopening of the nuclear Plant of Garoña to use all the means it has to open, just as it was taken in the proposition of the previous law, and to be carefully examined by the jurists before CSN's resolution, what can be done, and to give the Table no further passage in the whole meeting, if the Spanish Government passes through the reopening of Garoña. So that's what we're arguing about today, and I have the subject on the table, let me tell you two or three more things before I let you speak. On the one hand, it is important to remark that several other processes have been passed in front of this trial, and it is important to remark that on the third of March 31st, that is to say, the week before, the general assembly of the Iberdrons in action, on the one hand the forum against Garognañaa, and on the other hand that Greenpeac, Ignacio Sánz Galáni, had asked him if Garoñae intended to renew it, or once for all to be shut up and banished. Ignacio Sánchez Galáne said that he was not on the side of the Iberdron, that they would tell Endes that they are going to ask him to assemble Nucleo, and that Garoña should not be opened. So, so to speak, it could be good news. We don't think it's the best reason Sánchez Galán gave us the best reasons, because he was the only one who talked about economic matters, and it seems to us today that at least a hint about nuclear security was worth it and that it's worth it, isn't it? On the other hand, we had the chance to have a show at the Environment Committee yesterday, because the Basque Country was engaged to do all we can, I repeat, as long as we can do beyond the statement, in order not to set up stones for Garoña, and yesterday we saw it clear that there are so many holes in the trial that are now given to us, and so did the Greenpeces, the Nuclear Transcy Watch, and they'll say hello again, if we agree to the other teams in this case as well as to ask for the other elections of the President of the Council. And besides, we were also told that a new way may be opened, if the Spanish Government will pass over to Garoña, and that the Convention of Aarhus and the Convention of Spiro, may also be given by legal shares, as has occurred in other parts of Europe. So it seems to me that there's a pretty chance we've opened up and we have to keep working for the commitment we made. And thirdly, and to finish it, it seems to me that from the 2nd of February, there have been other interesting events to-day, and they have been in the street, because, well, two enormous mutations have been, first on February 23 of the Gastes, a gigantic human chain had existed, and on the 18th of March, the Gastizians, the Erosians, filled the streets of Gastians with eroscals, which we filled up the streets of the White Virgin, and, well, we filled up the streets of the Rue de l'Marre. And here again the demand seems to me to be an interesting one here, to hear the echoes of the street was, "Let us do all we can," and the other proposition of our present subsidence is in this sense, whether we do all we can, and whether we accept the like proposition, and from thence we have a fruitful relation to the Chamber, to examine what steps are to be the next of the Juridic services of this law, and for once and for all this eternal law, to have the same interest in order that he may have the same person, and make use of it. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u53	Thank you, President, again. Let's see, then, Mr. Otero, why do we repeat ourselves so much? But if this Parliament's opinion is clear! How's that raca-raca, how's that "with the dumb to the earrings"...? I mean, that is for you this situation in the Basque Parliament, a recurring opportunity to continue talking about a subject discussed, hyper-debate, exhausted... It is an issue on which we have spoken ten times, between the tenth and eleventh legislatures. I do understand the policy of pressure, the political pressure, and that, of course, is what you are trying to do. But we have already spoken about this on countless occasions, we have voted, we have decided, and also at this very session, on this issue. I mean, to say things more often, to repeat everything, you're no longer right. It's clear, isn't it? And, as much as you are committed to announcing the imminent opening of the plant, the truth is that we are closer to its closure than ever before. Garoña is closed, and its final closure is now, in April, closer than ever, Mr. Otero. That has to be recognized and it has to be seen. Look, a year ago the president of Iberdrola assured the unions of the closure of the plant. That's what it's been a year. And I guess some of your colleagues will have told you that. And what's new? The new thing is "Galán wants to close Garoña and questions the profitability of the entire nuclear park"; "Iberdrola asks Endesa to renounce the reopening and blame the fiscal burdens of the losses in this power source"; "Iberdrola wants to close Garoña and points to the final end of the power plant"; "Galán assures that it is not profitable and announces that the whole nuclear business will be reconsidered" (i.e. it passes from Garoña even); "Nuclenor recognizes that the continuity of Garoña is economically impossible. The owners, Endesa and Iberdrola, would have to assume an investment of 205 million added to the many millions that have been invested." I mean, that's the state of affairs, which we discussed two months ago, very recently, total for the same thing, for the same kind of conclusions. And, of course, we are not going to discuss the report that the legal services have made. We know the competence of the legal services of the House, and we understand that they have made the legal reflections that were coming. Man, in relation to these kinds of resources, by decisions of the Nuclear Security Council, or the very one that the Ministry of Energy can carry out at the time, seem to be more executive than parliamentary issues, I say this again, because of the speciality of legal services, because of the specialization of the services that the executives have and because of the issues dealt with, which, so to speak, escapes the strictly sensu parliamentary sphere, right? It has more means for the government, it has more capacity, it has more expertise certainly in its legal fields, but, well, I do not know, the senior lawyer I already see in charge of certainly intensive courses in nuclear regulation, or in the administration of energy infrastructures, to one of the lawyers of the House for the acts they require; acts, on the other hand, of qualified procedure, even in which there are serious doubts regarding some of the issues. But, in any case, the report by the legal services is there, as far as legitimization is concerned, as far as the resources to be made are concerned, but there is also a lot of doubt as to whether the matter should be settled in this Parliament, when in a matter such as this the appropriate one would be the Government. In addition, there is another issue with regard to the substantive issue, which is the one that leads to political pressure on State administrative bodies, on the central government: it is that the central government cannot unilaterally curtail an administrative procedure. That would harm everyone, because of the risk of impressive sanctions that could lead to cutting off an administrative procedure to which the trading companies, to which Iberdrola, Endesa or Nuclenor are entitled, are entitled. In other words, that unilateral pronouncement was to be so. Just as with your insistence what you seek is to benefit Iberdrola and Endesa, and that the central government pay important sanctions for the violation of the law that these societies have! I just don't understand! Sometimes the debate starts to get into a loop we don't understand. In other words, that the central government closes an administrative procedure, what will it suppose? That Endesa and Iberdrola must receive one million dollars from the central government. I mean, in that sense I think there's a risk there that we certainly can't take. We will act, we will continue to act and we will speak in this House when there is something new, Mr Otero, when there is something new. The legal services report is not new; it is normal, it is common. And it will be done when it has to be done, when there is something new. Look, I also think that what everyone's already thinking is when the dismantling takes place. I think that's what everyone is thinking already in relation to this issue! Today we are closer to that precisely, to dismantling, than to any other circumstance, Mr Otero. I mean, I think that's the point. The legal services of the House – following on with the subject that you refer to us – were already empowered in relation to this issue, as they will be whenever circumstances arise, whenever it is analyzed... There is absolutely nothing new in this non-legislative proposal. We are talking about a matter of substance simply to keep insisting on the same, what we have already talked about. It is necessary to generate political debates that stimulate more, new issues when new circumstances arise. But no, you have taken advantage of an ordinary legal instrument which has already been requested and commissioned by this Parliament, even though it was already known that we could proceed, in relation to matters which may affect the Basque Autonomous Community, by this Parliament legally, but there is nothing new. The legal services of the Chamber have done a job, they have relied on other sentences, they have relied on particular votes of the Nuclear Security Council... issues that may also be questionable, but there they are. They have a number of decisions that they will use if necessary. I say again that I think that the residence of resources in relation to these issues would be better located in the Executive than in the Legislature, but, well, we will see. That is, that, of the three points that you present to us, is that there is nothing new! The first is "Parliament warns that reopening would be serious and unacceptable". But how many times have we spoken on this subject! Opinative too, but how many times have we spoken? "Parliament undertakes to employ..." I say again, more than Parliament would be the government, but we have also spoken on this issue. "In case the Ministry..." It has been known for a long time, we have also spoken on this subject! In other words, we are in infinite repetition on this issue, and we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u55	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, we have discussed innumerable occasions on the subject of Garoña. This is what Mr Barrio says whenever he has the opportunity to come down to this rostrum to talk about it, like other speakers. But there is something new about this initiative, even if it bothers you. Indeed, today is not the time to reposition the political parties on whether or not we agree with the reopening or closure of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant, but what this initiative raises is that, after the adoption on 2 February, there was a doubt that it was the Basque Parliament (as a chamber, not as an executive) that could be involved in the administrative procedure. That is what the legal services of the House were asked to do, and that is what the legal report says. Therefore, it was the reason – I understand – why Bildu proposed this initiative. It is true that two of the points put forward political positions that we have each put forward in this House, but it is true that the point that Parliament can position itself is something new, since we required the opinion of the legal services. Therefore, as I say, it is not a question of reopening the debate today. We all know what the positioning is. Although you will acknowledge, Mr Barrio, that you do not always vote the same: you have voted no, you have voted yes, and today you are voting abstention. So, they try a little bit of everything, and so, in the end, something does change: it changes the popular party's vote every time we talk about Garoña. So, look, you are bringing something new to the debate thanks to Mr Otero's initiative. I must therefore say that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of the initiative put forward today by EH Bildu. He will vote in favour because we believe that we should close that circle, that loop that Mr Barrio is talking about. We have already positioned all the groups, but it is true that this point that we are raising today is a way of closing that circle, and that, if the People's Party is to be able to continue with the possible reopening of Garoña, the Basque Parliament, in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the parliamentary groups in this House, we can go to an administrative procedure. And I say "it's going to happen" because yes, Mr Barrio, it is true, even if it is surprising, that the Council of Ministers can do the end of this and that, as we were told yesterday, it is a final point for the following energy policy: that we end up closing each and every nuclear power station, or that Garoña ends up being a starting point from which to continue and start working on another kind of energy policy that most Basques or Spaniards want. That is, therefore, indeed in the Council of Ministers. It is the Minister, the Secretary of State, who can say what can or cannot happen to the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power station, and what this Parliament wants to make clear is that, if it comes to that, this House will do what it has to do, which is what society on the street is asking for and what parliamentary groups are asking of it here. So let us hope to stop boring you now, Mr Barrio, never again talking about Garoña, because indeed in the coming months the Council of Ministers and Mr Rajoy will inform us that the history of Garoña is over, and from there we hope not to have to continue discussing nuclear power stations, because it will be the point of ending this. But I don't know why he gives me that he doesn't have any different votes left. They've voted for everything. They're already going to abstain today. Let's see if you start listening a little bit to society and stop boring us with this Garoña thing. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u56	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Indeed, just three months ago we were in this House debating the need to close down Garoña or not, and, although the position was majority, we went into that debate by asking ourselves who puts the rattlesnake to the cat. And I believe that if something became clear in that debate, in the non-legislative proposal that was passed, it became clear that, given the inaction and laxity shown for years by the government on this issue, it had to be Parliament that took the lead in seeking all legal and administrative avenues to achieve the unconditional and definitive closure of Europe's most obsolete nuclear power plant. I agree with Mr Barrio that this would seem to be a matter for the government, but the reality is that the government has done nothing in all these years. It is therefore to be thanked, first of all, for the diligence and good work shown by the legal services of this House when it comes to putting into practice, in the report entrusted to them, the most appropriate ways of dealing with the legal-administrative framework which the electric oligopoly itself and its revolving doors have been pushing around the reopening of Garoña and which have been exposed in this report. Because this report confirms what we have already denounced since Elkarrekin last December in this very rostrum. In summary, the report confirms that the conduct of the central Government and the summit of the Nuclear Security Council has been aimed at keeping the door open to extending the life of Spanish nuclear power plants, even at the cost of committing multiple administrative irregularities. That's what I'm saying. First irregularity: issue a report in favour of reopening without Nuclenor having implemented the security measures that the Nuclear Security Council itself demanded in its day to authorize reopening. And let us be aware at this point that, despite the propaganda that Nuclenor has spread in the media, the design modifications that are pending to be implemented are very significant from the point of view of nuclear safety and radiological protection. This plant is neither safe nor has incorporated the safety improvements, for example, derived from the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident, something that the rest of the Spanish nuclear power plants are doing but that Garoña has not yet done (127 reports have done the CSN in this regard, without having been attended to). The second serious irregularity committed by the CSN is to authorize the renewal of the authorization without establishing a period of validity of the authorization, a requirement which the Nuclear Security Council has not granted to any other nuclear power plant in the State since the Vandellós accident. All authorisations expire in ten years, and yet the one granted to Garoña will be for the next seventeen years. And the third serious irregularity is to modify, at the request of the employer of the electricity sector Unesa and for the sole purpose of enabling this indefinite extension, the regulations on periodic reviews established by the council itself, and to apply it without the amendment having been approved by the plenary of the Nuclear Security Council. This is unusual when we talk about nuclear safety, but it is even more unusual when we look at it from the point of view of administrative law. All these maneuvers, in short, constitute a clear deal of favor towards Nuclenor and therefore, by extension, to Iberdrola and Endesa. And these are irregularities whose publication, in any civilized country, would have been sufficient for the Office of the Prosecutor to initiate an ex officio investigation into respect. But not in this country. In this country, political power and economic power have very narrow ties and very wide revolving doors, through which we circulate favors that people who use electricity pay on each invoice and on each receipt. However, what is confirmed by the report of the legal services is that the Basque Parliament has the status of interested party in carrying out legal actions, as the body of highest representation of Basque citizens and as the holder of collective legitimate interests in the field of the environment, health, civil protection and land management. We will therefore support EH Bildu's non-law proposal, because it is urgent for this House to assume its political responsibility and, in accordance with the wishes of Basque citizens, to take the decision to appeal first to the CSN's favourable report, as well as to the subsequent ministerial order, which will certainly also be in favour of granting the extension of the operating authorisation to the plant. Just three months ago we said in this rostrum that the fastest way to close Garoña was for some of the parties represented in this House to take advantage for once of their rotating doors for the benefit of the citizens and to pressure the owner companies of the plant to voluntarily renounce the reopening. Since this has not been the case, we ask the groups present here to at least support this initiative, and thus add their votes to the citizen cry that over and over again calls on the streets for the definitive and unconditional closure of the central station of Garoña and its immediate dismantling. I conclude by saying that in yesterday's appearance in the Committee on the Environment, the representative of Greenpeace Raquel Montón ruled that Garoña can be the end of nuclear energy in our environment, or the beginning of a new era of nuclear risk. It's not like that in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ramírez-Ecudero, your word is yours. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Mme. head of the table, good morning to all. Can we dream of closing up the nuclear Plant in Garoña before the end of the year? Can President of Iberdrot say anything last week about any stockholders? Whatever happens, the Eusucan Act can appeal to the decision of the Nuclear Security Council which enables the reopening of the central administration, and we will attempt to do so. We are not going to table any amendments and we are going to vote in favour of Euskal Herria Bildu's GNP because we believe that from the point of view of date, timing and content it is entirely appropriate. We are talking about an appeal by the Basque Parliament against the Nuclear Security Council resolution of 8 February, which allowed for the reopening of Garoña. And what do we have as new in this Garoña affair? For we have a report from the legal services of the Basque Parliament, which must be thanked for its density and accuracy and for its speed in carrying it out, of thirty-nine sheets. But it is a report that does not deceive anyone, because, apart from the exact, dense, it is also very sincere, and it also points out the possibility that a little bit of legal skating can be done and that the remedy may not succeed, because it points to the virtues of the remedy but also points to the possible defects in form and that a higher authority does not accept the remedy. At this point we see two aspects: the legal aspect, and the political aspect. From the legal point of view, we have said this, we will support the presentation of the appeal, but we know that it may not be successful. I mean, Mr. Barrio, if you don't succeed, you should know that we knew that, too. That is, we are not going to present it innocently, but we know that it is possible that it can be legally rejected. But we also have another aspect, that political aspect. From the political point of view, even from its ethical and moral aspects, we believe that we must continue, until the nuclear power plant is shut down, insisting on all kinds of peaceful, legal or legal measures to attempt the closure of Garoña. That is to say, before we vote yes to the presentation of this appeal we also put our doubts, in proportion to the doubts of the lawyers of the House, that it can be accepted, but we prefer to take that risk, because politically, ethically and morally we believe that any peaceful measure is indispensable for the closure of Garoña. Although it is not customary for a legislative assembly to be persons as an interested party in an administrative procedure, such as the extension in operation of the Garoña nuclear power plant, no one prevents a parliament from being persons in an administrative procedure if it believes that it has a legitimate interest in the subject matter of the dispute and the final resolution to be adopted. Euskadi has exclusive competence in land management, as well as civil protection, transport, health, communication, social assistance, and the Penbu, which is the Burgos Nuclear Emergency Plan, assigns competence to the departments of the Basque Government in these matters (in civil protection, public safety, health, transport, public works, social assistance and supply) in the event of an emergency or a nuclear accident at the Garoña nuclear power plant. From this perspective, the Basque Parliament has full legitimacy to act in the administrative procedure as depositary of the representative mandate of the Basques and Basques and in defence of the collective interests of Basque citizens in the matters indicated, as well as in the representation of the collective interests of Basque citizens in environmental matters, which would be very directly affected by the possible reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power station. There is the possibility of filing an appeal, first administratively and then, if so decided, before the administrative-contentious jurisdiction. In this case, the aim would be to go against the report of the Nuclear Security Council, bearing in mind that it predetermines and can facilitate the content of the Ministry's subsequent final resolution by setting the technical conditions for authorization. The purpose of this remedy, of course, should be to adhere to the issues of nuclear safety. I think, Mr Barrio, what we have today is not that we are going to vote for or against Garoña, which we have voted many times. We are voting in favour of this appeal, which is something new in the Garoña process. And I agree with you when you say that every day we see the closing of Garoña closer, but we cannot, waiting for that closing, sit quietly with our arms crossed, because, although we all imagine it close and close in time, we have to be vigilant, and we cannot stop doing any kind of legal, legal and peaceful measure against reopening, even though it seems that the closing measures by the Iberdrola are getting closer and closer every day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. In answer time, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u60	Yes, thank you. Even in short... I didn't mean to use the second round, but Mr. Barrio, he really wants to come back here and say three or four things. You say how many times we have spoken. I don't know how many times you have spoken! Of course, as Mrs Red said, they have spoken in every way. And I ask you and I ask you directly: are you in favour, or against the reopening of Garoña?, is your group in favour, or against the reopening of Garoña? Because it's not clear to me yet. As many times as you say you have spoken, it has not yet become clear to me. Because you are going to abstain, and that abstention really doesn't know what it means. And it is curious that you abstain and accuse us and us of raca-raca, when here the only one who has made raca-raca is you. He's the only one who's repeated the February 2 speech. That day he said there was no news; today he says there is no news. And it turns out that all the groups have come here to tell you that we had no intention of bringing back the subject of Garoña, but that it was a procedural issue that brought us here, precisely because there were new developments. Precisely because there were new developments, because there was a report from the legal services that told us that we had opportunities for action and that to do so we had to go through here. And you are committed to the fact that there is no news, in a desire not to want to hear what is being said to you from the rest of the parliamentary groups and from the legal services themselves. So you remind me of that kid who's going to fight and cover his ears while doing that "aah...!", and you come with the "no news" incorporated, when precisely what we have come to is to give you news. And on the other hand, I am also concerned about you, or about the speech, the little confidence you have placed in the legal services, which we asked on 8 February to produce a report within a month, which you had before the end of February itself, have given us a report that at a first reading to us seemed great, and you say that you will have to send them to study. But not only that, but you say that to the legal services, which have so well done the job so far, you will have to send them to do workshops, and then you will arrogate yourself to the quality of..., I don't know how to say, of senior counsel, when you already tell us that the result of the government closing Garoña will result in a lot of compensation for lost profits, or for whatever you want to tell us. And to finish, one last thing. I believe that you have made a mistake which seems to me to be important to point out, too, and you have said that the government cannot curtail the rights of companies. And I understand that what you mean by that is that it is the companies themselves that decide not to reopen, and that the government cannot do that. For I say to you that, speaking of curtailing, what the Government of the State has done is precisely, in recent years already in relation to all those small and medium-sized decisions that it has taken to facilitate the reopening of Garoña – which is what the Government of the State has done in recent years – what it has done is precisely to curtail the possibility, the capacity and the right of citizens to express themselves. And that is contrary to the Aarhus conventions on public participation, and the Espoo Convention on transboundary environmental impact assessments. And you, if you continue with that attitude, you're going to get us all into a problem. Good because they will facilitate the reopening of Garoña or the following nuclear power stations, either because of all the decisions they are making behind the back of the citizenry, in this dark body that is today the Nuclear Security Council. So I invite you (you still have the opportunity) to comment on what your group thinks about Garoña's closure, and I invite you to join the rest of the House's groups. That this time we are not the green dogs, you are the green dogs, because I believe that you are also being questioned for Basque citizenship, and of course the Alavesa, to do as many actions as necessary, to the extent of our possibilities, for Garoña to close. And it's something you're not lending yourselves to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u62	Thank you, President. And briefly, too. Look, Mr Otero, review the minutes, review the debates, and there you will see the positions, at every moment and with every debate that arises, perfectly justified, perfectly explained, and there they are. I mean, don't mix it all up, Mr. Otero. Don't mix it all up. Disqualify the actions of the Government... The central Government is doing what it is doing is respecting the administrative procedure, and it is respecting the legal procedures. Because there are rules of the game, you have to comply with the laws, the rules, the regulations, you have to attend to and study the opinions of the specialized agencies and advisors... And we've got to keep going! And you were telling me that I was accusing you that there are no new things. Of course there are no new things! You are in the raca-raca and in "with the burra a earrings" that I told you at the beginning, always, always in relation to this topic. And there's nothing new. And I did bring him something new. I did bring something new here. The novelty is what the company has said. The novelty is what Galán says in relation to which he wants to close Garoña and questions the profitability. The novelty is that Nuclenor recognizes that the continuity of Garoña is economically unviable. That is the only new thing that has happened during the month of March in relation to this issue! Because the legal services report is a legal approach that goes in relation to what this Parliament had already demanded. He had been demanding in Parliament, he had done so to the Government, that we should be prepared for resources, or we could be prepared for resources in the face of administrative decisions or political or ministerial decisions to be taken. That is the fundamental element, Mr Otero. I believe that the novelty is precisely, as I told you before, that Garoña is closed, and the novelty is that we are closer to the definitive closure than we have ever been. Closer to the final closure. I mean, that you had to really leave it alone. And it seems that that of equal resources is also neutralized in itself. There is no news, Mr Otero, in the political procedure, in the legal procedure. When there are, then, we will talk about this subject, but at the moment they are not so. Besides, I heard him perfectly. I heard him perfectly. You said I'd cover my ears... No, I have heard you perfectly, and that is why in every dimension of this debate, in every small dimension of this debate, of this repetition, I too perfectly explain to you what we think, and I have also said this in my previous speech. Well, Mrs. Red wanted to get me out of the way in relation to voting yes, no, or abstention, like, "Pum, pum. Out, out, out. I am not interested in this debate. Let's get it over with quickly and..." Let's see, vote yes, no, or abstention... I say again, what we have voted on has been explained and justified, always. Here are the minutes, our approaches, our comments. There they are. But let the Socialist Party tell me, let the Spanish Socialist Workers Party tell me, that Garoña is open because Mr Rodríguez Zapatero wanted it...! Garoña is open because Zapatero pushed an extension until 2013. That's why it's open, Garoña! That she could have closed it, and when she could have closed it, she opened it, reopened it. That is to say, in this sense, we should not be called into question by consistency, Mrs Red, in relation to this issue. And finally, Mr. Becerra, the cat rattlesnake you were talking about... , it seems that finally everything indicates that the owners of the plant are going to put it on them. And with all this procedure, I say again, with all this procedure you have happily spoken of administrative irregularities. Let's see, why do you say that? Have you reported administrative irregularities or have you reported administrative irregularities? Did you resort to them? I have no record of any administrative or judicial proceedings at this time, of any judgement, of any open judicial proceedings, or even of any judicial act, in relation to this issue. When we talk about these issues, we have to say things clearly. Why are you talking about administrative irregularities? That you do not like a certain procedure, and, rather than a procedure, you will certainly not like the substantive question, because that cannot be done with such a simple argument, with which there are administrative irregularities. No, no, If there are administrative irregularities, it is a serious matter, and I suppose we will have to report it. In that regard, I believe that our abstention is fully justified. I mean, there is nothing new, we have already spoken many times on the substantive issue, repeatedly and in a clear way... I believe that in these matters, if something new comes up, the legal services of this house, as those of the Basque Government, will be able to do, but at that time we will appreciate that. But now, Mr. Otero, the truth is that the retentin, the stirrup... Similarly, in two months' time or so, before the end of the session, we have some other important initiative in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u64	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr. Barrio, it's just that I wasn't going to go out or go down or take the microphone or anything. Some of us are with the stupid earrings, and it's that you can't be with the dumb earrings at all, because every day we come here to debate you vote a different thing. It explains this, indeed, because you believe that the role, the rostrum and the parliamentarians stand by everything. But no, Mr. Barrio. And then one thing I'll tell you. Zapatero's theme should look at it, eh! They have a problem that I think deserves attention. I don't know if a doctor, that Mr. Darpón isn't here anymore. You have a problem. This Member of Parliament in the previous debate, which I believe my part you did miss out on wanting to get me out of the way... It was not necessary to read the entire Minutes, because I explained the position of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in this rostrum. I explained it. Indeed, the life of the central office was extended four years, and, of four, you have wanted to make it indefinite. And that is why this Parliament has once again debated Garoña. Mrs López de Ocariz, you can explain it as you wish, that yesterday we had you as a spokesman on this subject in the parliamentary committee, and they want to convince us of something that is not real. And so now Mr Barrio is using the Iberdrola headline to pretend to explain that, thanks, it seems to be, to Iberdrola, and not to the People's Party, the plant seems to be closing and we have to be happy. Iberdrola will say whatever you want, Mr Barrio, but do not waive the Rajoy government's responsibility to make the final decision, and you know it. Because, of course, neither this Parliament, I believe, nor the Socialist Party, nor the Basque Party, nor the Spanish Worker, intend to do politics as a result of what companies say. And that's what you wanted to explain to us here. They have been defending, since Rajoy came to the government, that the lives of nuclear power plants were being extended, and more and more, until they were indefinite, and today he explains to us that the reason why Garoña is going to be closed is that Mr Galán has said that, as it costs a lot of money, we either exempt companies from taxes, or we seem to have to close it. And that's what you've come to tell us here. And it is you who is involved in the subject of Garoña, because here all we have come to talk about have said, "Today it is not enough to talk about Garoña's center yes or Garoña's center no; today what we have come to say is...". We had doubts as to whether Parliament, as a parliamentary chamber, could start an administrative procedure, and that is what we voted for today. And you, with the stupid earrings (in that yes), have come to tell us the roll they have been counting us for so many years, after which one day they vote yes, one day they vote no, and one day they vote abstention. And, as I say to you, the Socialist Party on nuclear energy has a political and ideological position: not nuclear energy. You, depending on who's sitting on that bench (before you were there, now you're there, now you're up there), vote a different thing. Álava and Euskadi do not want the headquarters of Santa Maria de Garoña, and do not want it independently of what Iberdrola says, and do not want it independently of what the Nuclear Security Council says. And you, Mr Barrio, know as well as I do that it is a decision that is made in the Council of Ministers, and then do not seek excuses outside. I didn't want you to get out of the way. What I'm telling you is to make a decision, but one: closure. Not when Mr Maroto is sitting there, who is sitting in Madrid today and seems to be passing more unnoticed among many, and it seems that the People's Party is defending something else. Therefore, you do not entangle us. We have to have a position, one. And the government of Rodriguez Zapatero did one thing, but it is that you are the second government that you carry and are doing nothing, of course nothing that supports the opinion neither social nor political of the Basque citizens. So, finally! And, as I say to you, and finally, look at Mr Zapatero, make him look at it, because I think that of course the socialists..., I will sleep much quieter, and I think that you will start to have a problem less of all that you have. But at least get Mr. Zapatero out of his troubles, because, in the end, as I said one day – and I also told you – it was less bad that he existed, because, if not, he would have to be invented.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u65	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u66	Well, yeah. I also did not intend to intervene, but I would like to clarify to Mr Barrio what I mean by administrative irregularities. You are a lawyer, I am not; then, I suppose you will have more rigour in analysing how it can be that, when a Nuclear Security Council makes 127 reports saying that a series of security measures have to be taken, and in writing you say that reopening cannot be allowed if these improvements are not taken, and yet this last report is favourable, without the measures being taken, because obviously that is a palmary inconsistency, where there are contradictory reports. When a Nuclear Security Council has regulations, let's say that this Parliament has an approved law, and it commits the amendment of the law, and when that law is in the submission of amendment to the Government it is thought to apply that law, the resolution is null and void, I understand! That is another irregularity that has been committed. So, I'm not making it up. What the legal services of this House have come to say is that the resolution or report of the Nuclear Security Council actually suffers from a number of irregularities that can be appealed against. Of course there is no court ruling, of course there is no ruling! If no one appeals it, how will he be sentenced against it? And what the legal services are saying and what EH Bildu is proposing is that we actually make the appeal, so that at some point there is a judgment against it. That does not mean – and I repeat it again – that in another country an action such as that taken by the Nuclear Security Council would not be being investigated – I say it again and I repeat it again – possibly by the Prosecutor's Office, for possible treatment of favor, because it is so. Now, that will obviously have to be determined by the courts. But I don't think I'm making anything up. I have spoken of administrative irregularities which are clear and obvious in the report presented by the House. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. We will go to the sixth point on the subject list: "To discuss first the Eubertians and Sociists of Esquilalists as the parlamentary groups did, and the unarmation of them. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. The Basque Socialist is the representative of the group, Mr. Pastor has the word to introduce and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u68	Thank you, President. "We are happy to have been able to be part of this group of people who knew how to rise from the ethical prostration that our society suffered to take the path towards the horizon of human dignity." With permission from Gesto pour la Paz, we retrieved the message of June 1, 2013 at Bilbao Circular Square. We recover it because we feel recognized in it, as we felt recognized in its twenty-eight years of silent and courageous existence, the one that planted before the murderers, the one that never silenced any violation of rights, the one that prompted the majority respect of the representatives of the citizens of Euskadi. That is the civil society we are part of, because we feel civilians and citizens. A civil society whose involvement has been definitive for the end of ETA, and which is now joined by other civil groups to end what was pending. I wish this current enthusiasm for participating in the terror lock would have been shared also when putting on a simple blue loop to ask for the freedom of a kidnapper meant a target on the portal. But that day of 2013 many of us exhibited the plate of "Lortu dugu"; many of us even kept it, because we knew that there was still work to be done. We had managed to get ETA to give up its terrorist activity, and it was left to stop him from keeping the weapons with which he still simulated any idea of his influence on the life of the Basques and the things we were deciding in the institutions. None of that has happened. Nothing that they defended who took the guns has happened. Euskadi is the opposite of those who wanted to impose. Euskadi is a society of free men and women, who think as they please and organize their lives as they decide. Euskadi is a society that long ago amortized everything that ETA wanted to represent. And one day ETA, harassed by police forces, harassed by the daunting social support that served as the only justification for issuing his death sentences through communiqués, considered it better to stage his end, hooded and scratched to the bottom, staged for a end that socialists will always remember. That 20 October 2011 there was a socialist government in Spain and there was a socialist government in Euskadi. A Basque socialist government that, expressly, had only been put on the terrorist's target two years earlier. All its members, and all who are worthy to collaborate with that executive. How can we not remember what the end of ETA was! And we know that we are not alone, but we cannot ignore that fact from the responsibility of the Government. Those of us who lived in the first person that the siege narrowed, that we were more than ever in the point of view, that we had difficulty finding people who would take a step ahead and put their knowledge at the service of public health, or of public education, or of the industrial strategy, or of social protection policies, who lived that then in the first person, we are the ones who best know that 2011 changed the lives of all the citizens of this country. Here again, our most sincere thanks go to those who dared, to those who did not hide, to those who paid attention to their fellow citizens above any personal consideration, even their own, of their own life. Because that day of 2011 was the first in our recent history in which there was no longer a single citizen, none, who was afraid to take his children to school, to walk the dog, to improvise a Saturday afternoon. That was the first day of peace. And yet five and a half years later ETA continues to retain weapons. There's no one who can understand that whoever said he's not going to kill again has guns. ETA has long been morally and socially unarmed, and now it is going to continue what it had left pending, and, indeed, for socialists it is not a minor issue. It is not because in such an inexplicably late delivery of weapons we want a new remedy for the victims; we want a window to be opened so that from those weapons we can extract data that clarify unsolved murders, and that their families can close their mourning, that they know who the culprits were. And that will only be determined by justice, in whose hands the open process must culminate. That is why this initiative; that is why this socialist involvement in ending ETA at once; that is why this institutional involvement, that of this Parliament in which we are in, that of this government in which we participate. Because by leading previous governments we got the most important thing, to end the murderous threat without a single crack in the rule of law. Now, by participating in the Government, without even a single crack in the rule of law, we want you to leave your weapons in the only place where the law provides for it. Socialists have been responsible and loyal in the past, we are in the present, and we will continue to be so in what remains to be done. The future of weapons is not our responsibility. The responsibility lies with the person who has to hand them over, and with the judges who have to investigate them. But it is our institutional responsibility to ensure that this procedure is safe. And it is not our responsibility to trace the pain of that half century starring ETA. It is the responsibility of ETA to assume at once that damage as unjust as it is useless. But it is our responsibility as a party, and in this case also as a government party, to help accompany and repair each of the people in this country who have suffered directly from ETA, or those who, with the excuse of ETA, have seen their most basic human rights violated. This proposal that we are bringing to the full today does not mean that it should be raised as a debate. It is true that the format is conducive to contrasting views, and so it will be, but we believed that, as is in our governance agreement as first of the human rights commitments for this legislature, we had to be an active and facilitating part of that end. And we thought, as is also justified, that this Parliament, as a representative of the citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, should decide on this need: on the need not to prepare an act of demand for ETA, but to materialize a single act of complete, unilateral, definitive and verified disarmament; a legal act where those who so far remain outside the law deposit in those who enforce the law what remains as a threat to society. Such disarmament must give rise to the definitive disappearance of ETA, which must be accompanied by critical reflection and recognition of the damage caused. An act that will never reconcile him with the victims, but which these victims need for those who were politically identified as traitors to the Basque people to see publicly recognized that there was never greater betrayal than the elimination of what they thought was different, from which they refused to cooperate economically with that annihilation. And there will come a day, which we hope will be as soon as possible, in which this Parliament, without debate, without question, by institutional declaration, says, all of us, that in this country no one should ever have killed, extorted, kidnapped or threatened for imposing a political project or for the sake of the State; that no torturer or terrorist should have been killed, because they both had to be tried; that killing was wrong, and that recognizing that evil past is the best contribution for no one to find in the future any justification or accompaniment, neither political nor social, to repeat the worst of our history as Basques. The Socialists are going to work for that day, and we are going to do it with our best efforts. As today, from responsibility, we do what is in our hands, and from the most scrupulous legality, to favor that ETA culminates what it has pending. And it's okay that he does, but he doesn't deserve a single round of applause. We owe her nothing, and she owes us everything. He's doing what he should've done a long time ago. And, as the governments of Spain and France have said, no one can prevent weapons that are in the hands of a terrorist organization from passing into the hands of justice. For the socialists it is better this situation than that of the previous five years, and above all that of the previous fifty years, without any doubt, but the day when we could stop looking under the car already shed tears of joy for regaining life. Today we have to repeat that there are no divestitures in exchange for ETA doing the only thing it can do, which is disappearing and making it easier for so many families to complete their mourning knowing who is responsible for their suffering. Because it is those families, those of the 858 murdered, those of the thousands of wounded, those of the tens of thousands of threatened, that have to be present at that time. It is the first memory that we had when we confirmed that ETA was setting the date for its final end: the memory of police officers, prison officials, comrades of our party (many, too many) and other parties present here, entrepreneurs, judges, teachers, journalists, those who were killed, those who were extortioned, those who had to be exiled, and that great majority who, despite knowing that we were mentioned, stayed in this country so that terror would not overcome freedom. They and they are the true artisans of peace, the workers and workers of memory, the architects of coexistence. And today, again, the Basque Socialists expressly commit themselves to that final end of ETA, from legality and without conditions, and reiterate our commitment to active work to lay an unquestionable ethical foundation. Grounds for delegitimizing terror, to make it clear to everyone that there was never a political reason or a State reason for anyone to see their most elementary right to life and integrity violated. And so that the victims are recognized and repaired, all from responsibility, from loyalty. And, returning to Gesto's message for Peace, we are also proud to have been part of the civil society of this country that faced the ethical prostration to advance towards human dignity, because we thought that Euskadi deserved it, as today we deserve ETA to leave what is in the hands of justice and dissolve.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u70	Thank you. In the initiative proposed by both parties, or by these parliamentary groups, we have presented a sort of solution in this process of disarming of the two parties. It is true that the text created in this legislature (for this view) has had its reflection on other institutions, hues, hues, and the rest of Navarrians; but it is to this day to speak of a part in that part, which must be the end of violence, namely, of disarming it. There are two important things here: and then, of course, each one will examine himself, and they may be of different care, but he has not invented to disarm himself, he has left down his weapons, and he has not invented them. Then the responsibility of governments, of one and the other... It is also evident that the Spanish Government, by an analysis whatever it may be, did not wish to confirm the reality of the decision which had been made between them, and consequently all delays have been made. But I think we ought to emphasise in two sentences the situation we now live in: one, and the other, is a stage after, and is and is gone. We are sure, therefore, that the effect of the armed struggle, which we have at least, should be managed by the soldiers, and that they would certainly facilitate the disappearance of the army. That's why the initiative we're presenting has two... , three points. The demand is, in a certain sense, a confession, but it is required for us to disarm, being a decision which has no retreat, that it may be all, that it may be assured and proved. We're asking the international inspection committee... We appreciate the work they've done. We're asking him to put them in a similar process, as far as he can, in order to make sure and legal, knowing he has to talk to other governments too. And we call the Spanish Government, not to hinder, to facilitate, as far as possible. And it seems that such a thing is difficult, but if what has happened so far has happened, it has been a little more or less because these columns have not been completed. Let's go back to the most important thing. Our old men, even those who worked in politics for many years, said, "It's easy to take arms in making their analysis; it's hard to quit." And "Arming, using and quitting is not an amateur," as a politician has written in a politician who has had a great institutional office. It's not an anekdota. Arms aren't just bureaucratia, because the suffering they've caused is a terrible pain they've caused. Therefore it is important that we make up our minds to leave our weapons, but in this context, knowing what they are used for. And we're here on a parliament. We know that difference, too, has been used by political purposes. They wished to obtain political ends, hoping that violence would alter the positions of one and the other. So there's a test for us, too. It's important to decide why it's not just to leave the weapons alone, it's not to suffer any more, it doesn't hurt any more. But this suffering, this pain, was meant to be conditioned by politics. Hence some questions remain, and are said, and some of them seek to characterize and to disarm as political figures. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why didn't the Basque People create it? and some of them founded it, and did not have permission from the people. Some of them created him, and we know how he suffered all these years. That's why I think about it because we had the chance to talk to some people in his time. We were saying, "When you leave your guns, you don't owe this town to you, do you? You owe yourself to this town. You owe peace to this people, respect, and perhaps even forgiveness when you leave your weapons." It's been a day. That's why it's very important how these political times work out, and it's just the role for fun. Therefore, as in the head of this government, we wish first to acknowledge to the President all the work which he has hitherto done with complete discretion, and at the same time to ask the Government to continue to be related to this law of law, of course, to make up in the future those new scenes. And at least I'd like to work out a concept that can end up on me. The peace of Euscadi and euscal society has two sides or two dimensions: the one of reconciliation, and the other of political normalization, but both of them are connected with human rights, and likewise with justice. And both require, both of them, that all these actions which have been unjust, and that all these subjugations of human rights, should be appealed to. And how to lay down arms is not an an anectite, and not only weapons, but weapons have been used, they have created suffering, a couple of questions which might be asked in the General Assembly of Gipulia, the question remained, because it was worth this society, even that information or reflection. Each of them from his own perspective, as a citizen, as a victim, others as a prisoner, may say, "Why has it been decided to lay down arms now five and a half years ago? Why did he take it? "I don't know. Question two. Why not now and then? And the third: are armed struggles, violence, and productive politics, marriageable? And if they're not, why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u72	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. Lehendakari, councillors, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened attentively to the words of Mr Egibar and Mr Pastor, what happens is that the demonstrations they have made, some of which I share (we did not go here in the Basque Country, the Basque Country did not create ETA, we do not owe it anything..., and I also share who were the ones who brought peace here, and the civil society that knew how to resist)..., the problem is that none of these statements that have been made are contained in the statement of the proposition that they have brought to discussion here today and that I cannot share. And I will therefore set my group's position on the text that you have brought to the House's debate. Text that I find unfortunate both in substance and in form, and certainly also in the pretension that I guess, which is the intention with which it is brought here at this time, on the eve of the disarmament announced by ETA next Saturday. Firstly, it seems to me to be a humiliating position for a democratic parliament to address a terrorist organization by urging it, as if it were another political factor, as if it were a normalised political agent, as if it were a public institution or a political agent or a social agent. I sincerely believe that those of us who are represented in this Parliament are not just represented by having received the citizens' vote, we are not just represented by those citizens. We too are representatives of the law, of the law, of democracy, of dignity, of that democracy that citizens feel. We're representatives of that. How, then, can we put Parliament on an equal footing with a terrorist organization that has caused nothing but harm and pain on this earth? I sincerely believe that you should reflect on how unfortunate it is to urge; not even ask, not even demand, but put into that approach, in that attitude. Why? Why is it also said that a verification carried out by international observers in a disarmament process is needed, when verification, of course, must be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies, by the judges, by those who have the necessary information to be able to carry it out, to whom they have always been verifying everything that relates to the activities of that terrorist organization? How can a recognition be made, Mr Pastor, contrary to exactly the words that you have spoken here recently in your speeches, to that civil society to which this proposal refers, to those so-called peace artisans? Where were those so-called peacemakers? What's your trajectory? What's your resume? Where have they always been, defending, also supporting ETA crimes at the time they were taking place? And finally, the governments of Spain and France, which are two democratic nations based on the rule of law, are invited to assist in the process. I want to say that it is clear that no government opposes the delinquency in relation to criminal activity, and that for all of us it is good for ETA to assume its defeat, and it is good for ETA to assume that its defeat cannot obtain absolutely any price in return. And that in that sense – and that's what I think – what's going to happen on Saturday is a staging of the surrender of that terrorist gang. But I would have liked this proposition to say, this proposition to be demanding. That this Parliament should demand that ETA dissolve and disappear permanently from our lives. Let him acknowledge the damage he has caused, let him naturally ask for forgiveness, let him work with justice to clarify the crimes that are still unresolved. A few days ago Fernando Altuna died, he was my friend. His father was killed by ETA. His crime was never cleared up. He could not live without having been repaired, without having received that justice; therefore he died. This is far more important than it seems. Are those the weapons that were used with these crimes, or are we also going to steal that part of the truth that so many victims need to know? I would have liked that to be asked, and I would also have liked this Parliament to be able to condemn not only the past exercise of violence, but also to say, "It was wrong to kill." The illegitimate, perverse root of the ideology that supported the use of violence must be condemned. In the end, do they kill guns, kill those boys whose lives were ruined because they turned them into killers, or what kills? It kills the idea, it kills the political will to impose a totalitarian project in Euskadi, to physically eliminate the political adversary. That's what he killed, and that's what we still have to defeat. And there is that idea, and the radical condemnation of that ideology that led to the throwing of boys to wield arms and to destroy their lives and the lives of others, and to cause the damage, the pain that continues to afflict Basque society. But none of that is contained in this statement either; not even a recognition that there was a part of civil society that was courageous. Today, this morning, they were gathered in San Sebastian making a manifesto. They're people who are intellectually engaged, people who are informed. They risked their lives, raised their voices at a time when it was very difficult to do so. And they're not from my party (some of them are from their party, or they've been in the Basque Nationalist Party or they've been in the Socialist Party), but they are genuine representatives of dignity. And the manifesto you have read to me today seems to me to be a manifesto for dignity at the end of ETA. So the question I ask myself is why this proposal is necessary, which in my opinion is a democratic nonsense, when it is expressed in a chamber which actually has to represent that feeling of dignity which is the majority in Basque society. Why is it necessary? Frankly, incorporate in some way, or echo the propaganda with which ETA wants to camouflage the defeat it is suffering, and camouflage also the fact that it has obtained absolutely nothing, because nobody has negotiated with them, that we are doing it today... Why are we doing this? Are we really doing this out of democratic conviction? Are you doing it for political calculation? I have wondered in this rostrum why ETA lasted so long. ETA lasted so long because ETA always had political support and social support. ETA began to die of starvation when his political arm was illegalized and he was left with that political support. And the path of social disarmament of ETA is not over, there is still a part of society that has not come out of there, and I understand that you want to rescue it, but at what price do you want to rescue that part of society that remained outside democracy in support, in support of ETA and its crimes? At what price? The legislature has started here by lowering the ethical ground in the demand of EH Bildu, many of whose members come from that past, so that they could join a presentation of peace and memory of Parliament. And now this: clapping, saying... IS ETA an actor in peace, is an actor who is bringing us peace, because he stopped killing after being defeated by the rule of law and now hand over the weapons because he has to assume his surrender? We cannot pay those prices, because they are prices that affect our deepest convictions and the very essence of democracy, and the dignity of this House. And that's why we can't support him. I'm worried about where the legislature's going. I do not think that is really the way forward in that social disarmament and in the definitive delegitimization of violence. Yesterday there was a photograph in which we were not (we were not invited, we would not have come). I saw Mr. Otegi, a confessed terrorist, very satisfied, and said, "It has been a good day for some and it has been a bad day for others." Probably said it was a bad day for us. We have, frankly, had much worse days, many very bad days here. We have always been able to maintain our position; we have shared it with you, with a majority of this House, in those very bad days. But for him it was a good day, because he had managed to establish a sanitary cord around the People's Party, because he had managed to be the one who was legitimately accepted in an image that brings peace, in the image of the end of terror, and because some of those who have suffered the most, some of those who have fought the most and some of those who have argued the most, who are also those who are this morning or have been this morning in San Sebastian, had no place in that photo. Because I was able to draw from that image, from that symbol of the end of terrorism, those who were really architects that ETA did not get anything after forty years of murder and extortion to the whole of Basque society. And he was satisfied, and he thought that was a good day. I have to reproach and regret that. I know we're apparently alone. I don't feel alone; I really feel the support of a social majority who wants that dignity. And I also feel that when the years pass, when ETA has dissolved (and that will soon be), when the generations pass, in the future who reads the Journal of Sessions of the very debate that we are having today, of the debates that we hold in this House, with what position will be identified? Where are you going to find the reasonable account? Not in the understanding of ETA, not in the political calculation of saying "Hey, these have eighteen deputies, that many come from there. We're not going to offend, we're going to bother; we're going to forget, we're going to move on." Not in that political calculation! Really, seek him to maintain his convictions and to maintain his dignity. I'm sorry – I'm finishing, Madam President – I'm sorry we're being told... We are always told that (how is it?)... , that we exclude ourselves from political life in the Basque Country. Man, we just agreed on the budget, which has also been a few weeks away from it. Then the speech was... everyone else had been excluded. This is a Euskadi of self-exclusions, but I think we must also reflect on that. Political opponents have other ideas and debate is necessary and legitimate, and no one is excluded from political life because they have a different idea. Democracy only excludes those who claim to destroy it; but today democracy, far from remembering that it excludes those who claim to destroy it, collaborates in camouflaging the unconditional, priceless defeat and surrender of the terrorist band ETA, which is a cause for joy and a reason for hope for all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be wrong for those who believe that this Saturday is something to celebrate, and it will be wrong for those who believe that they win or beat someone other than the victims and peace. Those who want to bring the dispute over the story to this Saturday are also mistaken. This Saturday neither begins nor ends the peace-building process. He did not even do so when ETA declared the definitive cessation of violence. This Saturday will also be a day when it will be difficult to smile. It will be difficult because in the minds of all of us will be present the hundreds of people that ETA murdered, the thousands who were wounded, the thousands who lost a loved one, the 13,000 people who lived threatened, blackmailed, or who were in their sights. This Saturday Basque society will again see how useless decades of violence have been, how unjust the damage caused, how unjustified to believe that violence was an acceptable strategy. This Saturday Basque society we have an opportunity to move forward in what from the pacifist collectives called the social delegitimization of violence, which is nothing more than understanding that violence should never have occurred, that there was never an excuse or justification for it. That killing, torturing, kidnapping, threatening or extortion was wrong, and that was wrong from day one. That is why this disarmament is not five years late, it is five decades late. Such delegitimization of violence is more necessary than ever when faced precisely with the weapons that made violence possible. That is why this Saturday will be a time for us collectively to critically review the past; a past in which suffering and pain were sadly imposed. For all this, the Sabbath is a day for us all to reflect calmly together, to reflect without reproach and without adjustments of accounts pending, on what has happened in these decades on our earth. This Saturday will talk about ETA, but we are aware that it has not been the only violence; moreover, not even the disarmament of ETA itself will end with the surrender of weapons. In our country, violence has had a direct, very harsh dimension. I have previously cited the obvious victims of this violence, but there was also cultural violence, a violence that soaked up every day, the daily life of coexistence, until it was fractured in many cases. That violence had to do with the word, with gestures, with attitudes and behaviors. That other violence must also be disarmed, that other violence must also be delegitimized. And if you allow me a small amount of discursive excess, disassembling that subtler, less obvious but equally harmful violence is as important or more than the first. Today we have come to this point, to this milestone (taste more or less, it is a milestone), for many reasons. It is clear, and at first he quoted it, that the dispute over the narrative of this end of violence has caused this disarmament to come late (if disarmament does not always come late); it has caused this disarmament to have lived chapters that are difficult to explain and difficult to accept, chapters that sometimes fell into ridicule, it is true, and that in others they scratched the grotesque. We cannot overlook the fact that the primary and primary responsibility for disarmament lies with ETA. It was she who was made with the weapons, and therefore it was she who had to see how to proceed to get rid of them. But it is no less true that governments – and I refer primarily to the Spanish Government – had a political and even moral duty to make such disarmament happen as soon as possible and in the best possible conditions of security and immediacy, and it has been this lack of diligence on the part of the states that has led to such a particular alternative as forcing civil society to fill that absence from the state. Frankly, I think we were all imagining disarmament in other keys, but this is what we have, this is the possible one, and it is not going to be because of a lack of political responsibility, rigour or historical sense of the political forces that we represent in this failed coalition. They say that sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. Perhaps these are not the best conditions for disarmament, but from each of the political forces we participate in Elkarrekin We cannot spare resources and commitments to facilitate their development and to ensure two fundamental issues: that disarmament is unilateral, and that it has no counterpart. I want to dwell particularly on those issues. I believe that they are important to the victims, precisely the people who have suffered the most from these weapons. This Saturday there cannot be a demonstration of strength by ETA, there cannot be an arms exhibition, it cannot be that the weapons take on a protagonist that must be that of the victims, that of peace and that of coexistence. This disarmament is unilateral and has no counterpart. By disarming, ETA is not going to achieve any political goal; it is not even going to have our gratitude or our recognition. Abandoning weapons is not heroic or laudable; it is simply to respond to the majority will of Basque society, it is simply to assume as absolute ethical and political the human rights and inviolable dignity of everyone. This is so basic, it doesn't deserve any prize. He said the victims must be the protagonists. I am aware of the manifestation that these days have made many of them, but also of those that have made others. For the victims this Saturday must represent an advance in their right to the truth. Up to a third of ETA's attacks are unclarified. The delivery of weapons this Saturday may allow the authorship and circumstance of some of these attacks to be clarified. We think that's a good thing. We think it's a basic right of every victim. But above all this Saturday, another question has to be made clear: the peace-building process, the desire for a democratic coexistence, will have taken another step, and will have given it thanks to the efforts of civil society, will have done so with political, trade union and social support unknown in a long time. Yesterday's photo, with almost all the parties, represents an unprecedented advance in this area, an advance that we will work to consolidate in the future. However, it is undeniable, and we have just seen, that in that picture there was a lack of strength, which is the People's Party. In the last few months in this House we have not spared sincere, humble and respectful appeals to join the Paper of Memory and Coexistence. Today we want to make the same appeal to you again. We are not asking you to give up your ideas, your legitimate positions. We are calling you to be able to sit at the same table and be able to debate and, if necessary, reach agreements. Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party are in the antipodes on many issues, it is obvious, but we want to tell you again that you do not have us left in Euskadi, that you do not have us left with the Ponence of Peace and that you do not have us left with the story that we have to build among all of you. And that the suffering that you have suffered, along with the suffering that you have also suffered other political forces that exist in this House, and in solitude for not a short time, is not indifferent to us. He said at the outset that the peace-building process was not born with the declaration of the cessation of violence by ETA. It did so when Basque society decided to protest at every act that violated human rights. And he said that it did not end this disarmament, not even the dissolution of ETA: it will end when we have been able to establish a fully democratic coexistence in Euskadi; when the political identity plurality of our society, of the Basque being, is recognized as something positive for all; when no one believes that violence is a resource in the face of the conflicts proper to any complex society; when, for the radicality of human rights, a true culture of peace has permeated to the last corner of our society. And to reach that point, it will be essential that all violence, whatever kind, be exercised by whoever exercised it, be delegitimized, and the rights to the truth, justice and reparation of the victims (of all, without exception) are recognized. I conclude by expressing a solemn commitment of the political forces to whom I represent, a solemn commitment in the most important place of representation of Basque citizenship. In Elkarrekin We are going to leave our skins to continue moving towards peace and coexistence, we are not going to spare any effort. We will discuss and reach all the agreements that are necessary to make it possible. And we will always do so with human rights and the dignity of the victims as principles. That is why today we will vote in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u75	Mr Martínnez, thank you. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I must admit, I was delighted with this discussion today, with satisfaction, and I thought, besides, that these feelings would be shared here. Some observations have attempted to make this shared satisfaction, this feeling of satisfaction sad, but I think that we are present in the presence of a good argument. This decision of ours will be good news in this parliament too, and from this resolution, the stage on which it will be opened will be good news, the new possibilities which will be opened, and the new phase which will be extended from this Saturday. Five years ago, it's true, we had a promise. Mr. Egibar has spoken of this, and that the decision of the body should not be resumed, so that the battle should be put to an end. And now it will pass through that word into action, and the word will become a practical step. Now, because we have a step on this Saturday, and we have a step towards peace, I want to think of a strong step, a practical step, a definite step, an eternal step, and a visible step. This movement of disarming will take place on this Saturday, and I think that we are living an historic moment, because we meet with an old cycle of closing up and a new spreading cycle, at this very point, because we find ourselves at the same moment at that same point in this very point of fluid point. A few months ago, EH Collect fired a document to help him build peace in this town. We called it "the eupascal solution," and there the 68 resolutive actions were to happen, so as to ensure the movements. We made four sections, four carrirals, or plan them: the confession and observation of all the victims, the reparation of the state of prisoners and fugitives, and the demilitation of the country. Four different carrials, each his motive, his logic, his conditions, his circumstances, his chances, and even his difficulties. We said that progressing in a car should help, even in the other charries, be a builder of progress. On this Sabbath the character of destruction shall be executed with one single act, and with one stroke the disarming of the weapon shall be executed. It's going to end up what you've got to do in this tent. We must say that we are satisfied with it, that it is a good news, and that the ojal should be the defining and final steps of it in the other Carries! On Saturday, the disarmament of ETA will take place, and, as pointed out in the initiative we are discussing today, there are several actors who are called to assist in this necessary step to advance the path of peace. The first, the ETA itself. After expressing his word, ceasing armed action, and expressing his will to disarmament, that word and that will now become effective. It will go from words to deeds. From this very Saturday, ETA becomes an unarmed actor, a harmless organization, risk-free for nothing and no one. And, from my point of view, this is a very valuable contribution to that requirement that international agencies are also repeating to us, of guarantees of non-repetition of human rights violations. It is not the only contribution that must be made, because, unfortunately, there are other expressions of violence, other violations of human rights that must also be ensured that they will not happen again, as Amnesty International recently recommended to us in this very House. But, no doubt, I say again that it is a very important contribution, a great step. It would have been logical if other actors, particularly the Spanish and French states, had also responded positively to that will, but at this point I would say that, since they are no longer expected to facilitate or act positively, at least we hope that they will not put any more obstacles or difficulties. Instead, and we recognize this in the proposal to be voted on today, civil society has been activated, it has been launched, it has been put to work. And this is an element, an unmatched fact in any other international scenario of resolution. I must admit that I have always had a certain healthy envy of what was happening in Ipar Euskal Herria: the breadth, political plurality, the height of the eyes of the political agents, with whom they were responding to the new opportunities opened up. An extension that also exhausted the entire sociological spectrum, the entire political spectrum, with the exception of the National Front of Marine Le Pen. Something that I believe is being shaped here by yesterday's declaration of trade union and political agents, which brings us the reflection of that breadth and pluralism of Iparralde. I would say that some parallelism can also be established even in the absences: here, like the National Front there, there are also those who have actually preferred to exclude themselves from good decisions, reasonable positions and broad agreements. Thirdly, it was precise, and we demand, the actions of individuals, agencies and international institutions of recognized prestige that would bring their knowledge, good offices, spirit, patience, even inspiration to be able to move forward in a positive and constructive way, and also to verify, without any doubt, that the process has been successfully completed. Finally, it was necessary to certify the contribution that the Basque public institutions were going to make, which, through the statement that we are going to support today, will contribute to this shared objective. All the instruments are on the table, all the ingredients are on the table, and on Saturday the ETA disarmament process will be completed, to which I want to show the satisfaction of Euskal Herria Bildu. Some have spoken to the past today, and have made their discourses, and we, without forgetting the past, wish to look into the future. There's plenty to do in the future, but I can't deny that we're on a new stage. Today we want to take another step. And to take this step, I want to emphasise one more item: we have come to this Chamber with an important agreement between us today. We have a text, we have an expression, we will approve a decision, it's a text that doesn't deserve correction, and it's a text that the agreement has been looking for. For me, rather than the precise words which appear in that text, I consider it more important than text to produce in context the shared will which we now express here. We are ready to do it together, and moreover we have done it among these several, and I wish to put it in value, because the end deserves it, because with this decision we are helping things to come to pass, in a positive and constructive manner. It's not just a statement from my point of view, but an initiative in political reality, beyond distractions, that's true, because we're going to take the side of what unites us to-day. I want to emphasise a few words from yesterday's exhibition. In the union ceremony, the "unarmation of the word" was demanded, "to conduct our legitimate circumstances democraticly and humanly, and to give value to the conversation and negotiation of managing revolt." And I'm staying with these words today, and I want to remark these words, and I want to explain the commitment to the EH Collection on those words. I find it difficult to oppose it; there must be a great deal of explanation against it, and I think that society will certainly receive the consent which we are here to arrive at. It's a good news that I'm going to end with this Françoise, and, to be honest, we haven't done much of this to our country in the past few years. Let it be the beginning of a road to establish peace, to work for life, to work for political normalization, to accommodate focus to agreement rather than to discrepancy. Let's keep bringing good news to this town in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u78	I'm not going to use the replica shift to cast reproaches on anyone, I think it's not the day, but I did think it was important to make some reflections. Who could have thought fifteen years ago, or ten, or eight, that we could be at the moment we are today? Who could have thought that there would be an announcement of the unilateral cessation of the terrorist struggle by ETA, that unilateral disarmament by ETA would be produced, and that it would, I hope, be dissolved as soon as possible? Probably none of us in this room had any possibility of mental character to imagine a reality like the one we have now. I think that's the most important thing we have on the table today. Beyond nuances, languages, discrepancies, political positions, I think that is the fundamental part that we should all value today, because, in the end, I think the issue deserves it and is important, right? An appeal was made to Governments, to the attitude of Governments. Well, honestly, it is not the governments who have the obligation to disarm – we said in the previous intervention – that is not the governments. He's the one with the guns, which is ETA. But even the French and Spanish governments themselves are keeping a low profile position, so as not to interfere, so that this issue may arise, Mr Alonso. His own Government maintained a measured position on that occasion. I think it's an important element to put on the table. You were talking about some intellectuals and victims who had gathered and who were representatives of democratic dignity, pride... I agree with that. But also you, who are sitting on that bench, and we and thousands and thousands of anonymous and not so anonymous citizens, who have been able to withstand the push of terrorism and resist with democratic dignity. We too are worthy, and we too are credible when we make an affirmation like the one we wanted to make here today. I am not saying this to you in any spirit of reproach, because you and we – I have told you more times – have shared and share many things in the same trench, and I think that is important. You were talking about the photo, and I want to end this. I have to admit, I didn't really like that picture. I would have liked a lot more if you'd been in that picture too. That it would have been you, too. Because the fact that Mr. Otegi, whom you named, was in that picture doesn't mean that we've gone to Mr. Otegi's postulates. No, no! The other way around! It is Mr Otegi who has gone to share a position with the rest of the political forces. Do not give him an award that does not correspond to him at this political moment, Mr Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u80	I, too, have not much intention or inclination for discussion. And what's going on with the positive and qualified, even though the guilt and care that's going to happen five and a half years later are involved in it, it's going to argue, in the case of Popula or his government all this time. It was because he had applied a one-sided strategy from the first, and this had not been expected. But, well, that'll talk us into other debates, or chats. But if I were positively equipped, here again is the discourse of victory, isn't it? Victory must be conquered. Eta Alderdi Popularrak drinking diskurtsoa dauka, bathing positiboki baloratzen haveen artean era – lehen aipatu dut euskaraz–... There are also those who say that, although some are determined to deny it, the resistant have won, and ultimately the weapons is a simple anecdote, because it is ultimately only iron. And that's what the former deputy general wrote. In the face of such a reflection, some also reflective response, without trying to zaherir, will have to be given. That is why I do feel the satisfaction that the decision will finally materialize; a decision that means disarming, not using weapons. And the weapons used, applied, even with that political motivation, intended not only to do harm, but also to condition politics. Therefore, there are many reasons to show satisfaction. That's why I was asking why the armed struggle has been left behind. And he says, "No, don't debate that now." No, no! It is that the reasoning is important for having come to that conclusion, and why now yes and not ten, fifteen or thirty years ago. And, of course, an answer to these questions can give satisfaction, because I do not know whether citizenship in general, the victims, or even the prisoners when certain decisions are made that are strategic, that involve even a personal affection. And if politics and armed struggle are compatible or incompatible, and why they are not. I think that's the key. And it's a good news, but let's put it on its own account, why this expression about it upsets all our joy. So I mentioned it at a previous debate, and how I am very fond of what Leotychides says, 'I do not dream much, I do not offer a fine heaven,' he said to himself, when the utopia and the others were arguing about it, and the people asked him, 'And you are radical, and think what?' "I don't know. And he says in the explanation of his letters: "Well, I said no, no." And he comes to the subject and says: "Why tell foolish tales in the middle of the street, And destroy young men worth their lives? I don't believe in sudden deliverance long ago, I don't dream much, I don't offer beautiful heavens." Well, I want to stop with the positive side. We must build the future, we speak of human rights; they are clabes to me, respect, and our positions may be true, not apparent. A new time comes, and I see many apparent and superficial positions. There's still a lot of hate between us. There's hate between us and if we have to get to that reality, we'll have to take a step. And therefore every one his own: Like the law, it's just fun, it's his and political parties and society hiss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u82	Thank you very much. Truly Mr Arzuaga has the quality to express himself very clearly. Perhaps too clearly, because, of course, as he does, he manages to put in an uncomfortable position those who have come to some agreement with you. It is really uncomfortable for me to hear this in this House and not to say anything, and to be announced that from Saturday ETA is an "innocent" organization. Mr Egibar wondered why this had happened, but he does not want to accept my thesis, which is reality. And I have to tell this truth. It's the truth, and it's very significant. And very significant also for our lives, Mr. Pastor. The myths that crumble. First, ETA was not invincible. When I was young I was told, "You can't win ETA, it's invincible." Many people thought that, and said: "There will be negotiations, there will be compromises, there will be some kind of understanding. There is a conflict, this is the expression. ETA is not vanquishable, it cannot be defeated by police means." That's what they were telling us, that was the speech! Look, here in the Basque Country there were people who thought that naturally you could and that you should defeat ETA. And the news now, and the news that is expressed on Saturday, is that democracy has won terrorism. He has won, which has not been easy, but of course there is a winner, and the winner is democracy. And this House cannot steal that victory from the Basques who moved, nor from the rule of law that is the one that cornered the terrorists. But ETA is not an innocuous organization. Because, who killed, did they kill the guns? He killed the man who held the weapons, he killed the idea he wanted to impose on democracy in the Basque Country. That idea was killing. So, we have a way to repudiate that idea and to make sure that there is no room for it today or in the future in the Basque Country, and that this is profoundly delegitimized. Because that idea that continues to hold ETA – a harmless organization, according to Mr Arzuaga – that idea has not yet been defeated. And, therefore, there is no time for comfort, Mr. Pastor: "We have already finished the work, we can already be comfortable." Do we then hide our convictions, because we are afraid to be alone (to see what they will tell us!)? It's not time for comfort, there's a lot of work to do. This isn't over! ETA is going to dissolve. It won't even end when ETA dissolves! It is many years, it is still many people who are in the understanding of what happened or who are looking for alibis to justify why that could happen in a civilized, mature, advanced society, as is Basque society. Or the one who still has a hard time looking at his conscience and saying, "Why did I look the other way?". Or that he has a wound, that he has a wound because he suffered. That doesn't close in two days. Of course, it does not close by saying that ETA is an innocuous organization, or with Mr Arzuaga's absolutely rejectable speech, which wants to convince us that the one who brings peace to ETA is ETA. What the hell is that? So I think we have a lot of work to do, and that today we take a step back. Because it is very good that ETA is disarmed, but not that we give this satisfaction this morning, this satisfaction of the day before, posthumously, to an organization that is already, as I have insisted, absolutely defeated. I don't know if this tarnishes her joy, but ETA was not invincible. She was defeated, and she surrendered. It is incomprehensible that it took five years, after they stopped killing, to hand over the weapons. Every day that happens until they dissolve remains incomprehensible. But I tell you one thing: do not expect absolutely no counterpart, no favor, no price. ETA will have what is appropriate to it according to the law, and therefore that is the only thing that can be expected. And it's the only thing he could expect from the very moment he committed the first of his attacks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u84	Well, I'll be short, because I think our position is clear, and mostly because I don't want to come in here when I see you. We've repeated it many times in this parliament, I'll repeat it again, on account of what I've heard, that I don't want to get into the world's fight. We don't want to see today that what's at the game on Saturday is that the game is at stake and that at last he'll be unarmed and that there's nothing to thank him for doing this. Hence, even this, the disputes which we had today, and the replications we had today, make it clear that there is still a great deal of work to do, but also we have in this legislature several space, several places, and so many wills to follow us in this work. It is true, therefore, from now on, that we must look to the future without forgetting the past, by disemboweling violence, and, even if we wish to open a relatto, to build a shared relatto, and to have shared it as a foundation for this violence. And, as I have said before, not only the violence of right violence, or the violence of arms, but also the different forms of violence, cultured violence, and several things which are still installed in this people. So from now on we hope that all the political forces in these spaces are still there, we hope the photograph we had yesterday is still on our way. Yesterday there was a big part of society in that photo, all the unions, almost all the parties, with one lack, and we miss this, too, the lack of it. And therefore, if I have spoken of the past before, I now call upon the future, and though it is not the Sabbath a day of joy, it is true, that it is a good news, and that it is not armed, and that it will be a good news, and finally dissolve and finish its exercise. And we, like members of the legislature, are supposed to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u85	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In conclusion, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u86	Thanks again. Well, I hear he's insisting on the political basis of this conflict, which has often been Mr. Alfonso's position. He says there's an idea under there, and I can agree, but I'm not going to follow that, because I'm sure you'll say I talk too clearly. I said it and I say it again... I was thinking, today, that we had a discussion about some good news, and that good news, which, in a way, has upset itself because so many new considerations, so many new exigences, and so many criticisms have been thrown on this table. Mr. Egibar asked why it was now and not before. Well, we share that frustration with you, too. For it was the frequent saying that in three, five years it could be repaired in a very reasonable way, that it ended in the long decades, and that frustration too, I have (and not before). And perhaps I want to record something in this, and that is, perhaps, as it is often said, the position of the EH Collector is not marked by the position he has in relation to and by, but by the position of the end of his conduct or violence, which has been that denominator we have had, and it has been ordered, logical, in a reasonable way, that we want to end it in some way. It couldn't be otherwise. That's how he came. We wanted to discuss it in a way we agreed and negotiated, and I think you've also signed such expressions. He couldn't hold it that way. This stage we've got today, it's a good stage from the EH Collectation point and it's a good place to be happy. A couple of mentions, because there are opening up many expectations about the clarification of the cases with the weapons that are going to appear on Saturday, and I ask myself some questions. As, for example, in all those police operations that have occurred in recent years, in which some weapons have also been seized from ETA, how many cases have clarified, served to clarify? Because I think there are continuing expectations about this, and I find it worrying. And I share an idea that I heard yesterday from Vicenç Fisas, a conflict expert, who said it would be incomprehensible to claim reprisals against whom he is voluntarily disarming himself. Because I don't think that's exactly what you're looking for, to clarify the facts. In other words, we are not seeking the truth, but we are seeking precisely to impose punishment, an attitude of revenge, which from my point of view also makes it difficult for this people to establish coexistence. We have always asked for a commission for the truth. We're not afraid of the truth. We're not afraid of the truth. But I also ask another question: if one speaks of clarification, who can clarify the whereabouts of José Miguel Goikoetxea "Naparra", unsuccessfully searched this same week in some places in Las Landas? Today we have learned that, in the case of Sandra Barrenetxea, the four civilian guards accused of torturing her have been acquitted. How do we clarify these facts? How are these circumstances clarified? [[Berber]] Mr. Alonso tells us that there is a scene for the defeat or surrender of ETA this weekend in Baiona, and he asks me, won't you be there, Mr. Alonso? They talk about camouflage, they talk about these acts being a paraphernalia, a theatricalization, but I understand that the promoters have never used those terms, nor have they had that will in making the call. I think you're trying to ridicule what's going to happen this Saturday, and when you're trying to ridicule you run the risk of making a fool of yourself. The form of expression of civil society, which is the real protagonist of these acts, is through public meetings, through concentrations as massive and as plural as possible. I think there are going to be other acts that I wouldn't dare to ridicule at all, but they won't be so broad and they won't be so plural. The organizers of Baiona have said that this act will also involve respect for all the victims. I believe that attempts have been made to discredit these peacemakers, the civil society involved, and I would like to claim them precisely for the risks they have decided to take, for their contribution, also for their inspiration. And I demand and demand that we and we also be peacemakers and peacemakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u87	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. At this point, I've decided to cut the pella. Some people want to continue, but at four o'clock we can be here unless they're short. That's why. There's a chance to continue, but... The spokesman? [[Berber]] I said it. Cut? We'll go to the vote, we'll do the vote. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the Parlamentarian People of Euscal, which changes the 13/1988 Act of the October of the Basque School Council. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." We'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered in detail or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u88	So we consider the legal proposition. The second point is, whether we consider the bill of law made by the Parlamentarian Political Group, which is changed to the Sustament and Transformation of Industrial Industrie by the 10th of June 5/1981 Act. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u89	So we consider the legal proposition. In the third place, "The legal proposition made by the Parliamental Podemos, about the acquisition of additional revenues to the Great West of Eucharis, whether it be considered or not." We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u90	So it's not a question of legal proposal. At the fourth point, "whether we consider changing the 1/1988 bill of law made by the Polydemos, Tribunal Vasco de Cuentas Públicas/ People's Civil Court in February 5th, 1988." We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u91	So he accepts it unanimously. Point 5: "To discuss the other proposition of the Parliamentary EH Collecting Group, the necessity of reopening CSN's resolution and of the Ministry of Power that can come in that sense." We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u92	So we accept the original text of the EHG As a Group. Sixth Point: "To discuss first the Eubertians and the Sociists of Escali, as the parlamentary groups did, and the unarmation of them." We can vote for another legal proposal. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u93	So, accepts original text. I interrupt the entire meeting until 1:30 p.m. The meeting was interrupted at two o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u94	The seventh point on the theme list: "Phum up the proposition of the parliamentary band, concerning the state which the citizens of the Uover, Bizicus, and Gipuzian, have made in the United Kingdoms, after the manner of their fellow-citizens in the United Kingdoms of the United States, after the manner which they have made in the United States. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. problemon, representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u95	women: Thank you, Mr. President. To-day I wish to speak of society, of fear, of rights and duties, after all, of our work, don't I? Because this too is brexit. And first I will present the facts, then the possible consequences, and finally our duties. Facts. How often it seems that nothing happens, that everything remains the same. But we are mistaken, "The only thing that is unalterable," said Heraclitus. And so, on the 23rd of June 2016, the United Kingdom voted for the bruxit, and on the 29th of March 2017, Theresa May asked the President of the European Committee to apply the article of the treaty of Lisbon. Now the negotiation process begins, and this process will be terminated on March 29th, 2019. Even this week, the ground to negotiate the bruxit has been accepted in the European Parliament. This theme contains many vertices. It is evident in the European Union what is most troublesome, and which has most cause of uneasiness even in the Basque People. And that's what we brought to this parliament today. And when we say that this concern is shared by the Parliament of Europe, we are to say, which of them was put in the report as a red line, and that the interests of the United States of the European Union and of the European Union which inhabit the United States of the United States are to be observed, and that, to begin with, they will not accept the change of the present situation until they have agreed to a brexit, and they even put the note into this report: The British who are in the European Union will receive the same treatment as the inhabitants of the United Kingdom if London wishes to obtain commercial contract. If anything has been clearly discovered during these months, the British Government is ready to maintain its citizens as hostages during the negotiation process. And I do not say that in the form made by the Chamber of Lords, they were also connected with the Government in the right they had obtained, and that they had no answer from Theresa May's Government. At this moment in the United Kingdom, three million citizens of the European Union live, and they insisted on accepting the rights of the emigrants at the Chamber of Lords, although the Chamber of Commons had repulsed this demand. These are the facts that have happened before. So, what are the possible consequences? What will happen to the citizens' rights, the rights of the Basque People in the United Kingdom, or to the citizen of the United Kingdom who lives in the Basque Country? As time progressed, the European Union has defined many rights and a great number of duties; a great number of laws, from employment to free commerce, from intellectual property to finance. And all these can change in the United Kingdom with the brexit. What then are the cares of those who live in the United Kingdom, who are at work, or of those who are learning? What great rights of society can be altered? It is plain that the Parliaments of Europe are the rights of the people. Because the status of European citizenship has been established in the Maastricht Treaty since 1993, although I think we all remember that moment when Rajoy got a little involved when he was asked about citizenship and Catalonia, and he asked if they would not lose their citizenship. "And the European one?" that famous phrase: "What about the European one?". Well, the journalist perfectly explained to Rajoy that anyone who has citizenship in a Member State of the European Union has the citizenship of the European Union, and consequently acquires a number of rights under the terms of the treaty. Among other things, they are the right of persons to move and reside freely within the European Union, which in fact constitutes the cornerstone of Union citizenship; the right to vote actively and passively in elections to the European Parliament as well as to the municipal authorities of the State in which they reside, under the same conditions as nationals of that State; and the right to benefit, in the territory of a third country or state which does not belong to the European Union and in which the Member State to which they belong is not represented, from the protection of diplomatic and consular authorities of any Member State under the same conditions as nationals of that State. It is also true that the 2004 Directive on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to move and reside freely in the territory of the Member States recasts the various measures scattered in other areas. These include measures to facilitate the exercise of the right of free movement and residence of citizens of the European Union, to reduce administrative procedures as strictly as necessary, to provide a better definition of the status of family members, to limit the possibility of refusing or terminating residence, and to introduce the right of permanent residence. All individual rights deriving from this directive should apply to every citizen of the Union, in any of its Member States. Unlike immigration regulations, there is no need for the consent of the State to implement them. And here arises the problem which may be in the United Kingdom with our fellow-citizens: Any citizen of the European Union acquires a right to a permanent abode in this State after five years' life in another State. But this having once said, another question has been introduced in the United Kingdom, and it is that, though they live there for five years, they cannot prove that they have a right to it. If the rights of the European Union are not maintained, the rules of immigration in the United Kingdom are applied (Immigration Rules). And these rules are determined by what condition and under what condition they may demand permission from a permanent abode, and by what means they must prove it. But these rules are more strict, more complicated, and the procedure is much longer. Trouble. Those who have not been active ekonomically, for instance those who have been students, or a member of the family who has not been working for a while, or if he has been unemployed for some time, must be proved to have been a private health service during those years, and we must also remember that NHS (The National Health Service) is free. It's not really something that's usually done. Eta hori ez da sor daitekeen orange bakarra. The document for applying for permanent residence consists of eighty-five pages, which include an entry and exit count in the United Kingdom, as well as providing multiple evidence that all requirements are met. In fact, today's data is that 28% of the petitions filed by European Union citizens were rejected or considered invalid by the authorities. But it must also be remembered that it was the Minister of the Interior who sent a letter to all these Europeans who did not complete their request well, indicating that they can no longer reside in the United Kingdom. Our people are worried too. I've just come from the United Kingdom and I've been talking to the people of the Basque House on this subject. It has been stated, among other things, that they are beginning to demand leave of dependence, as they did not before. And some get it, but some don't. Even if they are concerned, uncertainty is in the midst of these masters. Undoubtedly, not only with an administrative condition, but with what to do; Ask for British passports and lose their rights here? What's going on? What's best for them? But it's not the only concern. Changes are also happening at work: it is proposed in several companies that the position of their employment may also be altered. These are possible consequences. What are our duties then? Our obligations. Some will say that it is not our competence, but what happens to our citizens is our responsibility. Those living in the United Kingdom, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, but those living here in the United Kingdom as well. Last night, M. M. M. M.M. opened a new business office in London, which had decided to study deeply the market in the United Kingdom in 2016, and give more assistance to the euscal corporations there. I won't criticize that. Brexit is a proper estimate that it will also affect corporations, and that the Basque Country is also believed to be an industrial policy and a proper intervention, especially when it is considered that May's government is acting on this subject and that it is trying to obtain partial agreements. We take this step positively, and in the same logic, which we plan to-day, as has been done with enpresions, to step with the people, to defend the rights of the people, and, what is more important, to secure their active defence. We want, in the light of developments in the Brexit negotiations, to promote the opening of a delegation from Euskadi in the United Kingdom. We want that delegation to have a permanent channel of communication with the Basque community resident in the United Kingdom, both to receive their questions and requests and to inform and advise them. Because we care about people, we also want to have up-to-date information about everything that is of interest to them, about those citizens who decide to travel to the United Kingdom, whether for studies or for work... Whatever. What we want is that our continuity in what is the main change is also effective in this, that the citizens feel their concern is our concern, and that they will be able to share with us in the defence of their rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u96	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u97	Good evening. Thank you, President, members of the legislature. We shall now discuss the discussion and the proposal of the EH Collectors concerning the consequences which Brexie may produce. We have a deal on this. It is true that the bruxit has caused uneasiness to the inhabitants of the European Union, who do not know that it is very different from their state in the United Kingdom, for instance, because it is a system of imperturbation, a system without record, what conditions they will have, what health services they will have, what will become of their papers, their dependence, and other difficulties. But it is true that I would like, taking advantage of the debate, to explain what Brexit is for us and us or can mean Brexit. The first thing we would like to say about Brexit is that it is a sovereign decision of the people as a whole who voted for that decision; that it can be right or wrong, that it can go well or it can go wrong, but that it is a clear reflection of the failure of this model of European construction that is subordinate to the markets, that it also forgets people and that it forgets the integration of peoples. And also here I wanted to try to bring less tremors (and I don't say so for the initiative). The size of the United Kingdom, so large economically and financially, with this situation in the world, is not going to make the break-up traumatic for the big markets, for the macro-economy and for the big companies. It's not gonna be. What we are trying to do with this initiative is also to protect citizens, in this case Basque, but also European in general, from the consequences they may have. But it won't be. And it will not be because the European Union, what a paradox, offered each and every one of the discounts that the United Kingdom was asking to stay in the European Union: rebates on directives, rebates on social policy, rebates on economic contribution... What a paradox! What a paradox if we compare it with Greece, where what the European Union did is to suffocate an entire people, and also threaten them with the fact that, if it did not meet the draconian economic and macroeconomic conditions, they would expel him from the club. What a paradox, with the big ones and the little ones! We are also concerned about the fear that is being infused from the great powers, about the temptation that is being made to put the problem in which it has been through popular consultation, that fear that the great powers have to consult things. It seems to us that those great phrases that we heard after the Brexit (that the masses, that the British popular classes had been manipulated) seem totally dangerous to us. Because what are we playing at? What are we playing at? Why can't we ask ourselves whether or not we are within the European Union? Why can't you ask yourself about economic issues? Why can't one ask about principles of national sovereignty or social issues? Why? It is true that there is no custom here, but it can be done. It is clear that the European people's classes are reacting to a model of the European Union, decisions that within the European Union are degrading their living conditions, leaving them without a future and leaving them without hope. And what we should be concerned about here in Euskadi, even though some may think it catches us too far, is that in most of the countries that are leading that response to these attacks from the European Union it is the far right. And be careful, and here I will be clear: whoever tries to put in the same sack those who reject the European Union from xenophobic and insolidary values with those who reject or reject this model subordinated to the markets only favor, one, confusion; two, the absence of debate, and three, the ultra-right itself. A debate that needs to be done, that needs to be done serenely, and Brexit can be a good opportunity to do so and talk about the model of the European Union. Because for me there are only two alternatives: either the strengthening of this reactionary pole, of that reactionary exit, of that pole which is being born in Central Europe in the face of this escalation of the European Union, or a path of democratic and eminently social popular affirmation with the peoples at the head. Processes such as brexit do not arise from chance. The ghost of the extreme right and of these processes that we are experiencing does not arise from chance. It is fueled by certain policies, by neoliberal policies that make people's lives precarious, by the loss of democratic freedoms that have been experienced in the European Union, by the treatment that has been given to migrant workers within the European Union itself, which have also been used as cannon meat to adopt regressive measures in countries, by the loss of solidarity and territorial cohesion, and also, and most importantly, and most recently, by the shameful action of the whole of the European Union with the wars in the Middle East and also by the shameful attitude towards refugees. Abandoning the duty to point out those responsible for the social and political crisis in Europe means paying even more for the field of ultra-right growth. And that is why we propose that we need a change, putting an end to these policies, and that we start another model of European construction focused on the interests and aspirations of the social majorities and of the European peoples. A cooperative model, horizontal, solidarity and with the voice of the peoples, also of the people of the United Kingdom and also of the Basque people. To build, in short, the Europe of peoples, in the face of the consideration of this Europe of merchants, of this insolidary Europe. And once Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union has been activated, what remains is to respond, for example, to the recommendations of our fellow citizens in these countries, in this case in the United Kingdom. For example, Marea Granate, who is proposing to us things that have also been said, such as maintaining freedom of movement between the countries of the European Union and the United Kingdom, protecting the right of Community citizens and British citizens to work in our countries, ensuring access to health care, services, social benefits, and also – no less important – recognition of the years of return to the countries of origin. Transparency in negotiations is also necessary. We do not want further opaque negotiations in which the Government of the State does not report on their development. And also, and to that we do urge the Government of the State, to strengthen consular systems, as there are more than numerous complaints in the United Kingdom. There are no resources to care for the thousands and thousands of citizens of the State currently living in the United Kingdom who are at risk of their rights being violated, who have not been violated in recent times, and who are also helpless in the face of the new wave of xenophobia that they are living in the United Kingdom. Therefore, as I said at the beginning, we have reached an agreement; we greet it. We would have liked it if it had gone a lot further. We have approved the creation of a forum in Euskadi with the participation of various bodies, a forum that has already been set up, which we proposed that Parliament should also be part of. It has not been accepted, but we will also try and continue to work from the Committee on European Affairs to be informed and to propose topics to that forum. And I think it is very important that we have adopted what we have adopted on the Euskadi delegation in London. On the intention of the Basque Government – that is, if the budget allows it, if the conditions say so – we say it is necessary, and so we will propose. But we find it surprising, or at least conclusive, that yesterday the office of the SPRI, which seems good to us, was opened, we are not criticizing it, but the priorities there are seen: we will study whether we open an office to care for Basque citizens, but the Basque companies, yes, well attended. I insist, we do not think it wrong to open the SPRI office, but if there is a budget for that there would also be for a delegation from Euskadi in London, because that is where the priorities of each group are seen. We think it is important, and we have also proposed it in the Committee on European and Foreign Affairs, that the State's bilateral commission and the Euskadi commission be re-launched for European issues, another claim that needs to be made and that we share. And also the information systems that from Euskadi we can set up both from Irekia and from many other sites. Therefore, from our group we will work from here to fundamentally accompany Basque citizenship that may be affected in this case by the subject of Brexit, but let us not forget the motive, causes and decisions that provoke things like Brexit. And let us not forget that in the face of this wave that Europe is experiencing there are also alternatives, and that we need to talk and work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u98	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u99	Good afternoon and thank you very much, President. Well, I'm going to defend Europe. Because some speeches seem to take advantage of the Brexit to plunge us here into the marasm east of the incapacity, of the sclerosis of the European Union. No, no. I am going to defend Europe. There is no alternative to Europe. Europe is the most important project we have in our hands, and that is where we need to keep moving forward. That's why Brexit has been bad news for everyone. There is nothing more to see than the media, surfing a little over the internet in relation to what there is, with the questions about what Brexit is, where we are going, what is going to happen, what processes, what steps are we going to take, to see a little the concern that exists in the citizenry and in the public opinion in relation to something that has been, I say again, a very bad news for all of us. Very bad news for all of us, for all of the Democrats. Because it has been very good news for the ultras, for the independenceists, for the Eurosceptics, for Donald Trump, etc. I mean, here are the keys: Who has it been good news for? For these. Well, it's been bad news for the others. And it is true, Mr Martínez, that you were right: Europe has been generous, very generous with the United Kingdom in relation to your approach. Europe, the European Union, the European institutions, of course they did not want the United Kingdom to come out of its bosom, out of our bosom! Of course not! And it has been generous and has been able to put on the table issues, negotiations. Why not? It was important! It's not going to be Greece the model, is it? Greece is not going to be the model to follow! It's just been loud. You have put on the table, on the balance of balance, the Greek model and the model of the United Kingdom. Well, no. No, no. He said this because he compared Europe's position with these two political realities. No, it wasn't, actually. And Greece is very important, very important also for Europe, but we are rating Brexit as one of the worst news. We read it recently: one of the most important people of this last walk in Britain with political responsibility has said that it is the worst news after the Second World War. And that's not what we say; that's what we've all seen in the media. Therefore, the most important thing at this time is prudence. I saw yesterday in the Congress of Deputies that the President of the Government responded to some initiatives of some spokespersons (Mr Hernando, Mr Esteban...) on this issue, and of course I keep that. I'll take the prudence right now. What is important is the soundness of the European negotiation at the moment, and of the withdrawal agreement at the moment, this issue must be raised. We must also preserve the rights of the citizens of the Union who are affected by their interests in the United Kingdom, as a fundamental element, and, of course, from there we must understand that there is going to be a post-negotiation, a negotiation after the withdrawal agreement and the agreements that we have to take on this issue, in order to continue to maintain good relations and to continue to make everything work on the major issues that affect us all. And above all to know, to neutralize them, the negative effects of Brexit against our interests, that that is the fundamental element. Well, when I saw the original initiative, well, the truth is, I got a little scared. I got a little scared, because, of the three points I had, the first two were conducting a census on a list, files of people. I mean, when it's not covered by the law, it's a little complicated! That is to say, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to make a list of the United Kingdom's citizens in Arabic, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and the second, the Parliament urges the Government to make a list of citizens... Well, those files are not regulated by law, which means that, in fact, those first two points of the original initiative go a little against certain areas of freedom. And logically, the citizens of the United Kingdom here, or the citizens here in the United Kingdom, have the possibility – and that is what needs to be facilitated, and that is why I believe that progress has been made in negotiating the initiative – of obtaining information and how these rights are preserved and how they are given information, but on those first two issues I believe that, of course, they have gone from being stopped to being stopped. Fortunately, it's changed. And in the third point, there was more talk about the Foreign Action Secretariat. There are better other formulas, there are better other bodies in relation to informing Basque people in the UK or UK citizens in Spain, or in the Basque Country in this case, about their interests and their situation, and of course that is so. We were making an amendment approach to the whole, which I believe were the two fundamental elements. The first was to urge the Basque Government, from this Parliament, to formalise and develop information and advice tools for these two groups, for the Basques and Basques who are in the United Kingdom, who have interests in the United Kingdom, and for the citizens of the United Kingdom who are here and who have their interests here and who have their lives organised here. Well, then establish those tools, those elements of information, of advice, and effectively do so through those channels that the Government can articulate. And in the second, that the truth is that it has been confirmed these days, in the second that we presented in this amendment of all of 21 March, we also urged the Basque Government to have the specialized consultancy (that is what came out on the website of the SPRI, "specialized consultancy") with which SPRI operates in the United Kingdom have the necessary means for the said advisory and information work, in order to be able to protect the Basque interests that may be affected by the Brexit. Well, what we were asking for I think is a fundamental element, a reflection that the Basque Government has also supported, because indeed yesterday (they were also quick), yesterday, April 5, a few days later, the SPRI has opened an office, and indeed that channel of communication is there enlarged and materialized. That is why, when it comes to assessing the compromise amendment, there we are. We, if your ladies and gentlemen are so kind, will ask for a separate vote, because we have a small reservation on one of the points. The first point in the compromise amendment is that a forum with a participatory nature that contains as an end the study of the new scenario emerged... Well, in fact, I understand that this new forum, which includes universities, chambers of commerce, clusters... is a bit of a stuffy machine, but the point is to understand what happens and give information to citizens. Let us hope that it is agile, although it seems a little complicated when it comes to being an agile element, but we would agree with the first point. And we would agree with the third point, because the Basque Parliament urges the central government to dialogue, to talk in the bilateral cooperation committee about issues that may affect the imminent departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Well, that's fine. We feel that the Basque Government should speak with the Government of Spain, with the central Government, with the ministry, to see how they deal with these issues. I believe that it is also the good thing, and I believe that, after the President of the Government appeared yesterday, it is what we see, that we want to coordinate efforts. And the third and fourth positions are that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to transfer relevant or relevant information to the citizenry, through Irekia or similar mechanism. Well, it was logically part of our approach. With what we do not agree so much, and that is why we are going to abstain, it is with the second question, with the second point of the compromise amendment. The second point of the compromise amendment reads: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in the light of the developments in the negotiations concerning the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union and its affection for the Basque Country, and provided that the budgetary availability of the moment so permits, promotes the opening of a delegation of the Basque Republic to the United Kingdom". Let's see. Yesterday we opened and expanded our efforts in the SPRI office. A new delegation from Euskadi in the United Kingdom... That is to say, the United Kingdom is leaving Europe, and we want to benefit the United Kingdom with an institutional effort, opening a delegation! It is a bit contradictory, to benefit the United Kingdom from Euskadi by opening a delegation. A delegation is an institutional framework for collaboration and cooperation. That is to say, at this moment when the United Kingdom gives us an order and wants the breakup, we go and open a delegation. Well, it's a mistake. It's a mistake! I will not vote against, because I want to maintain (what is your name?, what do you say, Mr Prieto?)... good roll on this subject of brexit, but I think it's a mistake. All right, technical; all right, Mr. Arriola, let the SPRI do (we know, there are entrepreneurs)... But a delegation? One delegation is too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u101	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barrio said when he started the speech that this had to be treated with caution, and reminded me of Cervantes, who also said that prudence is never fear. And so, as I believe that the most important thing today is already well-founded and is already resolved, and it will even have more support from the signatories which means helping and treating the interests of the Basques in the UK, I did want to take a critical look at how we are right now in the European Union, at this problem of Brexit, and how this has come to this point. Because I believe that there are political behaviors and behaviours throughout this event that should be reviewed, and I at least do not resist doing so. That's why I want to make a first statement, and it's that Brexit is the result of a poorly used, poorly focused consultation act, and, as it couldn't be otherwise, with very bad results. Playing irresponsiblely with sovereignty and consultations to solve partisan problems is highly dangerous, and Brexit is the result of an irresponsible political game, carried out by those who give lessons of seriousness and rigour, in this case by the British Conservatives, who used the country to resolve a partisan leadership dispute. Brexit is also, even in a smaller part, to some extent the responsibility of the European Union itself, because it left it up to it, it was not important to what was happening in the United Kingdom. It has been less important to many episodes, to which the European Union has been undermining in the whole of Europe, and therefore when it wanted to react it was late. Although, in fact, he put a lot on the table to try to fix it, but I think that when there was already a wave that was too contrary to the UK's stay in the European Union. Brexit is also a picture of the social dissatisfaction that the current European Union is generating. It is also the result of the inability to provide well-being, security of rights, and also a future for citizens. Brexit is a very dangerous precedent, which has done nothing more than start, which no one knows how it will end, and which already has allies in other countries to follow its path, although it is done from different ideological positions. A European Union that does not provide enough employment for its inhabitants, that cuts public investment, that reduces the welfare of citizens, that does not practice solidarity enough, that allows tax havens, that does not reduce the great power to unbalance the social economy and the productive economy that practice a few financial groups but that have a lot of power, far from generating accessions, produces easily manipulated rejections, as we have seen. Policies that do not move towards scenarios of equality between people are policies that feed tears and ruptures. The last years of the European Union have been bad for politics: there was no capacity to approve the European constitution, there was no capacity to deal with financial speculation, there was no capacity to reduce the anti-social effects of such speculation, there was no capacity (yet there is not) to pursue a humanitarian policy with refugees. Nor do continuing attempts to divide the north with the south, the east with the west, help the collective interests of the European Union. Nor do the theories of the different speeds, which form within their groups and subgroups, help anything, because they create a lot of uncertainty, a lot of distrust and a lot of rivalry between countries, and are closer to the "save who can" than to more social cohesion, which is what their now 450 million inhabitants and also their twenty-seven countries need. Europe has to be more citizen union and less country coordinator. Europe does not have an arrangement by going only to the rhetorical debate on the dangers of populism; nor by taking the British to the cry of "You will find out!". We have a problem, and we all have it. We have the twenty-eight, even if it affects us unequally or even if we have different responsibilities. The United Kingdom faces a huge legal vacuum and the loss of British rights outside its borders. Europe also has it complicated, and it also calls on the United Kingdom for EUR 60 billion in compensation for disconnection. The British have to do many things, among other things the laws that were collected in the European Union. This is already causing them internal tensions between the Government, which wants rapid avenues of settlement without Parliament's participation, and the opposition, which raises the opposite and which has already revoked some decision through the courts. The European Union has to regulate the disconnection for which it only has an article that regulates it, which is Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which was then taken to the 2009 Treaty of Lisbon. Article that is obviously not prepared to deal with this problem, the magnitude, the extent of this problem, because in the spirit of its approval it occurred to no one to think that there could be a disconnect like the one we are experiencing at this time. Brexit, as has already been mentioned, affects the free movement of persons, affects workers who are there, affects university students, affects the rights of pensioners, trade, entrepreneurship, tourism, also the financial sector, agriculture, fisheries, investment and security. And also, even if it affects fewer people, so we are seeing lately, it also affects mental health. It follows from the semi-war or blackmailist language of some when they call on the Malvinas or Europol to make their theories. Brexit is clear that it has upset them severely. The European Union needs citizens to deal with this situation well, and for this it also needs to improve and have more social cohesion objectives. And that is the only way to curb an anti-European feeling that we must recognise today that it is growing. The European Union, which is going to cost us more from now on, which is going to cost us more, because we are going to have to pay it least, must rethink what it can offer citizens to improve their appreciation for it. Inequality stimulates border closure, barricade placement and exaltation to decide passionately and hastily. Equality opens borders, knocks down barricades and stimulates infinitely more reflective forms of participation and decision-making. Equality should be the only flag of the European Union. It is clear that the United Kingdom must not benefit from this portal which it has given to the European Union, but neither does it agree with the European Union that the British anti-Europeans should be strengthened to the detriment of the British in favour of the European Union. Secessionist fragmentation policies are a major threat to coexistence, because they only involve ruptures and confusions. Calls to the manoeuvrable right to decide and to consultation by consultation, without knowing the scope of the consultation or the scope of what is decided, only lead to chaos. The participation of citizens in politics when it is improvised, when the concrete elements of the decision to be taken are not known, when the consequences are not explained, nor do they bring more democracy and social benefits. Now we are going to start negotiating the disconnection, and then we are going to deal with the new relationship between the United Kingdom and the Union, and this is going to take a long time. There are two years of disconnection, but it is not known how long it will last, nor how long the negotiation will last to know the new status of each other. In Spain there are 309,000 British residing; in the United Kingdom there are 200,000 Spaniards, a part of them Basque. Euskadi has a significant trade relationship with the United Kingdom (we export 60% more than we import from the United Kingdom). We have interests, therefore, more than enough to take letters on this matter. Hence our position in favour of offering attention to all people in the Basque Country who by residence, studies, work or economic activity need help to have information and advice in this complex situation, which can prolong their indefiniteity for many years. A focus that seeks coordination between governments, between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain; a focus that seeks – so that Mr Barrio has no perplexity or prevention – to add efforts, seeks to help and support, seeks such collaboration and coordination, and, above all, seeks that European citizens belonging to the Basque community can see their rights protected and defended, also by this Parliament and by this Basque Government. And I believe that this is an absolutely upbuilding attitude and decision for this problem that we are experiencing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u102	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. Chief, good evening. For the first time, I've had a little anxiety about a subject that would have made me strange for the first time. Fortunately, last week this anxiety vanished when the order of affairs was established for this whole meeting. In fact, and as many of my colleagues know, I am as much of an European interest as our party (Aubertarians). I don't know whether this passion is connected with patriotism or not, but if, for example, I consider it a home. It would be just to express that Europe is also regarded as its own country, because I have a feeling of being a member of it, because a part of my personality has always been part of it, for the Spanish State came into Europe in the year I was born in 1986. This hobby, but it's not critical. The connection with the European project does not blind us, for we find that the immense challenge of the structure of the European Union had been made in a bad way since the first moment. The six States which undertook the preponderating principles of European construction began the formation of the project from the structures of state, and the model of organisation which we now have is nothing but the direct result of what we have stated at the present time. It is a sign of this that the nations, or those who are called suffrages in Europe, and that the Asanblads, which ought to be represented by them, as the Asanbadas of the Shires, or the Trait de las Frances, have but little weight in the structure of the European Union. For some States are conscious that the sovereignty is shared in the system of a shared government, and that the model of organisation, which is most natural to the inhabitants, may prevail in a future, in order to remove the structures of the State which remain in the midst of it. Xabier of Landaburuk, Azandako Azerrian EAJko burukideak, aurreikusten zuen 1956. Urtean plazaratutako "The Cause of the Basque People" Azterlanean. Paragraph labur bat yes, dago idatzita herdaraz. Astiro irakuriko dut: "In the hierarchy of collective entities, what tends to disappear is the intermediate body, the present state, which will one day be useless, and the national feeling of the native nation, founded in natural circumstances, will come into force, conciliable with that generalized state that needs it, Europe". Hau 1956an, horren aurretik idatzi zen. Europar Batasunaren was ez dugu ez dugu dena ilun irudikatuko, baina... We have recently celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, a treaty that gave rise to a European Union that looked forward to leaving behind a convulsive era of wars between Europeans that claimed more than 100 million deaths. Sixty years of peace that overwhelmingly justify the Nobel Peace Prize given to the project in 2012 and that could justify for themselves the whole project. But union doesn't just mean no wars. The European Union also means the acquisition of rights that we consider essential today and a clear improvement in the living conditions of many people. For this reason, it is traumatic now that a partner as important as the United Kingdom has left the ship, has left the ship. The process with which it has been carried out has been exquisitely democratic and exemplary for the other countries of the world, but the citizens' vote has been conditioned by a campaign favourable to the Brexit plagued by half truths, inaccuracies and lies. And projecting lies about people's real concerns is dishonest. At this difficult time, I would like first of all to appreciate the anticipation shown by the Department of Economic Development: Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia, I understand that today she is back to inaugurate yesterday the commercial delegation of SPRI in London, an important milestone in the positioning of Euskadi in the new framework of relations that will serve – as the Councilwoman explained yesterday – as an instrument of advice to Basque SMEs or any other larger company that wants to internationalize themselves by entering the British market. This SPRI office will also be able to bring our companies closer to doing from areas where the UK is leading, such as fintech or industry 4.0, by putting only two examples. A milestone that is accompanied by the announcement we proposed in the first point, which is to articulate a forum that will allow to study the conditions of individuals and business groups and that will serve as a channel of communication between them and the Government. Following the path that marks the compromise that we have agreed between four parties (all except the People's Party), we ask the central government to reactivate urgently the Euskadi-Spain Bilateral Commission for matters related to Europe, which is essential for our institutions to obtain first-hand information on the progress of the UK-EU negotiations. Finally, we urge in the compromise they have in their hands that the Government should transfer, to the citizens who intend to move in the future to the United Kingdom, all practical information that might be of interest to them through Irekia. As regards the measures that we can take from our area of competence, and beyond the nuances or varnishes that each group has wanted to provide, the solutions we propose are similar, since we have been able to pick them up in a compromise of broad consensus, I believe that without excessive effort. I believe, in short, that thanks to the contributions of the four parliamentary groups (Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu, Socialist Party and ourselves) we have been able to reach a good compromise. And I would like to thank these groups for the good work they have done in the negotiations, and to congratulate us on the agreement reached. And to agree also with them that there are still many unknowns that must be cleared up in the negotiations, with as little affection as possible – this is what we must try to do – to the citizens here and there. I just want to respond now to the points that have emerged in the debate. First of all, Mr Martínez, about the presence of Parliament in the forum that we are calling for to be formed. As a matter of fact, it is common for Parliament to be part of the councils, but it is practically not part of any of the forums, and if we had to constantly attend fora, then we would almost devote ourselves entirely to that. You in this House have the opportunity to take control and to ask what the conclusions of that forum have been. And Mr. Barrio, the truth is, I didn't understand him. I would like you to explain to me in the second round a little bit better what it is to pay a counterpart, or I don't know how you explained it, to the United Kingdom on the subject of the delegation. The future delegation, always dependent and conditioned on the UK's negotiation with the European Union, would be clearly focused on serving the Basque citizens, not the British, and their interests in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing to the turn of the answers, Mrs. problemon, representative of EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u105	Yes, thank you. Yes, first of all I think it is worth thanking that we have found that minimum common denominator between the four parties, which has allowed us to achieve this compromise amendment, which I believe is at least in line with the minimum requirement and, of course, to give relevance to the subject of Brexit, which I believe it was. From here we also have obvious differences, because from the point of view that was made, that at a given moment the European Union should suppose the disappearance of the states, therefore, it is an issue that we do not only share, but quite the opposite, since Euskal Herria Bildu. What we want is for Euskal Herria to be a state, and as a state it belongs precisely to the European Union, because we understand that it has to be that union of states. Well, that was not the subject of the motion either, but to be clear, because I believe that the one who understood it perfectly is Mr Carmelo Barrio. Because, indeed, the way Euskal Herria has to pose politics is because we understand that Euskal Herria is a people, has aspirations as a people, and we treat it as such. That is why we were talking about listing in census form, because we understand that the citizens who belong to this community and who are outside are our citizens. And it is indeed our duty and our responsibility to do so. Indeed. And besides, we not only understand this, and I think you understand it perfectly, but throughout your speech you have absolutely ignored talking about citizens, because you have of course started talking absolutely everything from a distance: we want everything to work on the big issues, I find it very interesting to open up the SPRI... But I don't see the citizens. That's what he came to tell us. And neoliberals never let us down. The truth is that there you have to thank them for that coherence, which is "for the companies yes...". Well, although part of your theory is that with companies you don't have to intervene, as long as you understand to intervene by asking them for something. To give you yes you can intervene. And so you think the SPRI delegation is great for businesses, but you don't understand it for citizens: we have to help businesses, but why are we going to help citizens? Don't disappoint, the truth is that's to thank. And when I was talking about the prudence Rajoy showed, well, we understood it as synonymous with inactivity, which is what it comes to be. And of course we're not going to find a point of agreement with you. There it is impossible to find that minimum common denominator at this point. That is why we also understand not only that this is a necessary action. We believe that in the same way, and we have welcomed it, the delegation that opened the SPRI... Indeed, action is needed. Why not give that advice to SMEs, or any other company, as you have said? But why don't we give it to the citizens? That's what's behind it, and most of all... If it were redundant, indeed, it would not be necessary, but we see that it is a time when it is not redundant, but precisely what we are considering... I think we all know people who live there; we know, if not close people, our citizens who live there, and the question is real. Another thing is that we do not yet have the keys to provide them, but I believe that on the need and the relevance of this issue we all agree. We will see how the circumstances are progressing, but I think it is an absolute question of accompanying the citizens in this situation. Moreover, as it was pointed out, it will not be just questions of rights that they have acquired there, but questions of whether laps arise; moreover, acquired rights that can be maintained here, and how to collaborate so that our citizens have and are guaranteed rights, but above all also have our accompaniment. And to say this, I think that when we speak of him, we are leaving out one thing, very important, and it is not to be understood who gave the negative, which just made the brexit appear. If we don't understand that the workingman is angry at the present situation, if we don't hear that voice, if we don't do anything with that vote, if we don't mind what's going on, we'll be doomed to repeat things. I believe there is time, even, not to think that the result of such speeches expresses levity. What lies behind is deep, what lies behind us is unrest in so many ways. I believe, too, that in comparing the United Kingdom and Greece when it is made here, it is the hard situation in Greece, the serious crisis, and what it is doing there. I don't think we have to work on this levity, and I think it's essential to consider that even the national phenomenon has affected brexit. And there has been a very different vote in Scotland or Northern Ireland. They've decided to stop there, and they've decided to leave in other areas. There are a lot of messages behind the brexit, I say, around the vote. It is time also to listen to the people in a low tone, and in this case I believe that they will respond to the assistance which our fellow-citizens ask of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u106	Thank you, ma'am. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u107	Mr. Barrio, I think today's a model thing. And we have a model of our own for Euskadi and for the whole state, and also a model of our own project for the European Union. But here there are two models of crisis management in the European Union. One is red carpet for the powers, red carpet for countries with resources like the United Kingdom; and drown, squeeze to exhaustion, squeeze an entire people as is the people of Greece. And it has been done by a government of the European Union where they are conservative, social democrat and liberal. That is the Government that has been expressing Greece, not another. And that's not our model. That model of expressing states and expressing peoples is not our model. That model of blackmailing countries is not our model. Because I agree with the words that Mr Prieto has commented on today here. I would like them to be the same words as the leaders of the European Socialist Party, and to take those decisions accordingly with them in the European Union, in the European Commission, where they govern together with the People's Party and the liberals. Because in addition, some of the anti-European feelings of people we have been able to talk about here have slipped in. Nothing further from reality. We can be critical until exhaustion with this model of the European Union, but we are deeply European. We have another completely different model. You should even pick up some of the things and the positive elements that you have – why not – but you should also remove others that you don't. We were talking about the need to also assist the Basque citizens who are there and the British citizens who live here with us, because it is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is leaving office, and that the consulate in London is not doing the work that it would have to do, and those are complaints, thousands of complaints that are collected by associations such as the one I have mentioned from Marea Granate. And this proposal that we make in this proposal, in this agreement that we have reached, for Euskadi to provide an extra – and we will demand it from the government, to get it started and to help – can help thousands of people there in the UK, thousands of Basques and Basques who may have, as Mrs Larrion said, violated the rights acquired here and also many of those acquired there. And we said that we are also critical of the European Union, because honestly it has long since ceased to sound the Anthem of Joy, and to mean the same thing that it could have meant at some point. Many years ago, with the "no to the European Constitution" in various countries, which was not united by the European powers and by the European Union (because it then moved to the Treaty of the European Union exactly the same, violating the decision of many peoples), many years ago those melodies of harmony and happiness ceased to be heard, because they were transformed into melodies of policies of cuts, melodies of policies of austerity, and melodies of oppression and oppression of peoples such as in this case the people of Greece, and other peoples as well as the Spanish State, to which they also imposed draconian conditions in order to be able to make economic policy, the result of decisions taken in Madrid by the People's Party, or by the Socialist Party at the beginning, and also the result of policies taken in Brussels by the same parties I mentioned. Because we have another model for the European Union, he said: a cooperative model, a solidarity model, a model of peoples and a model of the popular classes. Because we think that with this European Union what has happened with Brexit – I think it has been mentioned now – can be repeated again. There were signals in Ireland, there were signals in France, there were signals in Holland, there was the Brexit, we have an extreme right wave that is going through the European Union. If we pay and use the same recipes, I think the answers of the popular classes, unfortunately, will be the same. And also, as a leftist and internationalist person, I'm also worried. And I am concerned that from the left, too, we need to build an alternative, but also from the democratic forces, we need to make an alternative, from the far right Europe to the anti-social Europe. Because that is why we are concerned, and if we continue with this model of the European Union the solutions, the answers, the solutions that people are going to adopt, are exactly the same. And it's everyone's responsibility here, even if it catches us... Although it seems to catch us far, we have the National Front in our own home, here, just a few miles from Gasteiz. Therefore, we are concerned, and we are going to build among all the alternative and we are going to put our grain of sand also according to the Basque citizenship and the British citizenship that lives with us, through this non-law proposal, which will probably give rise to many more and more work in the committee and in this very plenary in order to be able to continue working in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u108	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscala Popular's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u109	Thank you, President. Soon. Mr. Martinez, with a very good tone and with that smile that you have, but your speech is apocalyptic permanently. It is apocalyptic: the European Union blackmails, oppresses, absorbs, sucks the effort of the... It's amazing! The European Union blackmails countries! But do you not see what the European Union's agreements are like? If the councils generally take their agreements by unanimity of the states! It is that, let's see, first we have to see a little and we have to look at how the European architecture is, how the agreements are made, how it works, how the Commission is composed, how the decision-making process is composed. I mean, you can't say that so cheerfully! It is an easy speech, it is such a demagogic speech, a disqualifier of the European Union. You say you're a Europeanist... Well, you'll have to say it, but your speech is not European. His speech is apocalyptic. The oppression...! Well, that's not true. Indeed, like everything else, and we have recognized it here, as the specific crises or important issues and crises that we have had can be improved, and we need to fine-tune and we need to do much more, and we really need to respond to what is intended of the European Union and to our integration process. We must improve it, but, of course, we are not in the discourse of the apocalypse. It's just as comfortable for you to do it, but no, I don't think that's the right thing to do. And, of course, when it comes to dealing with Brexit less. Because when it comes to dealing with Brexit, if we do the brexit speech above, it is that we benefit those I said before, the Eurosceptics, the ultras, Trump, the radical independenceists... That's how we benefit those people. So no, that's where I don't think it's going. I agree with the speech basically by Mr Arruabarrena, the Europeanist speech. I share it. I too say that I am a supporter of the United States of Europe. It may be called otherwise, but I want to say that it is the inclusive process, the process of the consolidated European Union, of political union... I'm there too. And why...? He did not understand me about the delegation, that I do not agree with a delegation. I agree with the information (and I have talked about the citizens, Mrs Larrion, I have talked about the citizens), I agree with the information, I agree that channels should be established. And, I say again, in our entire amendment we were talking about strengthening the role of the SPRI offices, and also about doing so in the performance of the Basque Government. We are interconnected, the Internet works, information is given, it interacts with our citizens who are in the European Union at any time, the government can do it... Well, those are the channels that need to be strengthened. But the delegation is a different institutional area. I mean, you get kicked and usually doesn't respond with a hug. The protest, the denunciation, or... And that would be! I mean, they don't want to have relationships with you, in short, and you're trying to... I think it's a little contradictory, it's a little disproportionate. That has nothing to do with giving information to citizens, and the services to Basque citizens will be there. They will be there by our commercial offices, they will be there by our governments, by the Basque Government in relation to the information that can be obtained and the channels, they will be with the instruments that are already on the table (our embassy, our consulates..., another of Mr Martínez's apocalypses, that nothing works)... Well, that's not true, that's not true, but, well, you liked that canteen I don't know... what did you say about a grenade organization? What? Oh, that, yeah. I do not know her, but she will surely be a specialist in disqualifying the actions of the Spanish Government, like so many others. But anyway, there they are, the mechanisms are. But the delegation strictly at this time I believe it loses a role as fundamental, at a time when someone doesn't want us or someone wants to get rid of us. And Mrs. Larion has re-claimed the listings. I don't know, he didn't do it very forcefully, because then, when looking for the transaction, he saw that there was no possibility. In other words, listed as a census of citizens who are not regulated by a law or by a rule are not legal. It's not legal. It's not legal. I mean, I don't know who tipped you off, but that's what you have to check. Indeed, the legality of listings as a census of citizens who come to you, that has to be reviewed. I have spoken... He said I didn't talk about citizens. I, when I spoke of prudence, because in my first intervention I said, "The important thing at the moment is to be prudent." Apart from the soundness of the negotiation and the withdrawal agreement, I have talked about the priority, which is to preserve the rights of the citizens of the European Union with their interests in the United Kingdom. That's what I said. I mean, you didn't hear me there or you didn't want to hear me. And I don't know if I'm an ultra-liberal. No, I'm not ultra-liberal, Mrs. Larrion. I am a Christian Europeanist outlaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u111	Bai. I'm not going to consume more than a minute of the replica shift. Mr Barrio, I am sorry to say this, but your argument against the future and conditional opening of a delegation that would serve Basque citizens residing in the United Kingdom seems inconsistent and I still do not understand it. Then, if you want, we'll talk about it, but I still don't understand it. I think it hides a different ideological position that has not been revealed at all, and I say again that the opening of a delegation in London does not imply any backlash to any attitude or strategy maintained by the United Kingdom. Since, in short, we have arrived once upon a broad consent, I shall not point out every slight point. I value the medium we have obtained once more, and I congratulate myself that the fruits of this legislature are favorable to the citizens this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. [[Berber]] Yeah, it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u113	Yes, the second point on the sidelines. The others can all go together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u114	One, three, four, two out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u115	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u116	Is there a problem voting? No, right? Well, then, we vote on points. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote EH, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos and Eubertians, the first and fourth point of the semi-correction which the party has signed, the third and fourth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u117	So the first, the third and the fourth points have been unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u118	So the second point is also accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "To finance and complete the co-worker's projects with the euccanic divisional (Basque Consortium). Together, the parlamental group Podemos, the controversy and final solution of the proposition which has been proposed against this treaty." There's a side shift and a two-way shift. The opposite proposition. Who participates in the next round, apart from Podemos? Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u119	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Jaun-Andreok. I come again this afternoon to the plenary to defend the opposition of my group Elkarrekin We can to the framework agreement of collaboration for the implementation of joint projects with shared funding of the Basque Internationalization Consortium, Basque Consortium, which intends to sign our Government with the three outlaws. The purpose of the agreement is to finance the consortium's activities under a cost-sharing framework between all the institutions involved, as well as to establish a procurement procedure in accordance with the Public Sector Contracts Act. So far, of course, nothing to object to. However, when we come to clause 8 of the said Convention we find that all information relating to the implementation of this Convention to which the parties have access will be confidential, and that the parties are also obliged to keep such information secret and not to transmit it to third parties, except with the prior written consent of the other parties. A clause which, I repeat, is enshrined in a simple agreement for the co-financing of contracts between public administrations and which refers only to public funds to be allocated to a public aid programme. Of course, this excess of zeal and prevention, in our view, does not seem to fit with the good intentions of being a transparent administration that shows our Government at the slightest opportunity. I have printed here a copy of what appears on the Government's page on transparency, and it is very illustrative, because it says: "Transparency means guaranteeing free access to information generated by the Public Administration, in order to create an environment of trust between the Government and society and, in this way, to form a responsible and participatory citizenship." And when he explains what transparency is, he says: "Transparency in the field of public administration involves opening up all government affairs so that citizens, information in hand, are able to take part with solvency in the decisions that concern them. Transparency is, therefore, to return to the citizenry part of the power it deposits in the Administration, so that it participates and collaborates in the construction of the public, that of all" (and all, I imagine). "Transparency," he says, "is a social requirement that the public administration must address and meet. It is not a passive task to let people see, but rather requires policies to keep citizens well informed." This is what the Government says in its transparency portal. There will be those who say that internationalization is such an important issue for the development of this country as to justify the existence of such clauses, and will use for their argumentation terms such as "strategic decision", "improvement of competitiveness in the external markets"... However, we believe that it would be fallacious to use that argument on this issue. In this convention we are not talking about how to guide the government's economic policy, but only about how public money is managed. In this area, citizens have the right to know how, where and what their taxes are invested. If a business needs help to move abroad, then it will have to be supported, and then it will be necessary to explain how and how much it has been supported. And if you can't explain it with understandable arguments, then maybe you didn't deserve that help, because strategic decisions are only valid if they have been known and understood by the citizenry. And because, while we understand that the Government uses such legal figures to facilitate collaboration between institutions, its way of acting cannot be taken away from the guarantees that the laws require of the administrations themselves. A government in promoting business and supporting investment has duties and obligations that go far beyond maximizing the usefulness of funds. Consequently, the right to confidentiality enjoyed by contracting parties in commercial legislation is out of place in these public contracts. Therefore, in our opposition paper we make it clear that a democratic society must include the ability of the governed to control its rulers, and that above contractual clauses the law must prevail. Therefore, in Elkarrekin We cannot accept a confidentiality clause as set out in the above-mentioned framework agreement. The principle of transparency is only a guarantee that legality has been fulfilled, and that the actions of the persons or institutions involved are in accordance with the law. Therefore, a framework agreement without this confidentiality clause should not prejudice the interests of the Government, the members of parliament or the companies that are committed to their plans for internationalization. However, the opposite, that is to say, giving up transparency, does have its risks. In my first speech in this House I made it clear that in the area of transparency credibility is everything. Therefore, I finish my speech by reading one of the paragraphs on the Government's website, entitled "Why transparency": "Transparency, as one of the pillars of open government," he says, "is about opening the doors and windows of the Administration so that citizens can recover the information that is theirs and according to a responsible society." Apply the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u120	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Because it doesn't have to be on the counter shift, we'll vote. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for it. The opposite proposition. Do we understand what we vote for? Propuesta de oposiciyón, the contrary proposition. [[Berber]] Yours, we'll vote for that. It's understood what we vote for, right? All clear what we vote? It's the first time we've done it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 71, 11; the contrary, 42; white, 0; abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u121	So we don't accept the contrary proposal. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly to explain that Podemos opposes the collaboration framework agreement to implement joint projects with shared funding from the Basque Internationalization Consortium between Basque Government and outlaws. This agreement complements that of 2014, signed by Bildu's deputy at the time – and I don't know why Bildu is abstaining today, but well, Bildu signed it at the time –, complements that of 2014, in which it was expected that each administration would spend its money and not pool the money or collaborate with any administration. There was a coordination. This new one that brings us..., the only difference that this agreement has, with which it came then, is that there can now be joint projects financed by several administrations, and what is established is what percentage each administration pays. And in this case the Chambers of Commerce are left out of the initial agreement, because, as you all know, they do not have a euro. And you tell us you're worried about the confidentiality clause. There was the same in the 2014 convention. Moreover, the 2014, which remains in force, also has another clause on data protection. And you tell us that you want to know how and where the money of all Basques is invested in this matter, and I will remind you that We can, at least in Bizkaia, in mid-2016 asked, since 2013, all the aid of the Bizkaia Diputation in this matter to all the companies, and you had fulfilled the answer, one by one, of all the companies, the project and the amount received from 2013 to 2015, which was the data I had. What you want to know already knows. And all I recommend is that you talk to your junta groups and learn what they're up to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u123	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u124	Yes, thank you, President. To explain the vote against the initiative by the Basque Socialists. And it is that the Basque Government approved on 21 March the signing of a partnership agreement with the outlaws to establish this co-financing of joint projects in the Basque Internationalization Consortium, which has been explained earlier by the spokesman of the People's Party. And the agreement, which was signed on 3 December 2014, created that Basque Internationalization Council for a very precise purpose, and was to have an integrated structure that would deal with the coordination of public policy of the various initiatives to promote the internationalization of Euskadi. And the ultimate objective was to increase the positive impact that the interrelationship with the external markets has on the competitiveness of the companies of Euskadi. However, that consortium does not have its own or specific budget, and each of the parts of that consortium will continue to finance and cover the activities it carries out in the field of internationalization with its respective budgets, and that is so established when signing that convention. The Governing Council of 21 March authorized the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure to sign an agreement to that effect, and the agreement defined aspects such as the arrangements for the financial participation of the parties in joint projects, the sharing of additional costs, or the monitoring, monitoring and monitoring of the correct implementation of the commitments entered into. The initiative that Elkarrekin Podemos brought to us this afternoon is opposed to the eighth clause of that convention, and the Socialists have voted against it because we considered that the proposaler's approach was not the correct one, because it was based only partially on a part of that eighth clause on confidentiality, and not in its entirety. Because the agreement in its eighth clause has a second subparagraph which the proposer has omitted and which reads as follows: "However, the confidentiality obligations shall give way to any administrative or judicial requirement or other legal imperative to the contrary, in the event that the confidential information is in the public domain, in the case that it is known prior to this agreement, in the case that it has been received from third parties without a duty of confidentiality, or in the case that its transmission has been consented to in advance and in writing by the party from which the information originates. The obligations laid down in this clause shall remain in force even after the resolution of this Convention whatever its cause." The Socialists therefore believe that the use of confidentiality, as set out in this framework agreement, does not give rise to any doubt as to its coordination or to the general principle of transparency in public procurement; that the consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act in its article 140.1 prevents contracting authorities from disclosing the information provided by entrepreneurs whom they have designated as confidential, especially in the case of technical, commercial or other confidential aspects of tenders. There is also a doctrine established by various decisions of the Central Administrative Court of Appeal, and also of Community origin, on confidentiality in public procurement, establishing the limits of public procurement, but also establishing its possibility of subsistence. This framework agreement has also been passed, before its parliamentary procedure, by the contracting authority of Euskadi, which has raised no objection to clause 8 of confidentiality, in none of its subparagraphs, so we believe that all contractual guarantees are given to the administration that the legislation establishes, and because we understood that it was not acceptable that suspicion should be placed on the grounds of dealing with a clause setting out confidentiality. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u126	Good afternoon, everyone. We doubted what we had to vote for, in fact, because it was ugly to vote against your proposal, because it's ugly now that it's against the transparency and that it's ugly, if it's not to guarantee its transparency, and if there's some kind of corruption or not to admit the measures against it. However, we have found it necessary to beat ourselves, because it seems to us, to begin with, to kill an elephant with a needle, that is to say, to have the agreements of this kind in this contest for corruption or for transparency, that it is not lawful for us to have the clauses of confidentiality. In this particular case, it is also shown that it is a contract between three aldudias and the Eucomune which has been established since 2014 and has, in some measure, been established as a financial clause. What's this supposed to mean? Now, those international works which have hitherto been made, and which have been made without economic content, or which every man has made on his own account by means of his budget, are somehow united, and it is decided that a financial system which has a great connection with the concert. What's going on? By putting a simple example, say you're a Biscay company or you're a Gipuian company and you've got a direct letter with that institution in your country or with fun. What's logical is that there's a confidentiality clause, because I don't want the third people to use my information. And we know that corporations have a public information, that is to say, in Mercantil records and yearly accounts, there are a number of anecdotes that are public, but there are so many things that are more instinctive, and the corporations are in some sort bound to maintain this secret in this kind of competition world. So, if I were a businesswoman, what I don't want is to have an international strategy, to share it with my pillows or with the Basques, the information that's important to the company, in a way, to be used by other institutions. And that is precisely what puts it in the eighth clause. The other side, i.e. binds or binds the sides of the contract, so as not to be able to do so. That is to say, it can't be used without the license of the Gipuzian malingererer, the documentation given around the international strategy of a Gipuzian company. And I think that guarantee is important for the enpres and that these international strategys are suitable for the unions, I think it's appropriate. That's one of them. And then, secondly, I think that this argument is also very important, is a cynician frame, which is a frame of agreement. And the frame of Covenant is not equal to the Laws. In the Julian hierarchy they are subject to it. So if this convent frame has a clause of confidentiality, and if it were to tear it, it would, in some measure, be opposed to a law about transparency, or Ley de Contractos del Sector Público. And in this hierarchy these laws prevail, and this clause of this conviction would in itself be in vain, or at least in a legal point of view notable. So, I think we sometimes do things by agreement, or by good will, that's where this abstinence comes from, but in the name of efficiency, I think it's necessary to keep this clause, to maintain that confidentiality, in order that these international strategies may be adequate. What a member of the legislature does not place here at all is that if he asks for this information, it is not possible for that member of the legislature to give him that information. I mean, you know, "Munny knows he's in his accounts and obligations, if a member of the legislature asks for information, that he can give them that information." But that information can't go anywhere. And that has nothing to do with corruption or transparence and any subject. Yes, why do you mention them in your text, they are mentioned, and therefore the meaning of our abstinence? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u128	Madame President, President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoons to all of you. We have all voted, and we are about to end the sitting, and I will report that we have voted not because we are in favour of transparency. We don't think anything ugly, nothing itsusia to have voted no. Really, seeing the denunciation of the convention surprised me. It even seemed to me that part of the argument could have some logic, until I made the convention document, to which the documents were also attached with all the parabens of legal, economic and regulatory control of the Basque Government, which, you will not deny me, is already a guarantee in itself. It is a convention, as they have already warned, of the development of the original signed in 2014 between the Basque institutions and chambers of commerce, and that what it seeks is a formula for the joint public procurement of internationalization projects, where the costs are shared out among the four institutions. Once I read the agreement and contrasted with your writing, Mr Becerra, denouncing, I fell into which it was a manipulation. That's where I started to musk. Mr Becerra transcribes the first clause of clause 8 – as Mrs Corcuera has already said – of the said convention, which states that "All information to which the parties have access when implementing such an agreement is confidential...", etc., etc. But the second paragraph is omitted, which says: "However, confidentiality obligations will give way to any administrative or judicial requirement...", etc., etc. It even points to an obviousness so obvious that it says, "It will not be confidential information that is in the public domain." That it could have been denounced, but more than anything else for spending letters where there was no need. And, as Cocteau said, "A half empty glass of wine is also a half full, but a half-truth will never be half-truth." I mean, we're talking about a document that says it's confidential as long as there's circumstances for it to be. We have therefore voted no to this proposal, but above all we have voted yes to the acceptance of the convention in its current format, because clause 8, on confidentiality between the parties, is a legal clause, which does not conflict at all with the transparency due to citizens, at all. We voted yes to the current format of the convention, among other things, because above this convention is the Transparency Act itself, which defines what issues are citizens' right to information. It is not a question of squandering public knowledge of the costs of contracts that may be established in the consortium, to whom it is contracted and what it is contracted. You're gonna know that, you're gonna report it. But, at the same time, it is a question of preserving the confidentiality of data of a different nature which must be preserved, as provided for in the existing data protection legislation and by repeated judgments, of course. We voted yes to the current format of the convention because, moreover, signing the agreement with that clause does not prevent contracts made in its development, which are subject to the Public Administration Contracts Act, from inexcusably complying with the obligations to know how much, in what and how public money is spent; that, in the end, should be what concerns the proponent group of the denunciation of this convention, although throughout the debate I have been confirming my intuition that it is precisely what you intended to extend a halo of suspicion about what should not generate at all. Because, in the end, what is intended to protect is the data of the files that are to be studied in the course of the work of implementing the convention and that in no case could they have public dissemination if by law they are reserved, that they have it. We find ourselves, therefore, in the event that the clause under appeal does not in any way undermine citizens' rights. We find ourselves in the case that what the parliamentary group wants We can – that is, eliminate the clause – also does not grant rights where ordinary legislation does not grant them. It could be denounced, in any case – I give you a hint – the redundant clause could be denounced with the seventh and eighth of the previous convention, and with the existing legislation, but never for limiting rights beyond what the existing legislation does. Allow me to conclude by saying that denouncing this agreement is like denouncing today's letter from this Parliament's restaurant, because it had "secret" in the letter. In short, we have voted for the convention to continue its process because its wording is in conformity with the legislation and its wording does not limit citizens' rights to information. The "secret" here was Iberian, anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-06.u129	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon.
