ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of Eubert of St. Eubert, St. Paul, made to the Governor of the Central and Autobernus, the central axis of the 2020 Public and Public Revolution." Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Erkok, we're asking you today about the works of the Eukong and about the public innovations. At present, the term governance has been constituted as an essential element and mandatory requirement for all public administrations that want to respond to the demands of citizens from efficiency and effectiveness. Principles such as transparency, accessibility, innovation and citizen participation have been introduced in ways of managing the public. We know that the Basque Government is aware of the importance of good governance, which has a firm commitment to it, and hence the design of an entire strategy to consolidate Euskadi as an innovative European region in public governance. We know, as you stated at the public event held last Friday, 27 October, that the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation 2020 is at an advanced stage of elaboration, in contrast to civil society, a stage prior to approval by the Governing Council and subsequent referral to this Parliament. So, if this plan is to be the axis of the three-year-old saucy work, the spine, the Head of Erkokes, we'd like to ask you what the strategic axis of this plan is. And I'm grateful for the answer you're going to give us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the legislature, good day to all of you. We accepted, managed, and evaluated, during the law which has been committed by the late governor and the New World, at the last stage of his abortion trial. He's the lead of the Public Renewing Plan, a direct follower, and he's coming to give three points to the happy show. For these three points: To promote a new administrative culture based on transparency and efficiency, two, planning and evaluation as the axis of the right of government and administration; and to encourage three, to participate in transparency, to examine and share the problems of the popular conversation with the people, and to share the solutions. Our planning has hitherto been in tune with institutions and associations which are precursors in the world, and from now on will have been the case with Open Government Partnersip, OECD and Transp's Internationals. In the absence of the latest cuts, it can already be advanced – very briefly, of course, because there is no time to do so in this format – that the strategic objectives of the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation 2020 are four: One, an open administration, which strengthens institutional integrity policies, promotes transparency and participation, and promotes strategic planning and evaluation. Two, effective administration, which offers quality services and deepens electronic services, ostensibly improving their accessibility and usability. Three, an efficient administration, which progressively replaces the classic bureaucratic model already surpassed by a new model of advanced public management, adapting and adapting its organizational structures and, logically, redefinition of the role of people in the organization according to the new model. And four, an innovative administration, which involves citizens and also management professionals in the design, management and, of course, also in the evaluation of public services. The Administration is not changed by decree, many five-year-olds have already said it, Michel Crozier, but the rules can play a decisive role in driving change, or in ensuring that the defined or projected change takes place effectively. And I am very interested in making this point, because, once the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation has been approved, which we will bring to the House at the beginning of next year, its forecasts will obviously be implemented with much greater ease and determination if the two initiatives that have already been registered in the House by the Basque Nationalist and Socialist parliamentary groups, on the public sector and transparency and participation, are approved. Its rapid processing, which I ask of all the groups in the House, will undoubtedly give a definitive backing so that they can become a reality the objectives of this new model of public administration for which the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation for 2020 is committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the House of Environments, Land Planets, and Houses, made by Unai Uruzuno Goldens, 155 of the Spanish Constitution. about the article setting." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Arriola, the President Urkullu, this week, has been speaking of the national reality of this country from Quebec. As you are a member of his government, but at the same time as those of the principal pushers of 155, responsible for the overthrow of the autonomy of Catalonia, which is responsible for the imprisonment of a whole government, what a democratic contribution can PSE at this time, when an Autogobernu Poncia is involved, and at the moment when we are to discuss political states? We believe that you have already placed limits to dispute, which correspond to your ideology. Where is the Office of Self-Government, Mr. Arriola? You have already set limits to the debate, limitations according to your political ideas. That is blackmail, although as a political ideology it has another name. This week, Lehendakari Urkullu spoke to us from Quebec about the need for recognition and respect for the national reality of Euskadi. As members of the same government as Mr Urkullu, but at the same time one of the main drivers of the 155, of the intervention of the Catalan Autonomy, of the imprisonment of an entire government, we ask ourselves: How does the PSE intend to contribute to giving way to that demand that is the majority among Basque citizens, that of being able to decide freely the model of relationship that we should maintain with the Spanish State? We wonder where the rights of this people can remain, when there is a partner in the government that defends 155, that is, the intervention of an autonomy like ours, or the establishment of a state of emergency in case the citizenry does not conform to the political positions of PP, PSOE and Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u6	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Urruzuno, you make a statement that should be clarified. You say that most of Euskadi's citizenship claims the right to decide, but you know perfectly well that this alleged right does not appear in any constitution or international convention, because it is a cosmetic expression to refer to self-determination as a means of achieving independence. Why do you in Euskadi claim the right to decide, or self-determination? Precisely for that, isn't it?, to achieve independence from Spain. Or not? Well, if you go to the last Sociometer of the Basque Government, you will see that those who are undoubtedly in favour of independence in Euskadi are 23% of the citizens, not exactly a majority of the citizens of this country. So we don't mix different concepts and objectives to build majorities to taste. And as to whether the application of Article 155 in Catalonia is compatible with the fact that the PSE-Euskadiko Ezkerra-PSOE is in the government of the main institutions of the Basque Country, you see that it is. Aren't you asking me today as a counselor? And I'll tell you more: it's not only compatible, it's good for this country. Because the presence of socialists in the Basque Government not only offers Euskadi stability and certainty, but also helps us to take care of what people are demanding of us in an intense and majority way: to work to reduce unemployment figures and create jobs, to strengthen our health, to work also to bet on innovation, for education, for the social protection system to reach those who need it most... In short, the issues that really concern Basque citizens on a daily basis. And together with all this, and no less important, to ensure the respect and plural coexistence of Basque citizens. Because, if Spain is diverse, so much or more diverse than Spain is the Euskadi itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u9	We're only asking you for something from the Social Party. To know how to distinguish your position as well as your party. It is not possible to represent a people in institutions, and to treat politically of what the people say of the majority, because it is ethically unjust, but because it is politically indissoluble. Where does this government go, which on the one hand claims the right to decide, and on the other hand says that "we will never support the right to decide because it is not democratic", by the mouth of its secretary-general? It is not going anywhere, and this government is not going anywhere. You say that 155 is outside the government agreement, and we ask ourselves: Is not the defence of self-government nuclear for the PNV-PSE government? Isn't it the intervention of autonomy? Isn't it the possibility of imprisoning a democratically elected government in the polls? We would like an answer on that. It's not a viable government. It's not a viable government, but it's not ethical either. It is not ethical for the Government to have a partner that goes against aspirations that are majority in society. That is why we say that the Basque Socialist Party is not able to represent this people institutionally and to be part of the government, because this people mostly demands that they be able to decide, and that their decision be respected. We sincerely believe that you are committing fraud, and that you should act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u11	Mr Urruzuno, this government has a programme, and in this programme what is literally taken up is that we are committed to reforming self-government, and we are also committed to ensuring that such reform is processed in accordance with the legal rules and procedures in force. For one purpose, and the purpose is to deepen democratic coexistence and advance cohesion and social justice. That is the purpose of reform and improvement of self-government. Of course, the purpose is not to divide society and achieve the results we are seeing today in Catalonia. Looks like you want to imitate him, you want to imitate what's going on in Catalonia. It is the worst thing that could happen to us in Euskadi, the example that is happening in Catalonia. And, of course, I will not allow you to talk to me about ethics, to give me ethics lessons as a person and as a member of the Socialist Party. Of course, none of your ethics lessons. None for us. In any case, if you want, you could learn a lot from the lessons that the Socialists, who we have had to endure here in this country, have had to endure for many years, and here we are, as always, standing up to our ideas. You know very well that the Socialist Party has been one of the most active in trying to prevent 155 from being applied, and if it has been applied it is precisely because President Puigdemont and his Government have disregarded all the opportunities they have had on the table. Do not become the worshipers of the fleeting star of independence in Catalonia, when not even Puigdemont and Junqueras themselves are doing so right now, accepting, as they are accepting, the elections of 21 December. If Bildu's proposal is to imitate Catalonia's example and lead us to disaster, certainly you do not count on the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz together with the staff of Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, an investment in the 2018 Preservations of Eukadicus Autonomy in the Renaissance." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u13	Yes, good morning. Thank you, Mrs. President. Mrs Uriarte, last week Mr Azpiazu presented the draft budgets for 2018 referring to them as "the largest budget the Basque Government has ever counted on; the largest budget in history". However, can we talk about the biggest budget in history, when in Education we do not reach the 2010 figures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u15	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs. Macazaga, that's right. As the Chief of the Pedro Subauzu issued on October 24th, 2018, the project of the General Preservation of the Esunomia Preservation at the Esunami Act is 11.486,5 million euros. I mean, the biggest budget of the Eukok's budget was up to now. Euskal economics have maintained their tendency to increase at the first semester of the year 2017. It has grown about 2,8 percent in that period. The budget project for the 2018th year is extremely consistent with the economic organisation and the economic context of the tax. In like manner, our government answers to the double purpose of maintaining that the fundamental necessities of men are satisfied, and to act as levers of growth and employment. That's the model for social armor. Mrs Macazaga, neither the economic environment in which the 2018 budget is contextualised, nor the budgetary context of stability and financial sustainability, make it comparable to the situation in the year 2010 that you intend to compare.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u17	Thank you. Mrs Uriarte, this is certainly not the biggest budget in history in Education. And you know how to measure this? Looking at the investment rather than the current expenditure or the total amount. But even so, in this total amount your department is the least growing of the entire budget: 1.9%, when the whole budget is 3.9%. But, above all, do you know how to measure whether this is a good budget in Education? Looking at what's inverted. And again, the budget they have reserved is shameful. Here's the data, a picture is worth more than a thousand words. For this year it is clear that the investment of 2010 is not even achieved. Nor can we talk about recovering the level of investment from years before the crisis. By 2018 you have budgeted 2,717 million euros of investment in Education, practically what was invested in 2011. The data speak for themselves: we have a budget that invests 130 million less than in 2008 (i.e. before the crisis). And how sad it is that you are satisfied. Mrs. Greart, it is true that the question to-day has only been limited to quantum data-that is, within the largest budget in history, to the millions of dollars which this government has attempted to devote to education. And even if this data is very disturbing to us, we know that the most important thing is that the millions of euros that have not been invested in the future of Euskacata are not yellow, although it is serious, but what it is to invest in. From Elkarrekin We can repeat it on numerous occasions: we are not only concerned about how much is invested, but also how and in what. And the really worrying thing about the budgets that you have submitted for Education is that much of the little that you have increased compared to the previous year is – and I quote literally – "to boost the improvement of education through the expansion of educational concerts". And we ask ourselves: Does this Government really believe that there is no better way to improve the education system than to improve the financing of private education? Does this government really believe that the priority in education is to spend even more on the concerted network? Does this government really believe this, when there are demonstrations and protests from parents because no investments are made in public institutions and more money is given to the concerted network? Gourd aggia aggia yes, sare publikoa indartzea. Strengthening the public network, the only valid tool to guarantee equal opportunities and to compensate for the differences that are evident every day in Basque schools. You should sincerely be ashamed of yourself, Mrs Uriarte, for continuing to leave public education underfunded, for putting aside the demands of parents to improve public school. You should be ashamed of yourself, Mrs Uriarte, for neglecting the demands of trade unions and public education workers who are mobilizing today, today, Friday. Do you really think you have anything to be proud of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u19	Mrs Macazaga, as I moved you in my first speech, both budgets are not comparable. The budgets of the Euskadi Autonomous Community for 2010 were framed in a context of a deep and more lasting economic recession than expected. For the maintenance of our protection model in an unfavourable economic scenario, until the economic context has improved, it has been necessary to resort to indebtedness, from a debt level of 245 million in 2010 to 1,347 million in 2018. Using its own argument, and if we compare the investment with years ago, deducting the debt, the 2018 budget proposal represents 2,716.8 million, 26.79 % of the total, compared to 2,634.89 million and 25.45 % of the total in 2009. Nor would it be reasonable to make this comparison. As I have already commented, the situation is not comparable to the current one. First of all, we think we'll have a chance to defend the budget messages and a proper position for that next week. So I'll leave the specifications there. But I'd like to give you some details, especially what you're talking about. The budget bill next year guarantees its investments back in education. This time, 51, 4 million increase in the budget of our department. In total, the total amount of the budget is 78,8 million euros, up to 1.9. From these we shall direct a great part of the climb to the labourers' hires, and direct our tutors' wages to the promotion and to the recovery of them. On the other hand, the public of our schools and their influence on the improvement of our system, we propose to increase the fund for the equipment of schools, as well as the funding of funds for sub-structions in the college. He anticipates our budget projections, plus additional amounts, to advance the necessary digitalization. It's important we're going to work on it, for they're getting paid as soon as possible. And finally, I think it's important to mention the investment we're looking for in the research. Check the budget, please. But, as I said before, I don't think today is the day for all the specifications, and I hope next week we'll be able to get the money and the bet we're doing for education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary staff of Gloria Sánchez, Martin Sociialists, to the chief of Work and Justice, concerning the corporations of social economy and the European column of Social Rights." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Mrs San José, you, as a Labour and Justice Adviser to the Basque Government, know very well that the European institutions have been committed to the development of a European pillar of social rights, which serves as a guide for action by the countries of the Union. Already in September 2015, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, announced in his speech at the debate session on the state of the European Union his intention to promote the aforementioned European pillar of social rights. Since then, the European Commission has drawn up a first outline of this pillar, which has been discussed at different levels and submitted for public consultation. On 19 January this year the Basque Parliament adopted a resolution tabled by the Portuguese Socialist MEP Maria João Rodrigues. Subsequently, on 26 April, the European Commission adopted a recommendation on the European Pillar of Social Rights structured into three chapters and twenty fundamental principles. Finally, on 29 October, the ministers for employment and social affairs of the European Union unanimously gave the social pillar a green light. This declaration of political commitment must be ratified at the Social Summit for Fair Employment and Growth to be held next 17th of this month in the Swedish city of Gothenburg. This summit will be attended by the Heads of State and Government of the countries of the European Union, in addition to representatives of different trade union, business and social organisations; a scenario of the greatest importance for certifying the pillar of social rights, which aims to achieve greater social cohesion in the European Union. We are faced with a political commitment of a social and labour nature. It is intended to move forward in adapting a current social model to the new challenges we face in the first part of the twenty-first century, and to prevent us from seeing what will no doubt emerge. In this lengthy debate which has taken place at the level of the European social institutions and organisations, emphasis has been placed on the need to create quality jobs. It is significant that this resolution of the European Parliament, to which I referred earlier, literally states: "It is essential that companies have socially responsible behaviour and really bear in mind the sustainability and interests of society. It is useful to involve workers in decision-making." In this sense, "social economy enterprises, such as cooperatives, set a good example in creating quality jobs, supporting social inclusion and promoting the participatory economy," continues the statement. Mrs San José, the functions and areas of action of the Department of Labour and Justice include the social economy, cooperatives, anonymous labour societies and the solidarity economy. The European Parliament's resolution directly links the social economy with the development of the objectives of the European pillar of social rights, and there is no doubt the value of the social economy sector in our Autonomous Community because of its history, consolidation of the sector and involvement in the territory. As an adviser to the Basque Government responsible for the social economy, I would like to ask you in particular, Mrs San José: What can Basque experience in the social economy contribute to the development of the European pillar of social rights?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Mrs Sánchez, you really are asking me a matter of great interest and topicality, for I would first like to announce to you and to the whole House that, in mid-November, within the framework of the next European summit in Gothenburg, we will be participating in the previous conference responsible for analysing the role of the social economy in the future of employment. International conference to be held on 16 November in the Swedish city of Gothenburg and whose conclusions will be transferred to the summit of Heads of State of the European Union which the following day plans to adopt the so-called European pillar of social rights. Pillar based on the objectives of the European Union to promote well-being and sustainable development, with three main strands: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, just working conditions, and social protection and inclusion. The conference prior to the summit was invited the lehendakari to present the importance of the social economy in the Basque Country. The lehendakari has delegated to me the honor of representing you in such an important event. And I sincerely believe that it is no coincidence that among all the European regions the Basque Autonomous Community has been chosen to talk about the reality of its social economy. Please note that, in addition to the resolution to which you referred, and which is very explicit, the social economy is seen by the European institutions as one of the pillars of the European social model. Parliament's resolution of September 2006 on a social model, and specifically the 2009 resolution on the social economy, re-emphasizes its role. Resolution highlighting the role of the social economy in the European economy as a whole, by combining profitability and solidarity, creating quality jobs, strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, generating social capital, and promoting active and solidarity-based citizenship. A form of economy with democratic values, placing the human being at the forefront and contributing to sustainable development and social, environmental and technological innovation. This same Monday in Strasbourg, high institutional and European social economy representatives met to address their development and contribute to the design of the European Union's joint strategy for this business model. Measures under way that will continue to be implemented in the coming months include, inter alia, promoting access to finance and markets for the social economy and improving regulatory frameworks. And these are the issues that we are dealing with here together with the sector, and that will be reflected in the preliminary draft law on cooperatives that we are developing. I think that our participation in that 16th day before the summit of heads of state is an excellent opportunity to highlight the Basque social economy, and a great opportunity to explain in Europe our contribution to achieving the objectives of promoting and promoting the social economy. We are aligned with that idea that Europe has, and our experience is an example for the Union as a whole. The Basque Government's commitment to the social economy is absolute, and I am going to Gothenburg with the aim of revealing a very positive country reality. It is my will to sell Euskadi and rely on it, and we have data to back us up. To tell you only a few, which I will expose more precisely on the 16th, the ecosystem of the social economy of Euskadi consists of more than 2,200 companies, mostly cooperatives and labour societies. The total employment exceeds 70,000 people, and during the crisis, despite some difficulties, the fall in employment was up to six points lower than that of the rest of the companies. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "Queer, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made of the Governor-General of the Public and Autobernus, about traveling to Quebec by an institutional commission." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u25	Thank you. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Erkoreka, what criteria have guided the choice of Quebec as the destination of travel for an institutional delegation headed by the lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, you ask me about the criteria. Precisely the same criteria that guide the Basque Country 2020 Internationalization Strategy adopted by the Basque Government on 8 April, and which aims – as I read – to "place Basque as a global player in the 21st century, with its own space in European construction; an attractive country, highly competitive, recognized for its uniqueness, its high levels of sustainable human development, solidarity, open to the world and closely connected with the Basque community abroad". It is the strategy of internationalisation itself, which has been in force for several months, which identifies Quebec as a priority partner for Euskadi, with the reasons given there. Hence the delegation's agenda, as you have certainly had the opportunity to check – because it is public and appears in all the media – has been filled with acts of economic, cultural, technological and environmental content; moreover, of course, it has included political and institutional contacts, which can never be missed in this type of travel, and meetings forced with the Basque community. Quebec thus joins the Euskadi strategic alliance network, along with six other world-leading regions from different continents (Europe, America and Asia), such as Aquitaine, Bavaria, Flanders, Querétaro, Jiangsu and Cundinamarca. It is a journey full of economic opportunities, which can place on both fronts, the Quebec and the Basque, as entrance doors to the Atlantic facade of both continents. It has, it offers many possibilities from an economic point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u29	I thank you for the answer, Counselor. It is true that your answer does not seem to have much to do with the information we are receiving about how the lehendakari journey to Quebec is taking place, nor the agenda, nor the content of what they are talking about. And it is also true that this region of Quebec, not even Canada, is not among the main export destinations of our companies or our main trading partners. I think he's number 31. Therefore, it did not seem to us that it was an economic reason, and it does seem to be a political reason, chosen, from our point of view – and I have told you – in an inappropriate way, given the political context in which we live right now in Spain and also at the international level. I think the time chosen to visit Quebec has been unfortunate. I do not think it helps to sow certainty, nor does it help to make Euskadi a more attractive place, which is the goal you say you are pursuing with this type of travel. We, in any case, hope that, since the lehendakari has gone there, then, learn, because traveling you learn a lot. They used to say that travel cured nationalism; I believe that travel can at least cure the desire to do certain things that lead only to create problems, to divide societies, to generate uncertainties, which also bring added economic problems, such as those we see in Catalonia, where companies leave. This happened in Quebec. Quebec also opened, by an independenceist impulse, a period of uncertainty that had very serious consequences for its society, serious consequences for the economy. They've probably told the lehendakari that the companies are gone, but they haven't returned any. They're not back. The companies that left on their day in Quebec, because it was an unstable place, have not returned there. They will have told him that the population also left; that the young people went to Toronto; that they have been losing population since then, since it began with that independence drive. They will have told you that today it is the most subsidized region in Canada, because it is right now the poorest, the least developed. One day Montreal was Canada's financial capital. That's all far away. He will have learned that this path leads nowhere interesting for social development and economic development. I didn't have to go that far to learn that, but we hope that at least I learned that in Quebec's trip – unfortunate I believe, in the election –. While he's been away, here's what's been going on. You presented a financial reform, you took advantage of the fact that there was no lehendakari, a tax reform. If it had gone well, then there would have been a press conference in Lehendakaritza; as it went badly, then it was done on the eve of the feast and with the lehendakari outside. I don't think it helps to make Euskadi a more attractive territory either, but I'll tell you one thing. We understand that we must work together, that we must help, that we must seek stability. I believe that this tax reform is not respectful of the commitments we have made, but I believe it is very important to fulfil the commitments we have made and the agreements we have reached. We will work so that it can be amended and that then we can be respectful of what we agreed in our budget pact, and we will continue to work to demonstrate one thing: that through the agreement between different, representing the different identities here in Euskadi, taking care of coexistence through negotiation between governments and between parties, it is where we can draw a positive fruit that favors stability, that away from uncertainties to Euskadi, that does not make us follow bad examples, and that therefore can achieve what you said you have as your goal on your agenda, that is to make Euskadi a truly attractive territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I will give you a fact that you probably do not know but that I consider it essential to understand the meaning of the journey and to realize that it is anything less improvised or conditioned by the political situation. Look, this trip begins four years ago, on the occasion of a visit that then took to Quebec by the then Minister of the Environment and Territorial Policy of the Basque Government, Ana Oregi. And the lehendakari agreed with the Quebec Prime Minister at the Paris Climate Summit in December 2015. If you want a temporary reference, Puigdemont had not even been elected president at the time. And, having said that, your question gives me three thoughts. First, do you really believe that you have the slightest experience of that commitment of you and your party in Euskadi (not that of Madrid, that of Euskadi) to sell the image of the lehendakari as a dangerous and irresponsible radical? Do you think that you have the slightest tour of that obsessive effort that you are demonstrating this past week? Secondly, have you consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this commitment to denouncing and disqualifying Quebec, and Canada in general, as the destination of the foreign action of the autonomous communities? Please read it, because I see the Spanish state very interested in selling or presenting Canada as a partner and friend country. And thirdly, you tell me about learning, that the lehendakari will learn there. Well, yeah, look. Look, it's just that Canada has a lot to teach Euskadi! He's got a lot to teach. Among other things, it has been able to channel territorial conflicts in strictly democratic terms, and not in code (how am I going to tell you?)..., not from the budgets of a pre-political dogma such as that of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, that does not lead anywhere and that does prevent any agreement and understanding in the field of territorial conflicts. In a speech this week, the Lehendakari, there in Quebec, has made a proposal that rests on four pillars: permanent dialogue, democratic principle, principle of legality, and negotiation and bilaterality. Do these words hurt you so much? Are you so concerned about these principles? I believe that they are acceptable to all democrats and, of course, to the vast majority of the members of this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation of Maddalen Irina, members of the House of the Collectors, made to the Chief Governor of Public and Autobernus as regards the independent Republic of Catalonia." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u33	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, Mr. Erkorek. I'm running you today, but of course it's not between you and me today. And it's not like this, I think, or the Basque Country, and it's like, "You know, it's not like that." Today, it's more than ever, with the thousands of people we represent and the thousands you represent. To-day one part of the people asks the other part of the people: What are we going to do about Catalonia? Shall we act like a country for once? All of us together? Shall we confess the Republic of Catalonia? That's what we're asking here today in this legislation. I don't know how you've lived this Catalan process. You can't put it in your skin, but I'm gonna ask you to do an exercise. I'll ask you to think suddenly of Catalonia, what's going on in your head, be honest. We'll see how many of us are coming. What image can you think of? What flash? I'm the last one that comes to me from yesterday. The Conselles or, like you, the chief physician, amid the siren voices, in the Civil Guard van to the jail. Can you imagine that you, the other chief of the departments here, are in such a trance? Dressed up in white wine, in the basement jail? Even in Catalonia, they probably wouldn't have imagined it, and there, the Councillor, Junqueras, Romeva, Turull, spent the night in prison. And if I look back, other images come to me. I think of war, Guerre... of these Alfonso. And I remember making that image, like a cesile. Then several more flashs: People were trying to vote, the police were hitting, the spit on the floor, the votes on the floor... There's an oatmeal coming in among those pictures. I see grown-ups, grown-ups, happy, proud, trying to vote. Estelas, blue and yellow. People in the street, members of the government, all together, all in front of the world, all together. I also have images of violent people, violent people on the street, but the only violence I've ever seen, the truth, was wrapped in a Spanish flag. That's the only violence, fascist violence I've seen in Catalonia. And I've seen these pictures from a screen, I don't know how you'd see them. I didn't have a chance to go to Catalonia, but fortunately the catata works have come to tell us what they're living in. I remember the round of the table where the ANC put out in Bilbon. Josephba Egibar will remember him, for he also took part in it, and the Iritrartes of Maddalen, the Field of Nicholas, and from Catalonia came to Tardà, Jordi Turull and Jordi Sánchez. And then we all ate lunch together. I remember that during the meal the subject of the prison came out, and, in truth, the conversation was not too misguided, as seen: the Spanish state never disappoints; the people of 155, therefore, the truth, is quite predictable. And I remember telling Jordi Turull, spokesman for the Generalitat now in prison, that one of the things that caught my attention the most when I joined the Euskal group Herria Bildu was how many companions, how many family members of my companions had gone through prison, and had gone through prison for defending political ideas. Just for that, for doing politics. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u34	Please be quiet. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u35	And besides... Today is not your day, today you are not government, and as far as I come you have not yet applied 155 to us. So, let me talk. It's not anymore. And I explained to him that prison is already part of our culture, and that sometimes, for example, we go out to the courtyard here, from Parliament, and we say, "Let's take a prison walk, from those on the right, a few meters." And prison could be said as it is a kind of intangible Basque cultural heritage, it has entered our lives. And it's also courtesy of the Spanish state. And now Turull, who is in prison, is in prison to defend his ideas, he is in prison to defend the people's orders. He is in prison to defend these ideas in a peaceful manner. That's why I'm going to pick up the words of Turull himself, who has written to his family and the people he wants. He tells them not to worry about him, he's fine, because he's convinced that what he's done is not a crime, nor does it hurt anyone. And that is what we want to say to the people of Catalonia today: we know better than anyone what you are suffering, and what is left for you to suffer, unfortunately, but it's okay, it's okay what you're doing. Be proud, for it is a lesson of dignity that you are giving to the world. That's what we want to say to Catalonia. How many times did you tell us (you told us) that everything could be defended if it was in a peaceful way or by political means, you told us the 155? What a lie! What a lie! A legitimately elected parliament has defended a legitimate idea, independence, as it has defended itself in other European countries. But the state's response has been to the Spanish: first blows, and then jail. That was the answer. Now, alas, Catalonia will know what prison culture is, what it's like to take the children every weekend, take father and mother, and run miles and miles to see those you love. In Catalonia they will know, they are already knowing, the vengeful policy of the state; a state that does not pursue crimes, a state that pursues ideas. The vice-president of the Senate, Mr Pedro Sanz, has already warned that if independenceists win on 21 December, then 155 will come back into effect. With the noses. Spain, I think, is also a cultural problem, a cultural problem with the no. He does not accept the no, he does not accept political dissent. It is also a cultural problem that comes from afar, from centuries ago. It hasn't changed much, either. Today, for example, the same parameters are repeated as during the Inquisition, with one difference: then people were persecuted in the name of God and with a cross in their hand; now they are persecuted in the name of the law and with the Constitution in their hand. Now, there has been a small difference: before people were burned in the bonfire and now, fortunately, they are only put in jail for half a life. Eta guk herri bezala zer egin behar dugu? Denok bat egingo dugu, bai ez? Kataluniako Errepublika aitortuko dugu, bai ala ez? Edo beastedera begiratuko dugu? What is this government going to do, Mr Erkoreka? Are you going to recognize the Republic of Catalonia, are you going to act like a people, or are you going to look the other way? What are you going to do? Because recognizing the independent republic of Catalonia is to be with the Jordis and the incarcerated government, and not with the 155. Because to recognize the Republic of Catalonia is to be with the ballot box and not with the tricorns. To confess the Republic of Catalonia is to support the peaceful ways of democracy, which is to confess the republic. Maybe we can have the feeling that we're watching all this from laughter that's happening in Catalan. But do any one think that if the State of Spain prevails in Catalonia, we will not be splashed by it? You think so? Does anyone think that in 40 years the greatest attack against democracy we have seen will not overtake us? It's gone. Hau ez of the erritmo kontua. Hau ez da ez reggaeton eta euskal rockaren artean aukeratu beharra. This is not a question of whether we want it "slowly, step by step" or all cane. It's not. This is much simpler, much more basic. This is a matter of survival, of responsibility, of honesty, of courage too. It's time to decide which way we want to go, and with whom we want to go. This town has to decide whether we're going to join Catalonia or not. Now's the time. We are ready for it, and do not speak as a party to-day, we speak as a people. And, Mr. Erkoreka, we're willing to be generous. There is generosity in the broadest sense of that word. Yes, our hands are open. They're open. Listen carefully, Mr. Erkoreek. It's kind of nice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Agirre andrea, in Catalonia, there are currently three agendas (co-existing, as it were) in Catalonia: one media, one judicial and another political. On the media, which is very important and very influential and includes social media, I will not speak, because it does not belong to me. On the judiciary, I am going to say very briefly that the unconditional prison decreed yesterday by the head of Central Court of Instruction No. 3 seems disproportionate, absolutely unnecessary, and counterproductive. I also believe, from a more legal point of view, that it is inconsistent, from the point of view of the framing of the facts in the context of the crime of rebellion (and I invite your ladies and gentlemen to read the parliamentary background of the current Penal Code in this matter, and the contributions that the Basque Parliamentary Group made in the Congress and in the Senate, so that it became clear that only the public and violent uprising was rebellion), but I also find it inconsistent from the point of view of assessing the circumstances that contribute to the decree of provisional imprisonment. Just one example, because I have no more time: it seems to me that there is a danger or high danger of destruction of evidence by advisers who are dismissed and cannot access their offices, it seems absolutely sarcastic to me. Then there's a political book too. As for the political agenda, you say that the Parliament of Catalonia has proclaimed the independent republic of Catalonia, and moreover you arrange it or build it in this supposed fact, and then you begin to do so, you ask the Government what its intention is of the independent republic of Catalonia. I have read several times the proclamation made on the 27th of October by the Parliament of Catalonia, that is to say, by a proclamation called 'Procés constituent', the central or most important of the three of the Deltas. And I've got to admit that I don't agree with your business here. What the Parliament of Catalonia has accepted by word is: "Declaration of the beginning of the opening of the constituent process". Berrio irakuriko said: "Declaration of the beginning of the opening of the constituent process". Ez naiz dokumentuaren hitzaurreaz ari, balio juridikoa daukan dokumentuaren zatiaz batho. This phrase, this phrase I read to you, says what it says, but does not say what it does not say. Perhaps in this Chamber someone would have preferred to say something else, but that doesn't change things because reality is reality. And it's true, this statement could say something else. But he says what he says and doesn't say what he doesn't say. The question is, someone might ask: Those who wrote that text didn't write what they had to write? I don't think so. I think they wrote what they wanted to write, and they didn't want to write what they didn't write, and if they didn't write anything, they didn't want to. This is probably not my only criterion, probably more than one in front of the courts these days will defend the view I'm standing here. I do not know whether you or any other of the members of the local legislature have written in this law, or the members of the legislature who will criticize them for what they have not written in their case, because things are wrong, or because they have to discuss things differently. No, I respect them. For the decisions made by the institutions of Catalonia are, I think, due to respect. They owe their respect, what they say, whether they please themselves or not, whether they are what they would do or not. All that about words. And what can we say about actions? I'm talking about the trial at the moment, I'm talking about the trial book on the political agenda in Catalonia right now, I've talked about it before, if something important is on the political agenda in Catalan, that it's the elections of December 21st, autonomous elections. They're not corporate elections, they're autonomists, they're not self-conscious elections referred to in the 27th of October, but autonomous elections called by Rajoy. I see at this moment every side of Catalonia ready to take part in this election and take steps to do so. PDeCAT has made it clear that he has a clear and firm intention of sharing these elections. "Señor Rajoy" was saying that his principal secretary would say a few days ago, "nos veremos en las urnas." In fact, the candidates are starting to choose, and someone has already offered to be head of the list. ERCk was a berdin. Haren bozeramaileak azi asko aziazi zuen joan den astelehenean: "The ERC is not afraid of the ballot boxes". Eta inork zalantzarik bazuen, Puigdemontek berak argitu zuen joan den estartean Bruselan egindako adierazpen hartan: "We take elections as a democratic challenge. Democratic challenges do not frighten us. Whenever there are ballot boxes, there we will be, in the field of democracy, in which we are stronger and in which we have always won." And if all this were small, the chiefs of the Åmbla Nacional de Cataluña have asked Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánche to put in the lists. Now, probably, they'll even ask everyone else who's locked up. Looking at the Catalonia, the conversation about elections is now dominant in the stratums of political actors. They're all wrong, they're all wrong. They should act differently. They shouldn't be involved in these elections because they're a fraud election. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't say that, and I wouldn't dare to give advice to any political actor in Catalonia in this area. On the contrary, I have respected them so far, I respect them now, and I will also make their decisions because they belong to Catalan, because they belong to Catalan. And today, in political matters, protagonism is starting at least as far as the political agenda is concerned. I've spoken of the judicial agenda, and I've summed up my opinion. My plan is, therefore, respect for the decisions which the political actors of the place receive. I don't know what your attitude is. Are you going to tell them things are going wrong? Are you going to tell them that this announcement of October 27 was wrong? Are you going to tell them that phrase that they were supposed to write in another way? I don't. Are you going to tell them they don't have to participate in these elections? I don't. I will respect their decisions. And since you're talking about fun, it'll be fun too, she'll respect the decisions they make there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek, for all these legal explanations. But I don't know what part of the country you represent and what part of the town we represent has understood anything. I think we don't need a lawyer right now, we need a politician right now and we need to make politics. It's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a bath, it's wrong to take a look at a Because recognizing is not patting on the back and saying, "What a pity, we are with you, and what we are going to do to him and what evil." To recognize is to support them, is to commit to Catalonia, is to help them, is to confront those who attack them as well. That is what Catalonia needs, apart from respect, indeed. And look, there's a lot of things we won't agree and we don't have to, but I think we have a country here that we all are and we're seeing it in our own countries. We've seen him in Villabon, we've seen Toulouse, we've seen Andoain. That's what this town is asking for. The people we represent, the ones you represent, that's the way. And that's respect, respect for Catalan, but also our people. We also deserve respect. That's why now it's time to make a decision. Now is the time to confess the Republic of Catalonia and we all know what we're talking about, so let's not lose ourselves in legal tricks. We all know what we're talking about. That's what we're asking, and that's what we're offering, and we're offering our generosity, so that we can act like a town for once. We are a people, with our differences, and there will be a great difference, and as it is in Catalonia, there is a great difference between the people, but they are united, and that is what we need here. We, too, have told you before, will act generously, well listened, generously. But please, for once, let's be a village. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. You tell me about the jurists, but what you require here is to make a legal action, and to perform an act of juridic consequences, and to know how the juridic step may follow one another. What I'm saying is, according to my reading, that what you're saying has not happened is the confirmation you've made. It's probably just coincidence, but what you seem to be made is what Lamel says himself, that's what you agree with him. Lamel says: "Todas estaciones se therellavado finalmente, el día 27 de octubre de 2017, a la votacion y Testición en el Pleno del Parlament de generatera de indepenencia, lo que que que a lagar a a a aplicacio porpoón, delbierno del articulo 15." Consider whether this is a legal value, and whether to be strictly severe is important in this area. And what you say, the reading you read, it fits. It's probably not on purpose. Well, what I'm saying is, according to my reading, that there is no foundation for this, at least today, there is no foundation for it. Another thing is, that you do not agree with this expression, and that you prefer that the Parliament of Catalonia had done another expression, in other terms, but has not done it. And I am quite clear, too, of what they said, and of what they set up, as they had done, with all their jurists and political conclusions. Therefore, don't be sure that this or that has happened, and that the consequences are drawn, when there are clear and strong doubts about it. And don't feed the legal and political readings that can possibly be turned against more than one. I am sure that more than one reading which I have here will be used in Catalonia and Madrid in court, so that it will be attended with care. Let's all be responsible. Let's all be responsible. Yesterday the president made a statement about this, and repeated our planning and the government position about the future of the future future and the future of the auto-organization. He said, as far as he was concerned, and if we need it with more force than we have yet, we must confirm the way of dialogue and negotiation with the will to achieve realism. And that's why the forums are placed, not only in society, but also in this legislature. I confess, indeed, that all the parliamentary groups have the right of planning out of here and out of here the enterprises they want. But this tendency, all subjects which have a peculiar tendency to bring this tendency to platitude, seems to indicate something. Lehendakariak esaten zuen baita ere: "To stress the priority of avoiding any kind of social or political fracture, and to be very aware of the consequences of the decisions taken". I regard this as very important, especially about the concept you use of the people. When it is spoken in the name of the people, and in the name of the people, that they do not represent the whole people, it has its dangers, and has its consequences, from the point of view of the cohesion of society, and also from the point of view of the possibility or the possibility of the people itself. So let's be careful about that. The people are the people, and no one has the right to speak here alone in the name of the people. The agreement, it is necessary to acknowledge that we live in a multitude of societies, in a society with different points of view, in which identity is different, in a society which has different affections, and we must here make a special effort, to find a path between them, and this legislature has a power to produce for this purpose, and this power ought to make a special effort to obtain a treaty, as it is said in the agreement of our co-ordination of our government, in order to obtain as extensive and integrated as possible. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Governors and the chief physician of the Autobernus, concerning the fulfilment of the 20/1997 Act of December to promote Irisability." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u43	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments. Erkoreka jauna, what steps will be taken by the Basque Government to ensure universal accessibility in government-dependent public spaces, such as schools and health centres? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Guanche, last week I was on behalf of the Basque Government on the day that Eginaren Eginez organized on the occasion of the celebration of the twenty years of the Law for the Promotion of Accessibility, and I had the opportunity to hear directly the demands of this association and other people, as well as to expose the policy that the department has followed and is going to follow in this area. On 4 December, two decades of this law were fulfilled, which went beyond the removal of barriers and architectural barriers for those who suffer from physical limitations, because the concept of accessibility is already closely linked to the values of freedom and equality of all people. Two decades later, the aspiration of this law, certainly advanced, remains in force. Important steps have been taken to incorporate the accessibility requirement into the design of urban environments, public spaces, buildings and transport and communications systems in their broadest sense. We have made a lot of progress, yes, but we have to look at what we still have to do, which is still a lot. Even in some public buildings there are still shortcomings, as evidenced by a recent study by Ararteko. The Basque Council for the Promotion of Accessibility, where we meet the Basque Government, the other Basque administrations, associations representing people with some functional disabilities, consumer and user organisations, the association of promoters and builders, and professional colleges, was created at the time. It is a living advice, and in fact we will meet this next Monday with the will to give it a new impetus to lead the implementation of the concept of universal accessibility in all areas of our society. This implies a very substantial change of mindset. The 97 Act moved from the concept of marginalization and exclusion, which required removing barriers, to a concept of accessibility and inclusion for all. Now, this rule should be the basis for defining a future of universal accessibility, as an aspiration to social equality based on the full accessibility of all people to all services, including digital environments. Therefore, after listening to this advice, our department will propose to the lehendakari to activate a Basque strategy for universal accessibility, understood as a way to advance in the equal opportunities and improvement of the quality of life of all people. We conceive of this strategy as a comprehensive country bet, as was the law, involving all the institutions, as well as the entities and associations concerned. Within this strategy, which must be cross-cutting for all areas of government, we will have to address the identification and resolution of the gaps that still exist, and for this we will find very useful the report made by Ararteko and the warnings that we make from the associations and people affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u46	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u47	Well, first of all, Mr. Arriola, thanks for the answer. On 18 February 2017, on the initiative of our parliamentary group and with the agreement of all the groups present in this House, an agreement was reached that required an assessment of the existing needs. And there's Ararteko's report, and there's what he picked up on the days... Today you have not appointed this agreement. We know that progress is being made on an easy-to-read plan, an issue that we certainly applaud, but we do not think it is enough, because accessibility has to go beyond mere computer accessibility, let us say, and we certainly believe that there are serious problems, which you have acknowledged and which I understand do not touch, because they have already proposed to put a solution to them. But we are concerned where is the strategic bet for accessibility, a law that has been passed for twenty years and twenty years unfulfilled. And we are concerned because you have told me today a lot of things that are very interesting to me, but you have not told me when, nor have you told me where the budget allocation is for that strategy that you want to set in motion to go forward. And I'd appreciate it if you said so. It is true that in your department there is a rather small amount of money earmarked for accessibility, and I would like to know, since it has moved me to what is the government's plan, where the development of this plan will be economically supported. We are concerned because we understand that there are things that cannot be done overnight. But we are concerned that the little by little, or the slowness that has been appointed several times this morning, always affects only the same people. We are concerned that the most vulnerable are always those who have to wait, that is, those who see their rights undermined. On the other hand – and I would also like to take this space to see if you have a chance to answer me – the Ararteko the other day reminded us that accessibility has three legs: mobility, communication and information, and I understand that this strategy should address those three legs. I understand that this too will be discussed with the council, and I understand that they will put the information to us as soon as they have it. But we would also like to know when and how. Inklusioa, letter larriz, es da dibertsitate futzionala dutsonen ardura Bakarrik, gizartea osorăren ardura baizik. We welcome the commitment to this strategy, and hope that it will develop soon. We will, of course, continue to monitor compliance with the law and with the commitments of the Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u49	Mrs Guanche, indeed, as you have commented, within my department there are a number of games that directly affect what accessibility is. Several games. One relates to the programme "Renovation of buildings and housing", which has an amount of 5.5 million euros. In addition, we have another grant to the municipalities for the theme of accessibility actions in the municipalities, of 3.3 million. We have a generic urban regeneration and building rehabilitation, in which an important part is devoted to the topic of accessibility in housing buildings (elevators, ramps, etc.). With this we are acting, bearing in mind that we start from what we are starting from, that it is not only the public buildings, that the buildings of the communities are precisely the ones that have the most deficiencies in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u50	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Your time is up. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interface, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Eupilla Group, made of Eplegus and National Society, about early attention." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. To-day, Popular Party brings back an interesting subject to this plenon, we direct an interpenetration of early attention to the chief physician. Decree 13/2016 of 2 February 2016 on comprehensive intervention in Early Care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country seeks to establish a regulatory framework in the field of early care with the aim of setting the basic standards for organizing and coordinating the set of interventions that must accompany early care in the various fields, such as education, health and social services. And the aim is to ensure comprehensive and effective attention where the different actions of these three areas to which I have just referred are coordinated. No one escapes that child development is characterized in the early years by the acquisition of functions as relevant as postural control, autonomy in displacement, communication, verbal language, social interaction... Child development can be said to be an absolutely dynamic, complex process that is prolonged over time, and on a genetic basis that also interacts with various factors (biological, psychosocial...), and any action in these elements can lead to a risk that can lead to developmental disorders of children, or to a risk of some developmental disorder or disorder. As is obvious, these alterations can occur at any stage of child development, and moreover, according to the statement of the above-mentioned decree, reference is made to the fact that even 10% of the child population can be affected. Therefore, we are talking about a problem, a matter of great magnitude and relevance, which requires the necessary attention by the public authorities. As I said, early care is a set of interventions that are broken down into specific services, programmes and actions aimed at the child population aged between zero and six, with the aim of preventing, or responding if we are already experiencing a disorder in the development of the child, as soon as possible. These are actions that can be temporary or permanent, as I say, in children who already have these disorders, who have disorders, or who are at risk of suffering from them. It should be noted that in 2008 there was a process of reflection on this issue, particularly with regard to the need to establish a model of coordinated attention between the deputies and the Basque Government. Because the level of development of the attention of the various institutions, both parliaments and the Basque Government, was quite different, and there was therefore a need to coordinate and establish a common framework for action, and above all to clearly delineate the competences of the Basque Government in the field of education, social services and health. This reflection took place at the Basque Council for Social Welfare. As a result of this reflection, the Council drew up a model document for early care which was to be established for the future in the Basque Autonomous Community, and the aim was to establish, apart from a coordinated model of early care, a multidisciplinary model and a comprehensive model of care. Following this process of reflection, the aforementioned decree of 2016 is approved, and we have to say from the People's Group that we... In addition, in that elaboration or in that drafting, the three deputies also intervened in that process, and, as the councillor knows, at that time both the Deputy of Gipuzkoa and the Deputy of Álava and the Deputy of Bizkaia were represented by three different parties, and there were many differences in relation to the draft of the said decree. Specifically, Gipuzkoa and Álava pointed out their suspicions and expressed their suspicions that the above-mentioned decree, or the draft at that time, did not clearly disaggregate or disregard the responsibilities that corresponded to each of the three areas, especially within the competence of the Basque Government. We have to say that, unfortunately, those suspicions that we have already expressed at the time have been fulfilled, and that the aforementioned decree of 2016 has not borne the expected fruit and presents clear dysfunctions that we believe this government has to fix, has to alleviate or remedy. And the suspicions were that, by not being clearly unbridled, the competencies that corresponded to each of the areas in which the Basque Government has specific powers, such as health, education and social services, were concrete, so those responsibilities would finally fall on the outside bodies, as has happened. And that has placed an additional burden on the outlaws. We have seen – and that is something we have denounced also in the general boards of the three territories, and in particular there have also been specific debates on this issue in the general boards, carried by the People's Party, we have seen delays in the assessments, we have seen increased waiting lists for access to services, later incorporation into the treatments, decrease in the intensity of the treatments after the evaluation and prescribed the corresponding treatment by the early care assessment team (EVAT). And all this has resulted from the fact that the Basque Government has not assumed its specific responsibilities in the areas in which it had to have assumed them, and in particular because the aforementioned decree does not clearly establish the responsibilities of the Basque Government. There is a very specific question that I believe clearly reflects the dysfunctions of this whole situation, which is, of the treatments that have actually been prescribed by the early-care assessment team, how many have finally been taken over by the Basque Government and how many have been taken over by the Members of Parliament. All this, which we were already warning was not being done well, has come as a result of a decree drafted in a very generalistic way, where clearly there were loopholes left for the Basque Government to avoid the responsibilities it had to assume under its competences, and the lack of concreteness to which I referred in the competences of the specific areas of health, education and social services. All this has led to worse attention, to a reduction in the care of children from zero to six years of age, especially taking into account the attention during this period and the importance of rapid care when there may be disorders in children's development or the risk of these disorders, since no one escapes that such care has to be rapid, agile and in the shortest possible time, with a view to stimulating brain activity as necessary, in order to, as far as possible, recover the normal development of children. I ask you, Madam Counsellor, if you, having seen the results of the implementation of this decree – which, as I say, initially the three outlaws were not governed by the same parties; were not governed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party after the last elections – you are considering some sort of self-criticism, if you intend to make any modification of the decree. And that is why we have asked you this question, with the specific question of whether you are going to assume the competences and obligations that you have under both the Social Services Act and the Carter's Decree, and whether you are asking, in view of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of this decree, to amend the regulations with a view to definitively clarifying the competences that the Basque Government has in the three specific areas (health, education and social services), which today seems to be not very clear in that decree (it presents loopholes that are also leading the Basque Government not to assume the responsibilities and competences that it would have to assume), and that is a burden added to the outlaws. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u52	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u53	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. The Basque Council, together with a series of initiatives of the three outlaws, sought to define a coordinated model, as you said, of early care, and in 2010 promoted a joint reflection expressed in the document entitled "Model of early care for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country". This text served as a reference for an interinstitutional technical commission constituted for this purpose to present in mid-2012 a proposal for theoretical-practical regulation, origin of the decree 13/2016, of 2 February, of integral intervention in Early Care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The purpose of this decree is to regulate the comprehensive intervention provided in the framework of public responsibility, establishing the fundamental elements of the management of an intervention model coordinating the actions of the systems involved in the provision of early care services, and not establishing the actions whose development corresponds to the systems. It is therefore up to us to determine, but not to establish what the actions are. As the decree itself says, child development is a very complex dynamic process in which, on a certain genetic basis, as you said, interact multiple biological and psychosocial factors. Early care is directed at the child population from zero to six years of age with developmental disorders or at risk of developing them. In this intervention the health and education systems and social services, which carry out actions within the framework of their competences, and the different professionals of interdisciplinary orientation, participate. The legislation developed for early care makes the multidisciplinary theoretical-practical framework and the concept of early care available to professionals in such systems. Without prejudice to the shared responsibility between these three systems, the comprehensive and interdisciplinary model proposes to assign the primary responsibility in the inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to the Basque system of social services, for reasons of functionality. The service of social intervention in early care is universalized as a subjective right from 26 September 2016, under the first transitional provision of Law 12/2008. It should be recalled that the Social Services Act, in its article 31, states that the Basque Government, in exercising its competence in the field of social services, "will coordinate and cooperate with other public systems or policies (...) aimed at social welfare", through the elaboration of the necessary regulations for the articulation of the social services system itself, on the basis of the guiding principles set out in the law. Similarly, Article 5 of the Early Care Decree sets out and defines the areas and levels of intervention. There are therefore three areas (health, education and social services) which are involved in early care from a preventive and care perspective through the following levels of intervention. The first, at the primary level, including all those actions in the three systems aimed at avoiding conditions that may lead to the emergence of deficiencies or disorders in child development. At the second level, the secondary level, including all actions aimed at early detection and diagnosis of developmental deficiencies or disorders or the risk of them, in order to avoid or reduce the negative consequences of the conditions detected. They are developed basically through the application of health treatments, in those processes that can be improved; in the design and application of curricular adaptations, as well as personalized work plans that guarantee the development of basic competencies; in the prescription of support products and adaptations of the physical environment, and in the design and implementation of social intervention programmes. And at the tertiary level, including all actions aimed at eliminating or reducing the negative consequences of deficiencies, disorders or dysfunctions observed in the development of the child. It is developed through all interventions aimed at the child, his/her family and his/her environment, in order to improve the conditions of his/her development, and is an enabling, rehabilitating, therapeutic and response intervention to family and environmental needs. In addition, article 8 of the decree also articulates the structure of inter-institutional coordination, which is fundamental to the interdisciplinary and integral nature of early-care intervention. This coordination is aimed at ensuring effective collaboration and coordination between health, education and social services systems, and to this end the following bodies are attached to the department of the Basque Government responsible for social services, such as the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care and the Interinstitutional Technical Commission for Early Care. With regard to the financing of the early-care intervention teams (IAT), the relevant expenditure studies carried out by the three systems (social, through the three parliaments, education and health) are currently being prepared, and it is the Interinstitutional Technical Commission for Early-care that is carrying out this study, which will, when it is concluded, refer the matter to the Interinstitutional Council for Early-care to determine what we consider appropriate. The Basque Government carries out all the interventions it has in the field of early care through the Departments of Education, Health, Employment and Social Policy, and these benefits are carried out in accordance with the respective portfolios of services and services, as well as in accordance with the personalised care plan that has been developed by the assessment team for each child. Thus, Basque health has deployed a wide range of programmes and actions directly related to this field, in terms of both preventive and therapeutic aspects. These include, for example, the Health and Women Programme, the Neonatal Screening of Endocrine-Metabolic Diseases Programme, the articulation of neonatal units, the articulation of primary care pediatrics, the articulation of child psychiatry services, or the early detection programme for child deafness. Special mention also deserves the Programme for the Comprehensive Care of Children with Special Needs (PAINNE), led by Health in coordination with social services and the Department of Education, which is currently being strengthened in the territory of Bizkaia and will be extended to the rest of the territories. The benefits offered to all persons by the Basque health system are set out in Royal Decree 1030/2006 of 15 September, establishing the portfolio of common services of the National Health System, as well as in subsequent development regulations, on which the Basque system itself has developed services or services above that portfolio of common services, such as neonatal screening of congenital diseases. The Department of Health also ensures, through the funding of Osakidetza and the hiring of complementary private means, with its own budget, the provision of all services to meet the specific health needs of girls and boys between the ages of zero and six. In the field of education, intervention takes place on the basis of the schooling of boys and girls. All educational services meet the objective of guaranteeing the right to education and equal opportunities for all pupils with special educational support needs, including all those who may need early and sustained intervention over time. She highlighted the creation of the Berritzeguneak education support services, which included child education advisory services and, more specifically, those with special educational needs. For its part, the strategic plan for attention to diversity, within the framework of the inclusive school, includes among its goals the development of the interdepartmental model of early care in the field of its competences. In the field of social services, two major groups of activities are being developed. On the one hand, measures in the field of protection for children at risk of being unprotected or in situations of unprotected, within the normative framework of the Act on the Care and Protection of Children and Adolescents. And, on the other hand, measures to promote autonomy and care for disability and dependence, within the normative framework of the unit and the autonomous regulations in force in the field of social services. And, therefore, the service of social intervention in early care is expressly envisaged among the services included in the catalogue of services and services of the Basque system of social services. Therefore, as far as the Basque Government is concerned, the powers are taken over, and we do not see any need to amend the rules you mention. Moreover, it is not understood that an amendment to this decree is now being proposed, which had such a high degree of participation from the part of the Government and the rest of the three outlaws at the time of its drafting. What we need to do is continue to improve coordination, to ensure a quality service for children aged zero to six in the area of early care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u55	Thank you, President. Well, in a high participation we can agree that it had the whole process of reflection and elaboration of the draft and definitely of the decree, but no consensus, counselor, because you know very well that precisely the aforementioned decree is approved in the year 2016, when the debate and the process of reflection is already opened and we go back to the year 2008 (you have also made reference to the year 2010). That is, a lot of reflection, a lot of opinions. And you know precisely that the degree of consensus before the municipal and outlying elections of 2015..., there was no degree of consensus on the part of the three deputies in relation to this decree. Moreover, the Basque Government is taking advantage of the change of government in the deputies of Gipuzkoa and Álava, which were the ones who opposed the drafting of the decree and the regulation of the decree as it was all pointed out, as a result of the suspicions that the competences that would belong to each of the three institutions, that the decree was quite generalist, that left out. And in the end all those suspicions have been confirmed. Therefore, there may have been a lot of participation, but total consensus did not. There was consensus when the PNV had all the institutions and then gave the approval to the adoption of this decree, but previously you know (at that time I think it had no responsibilities, obviously), that in the Parliament of Alava ruled the People's Party, and was in the City Hall of Vitoria, but that the drafts of this decree did not have the consensus of the three outlaws, and after the elections it was when the decree was passed. The decree clearly leaves room for the Basque Government to escape from the assumption of the competences it has assigned, and this lack of definition of the competences of each of the three sectors or areas has clearly led to a decline in the attention given to children from zero to six years of age. If the purpose of the above-mentioned decree was to coordinate the actions, to give comprehensive and multidisciplinary attention, and to establish a common regulatory framework, also with the clear setting of the responsibilities and obligations of each institution, then the above-mentioned decree, in terms of the results, has not served much. And that is why we ask you if you are considering, amending the above-mentioned decree. Here are the data, which have been asked through numerous questions – at least we in the institutions at the General Boards of Álava – which clearly show that the functioning of the early care service has clear shortcomings due to the regulation of the decree itself, which does not clearly define the competences of the institutions and of the educational, social and health fields, and specifically also the competences of the Basque Government, which is where the Basque Government is finally escaping. This means that the powers of the Basque Government, which does not assume them, must be assumed by the Members of Parliament. And what we are concerned about is that, apart from the fact that we do not have an approval of the decree, because I say that we did not agree and so we expressed in the aforementioned bodies the position of the Foral Diputación de Álava, which also coincided at that time with the Diputación de Gipuzkoa, governed by EH Bildu, because, in the end, it has led to a decrease in the attention paid in early care to children from zero to six years. We are talking about clear delays in the assessments, the time later in which children are incorporated into the treatments, the loss in the treatments themselves, the longer waiting lists. We are seeing – and we have had these debates in this House – that support and reinforcement in schools has been considerably reduced. And all this has led to MEPs having to assume obligations that do not belong to them, because the Basque Government has been unable to clearly delineate its responsibilities in this decree. That is why, Madam Counsellor, I think the question is obvious, and the answer also had to be obvious. The dysfunctions are there, the deficiencies are there, and I think you have to consider amending the rules, because you have to clarify the competences. What cannot be done is that, due to a lack of clarification of the competences of the Basque Government, this falls on other institutions that have to assume the work and obligations that the Basque Government is not currently assuming.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Well, Mrs Garrido, the three outlaws adopted the decree, had a unanimous consensus by the relevant institutions in the provision of the early care service, and understood the institutions that approved it to be a great step forward in improving the assistance that was being given to children from zero to six years of age. Because, moreover, at the time when the decree was adopted, it was an increase in the age of care for children, because up to the moment children were being cared for from zero to three years old. Therefore, the competencies were already defined, the protagonists who had to take care of the needs of these children were already clarified, and what happened was an increase in the age of care, as the White Paper on Early Care says, right? I think it's a big breakthrough. It is a great advance, because in those early years of life, as you say, child development is characterized by the progressive acquisition of important functions. Scientific evidence shows that some of these developmental changes may be of great importance, and if care for minors is done at an early age, they are avoidable, and can also be totally or partially corrected. The negative consequences of most of these changes can be mitigated by an appropriate approach, and even in these situations of greater impact, with professional and specialized support, such as that provided by the deputies (both by the three deputies in the field of social and educational services, in the field of education, and by the health services in the field of health), is favouring the reduction of the associated imbalances and an improvement of child welfare, and also positively increases the degree of autonomy. And the Basque Government is indeed assuming its competence in the area of early care through the relevant departments, as I have said and listed with the various programmes. Over and above the competences that the service portfolio has defined at the state level, new higher projects have been implemented since Euskadi, which improve this early detection of children. In addition, from the Department of Employment and Social Policy we have developed and adopted Decree 152/2017 of May, approving the updating of the instrument for the assessment of the severity and situations of risk and helplessness of municipal and territorial social services in the care and protection of children, such as the Balora model. While not directly related to early care, we believe that it can be tangentially used to support social services in the provision of such services. In addition, it is up to the early care teams (the EVATs) to draw up personalized care plans, follow-up and duration. That's where you define the needs of each of the children, what each of the systems has to contribute, and how to interact with that child to improve the conditions in which he is in. This plan reflects this commitment to inter-departmental action with the actions planned in each of the areas, and for this we already have the participation of parents. In this joint work plan, the participation of parents is essential. The Interinstitutional Council for Early Care met on 27 October, at which the catalogue of professional qualifications, studies and competences for the accreditation of vocational qualifications for early care was unanimously approved. Obviously, we're working. I have also commented to you that a working group has been set up which is defining the funding needs of the various systems that need to work, to determine the participation of each department, both the Government and the institutions involved. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, the competence framework of the Basque Government is defined, and progress is being made in it through the coordination bodies defined in the decree. I think it is a good framework, and we do not have any plans for its amendment at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Chief, Mrs. Artola generous. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the United States of the Pogula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulus, Eureio, a member of the United States, made to the Chief of Empulgus and Polic Society, concerning the increase of the unemployed EAE. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Artolazabal, we recorded this question when we learned that 4,000 Basque families were faced in the last quarter, according to the EPA, with the drama of unemployment. A drama. I am not going to qualify it any other way, because I know that you are as concerned as any of us here, or more so, about the weight of the responsibility you have as an Employment Advisor. Today we have learned that, of those 4,000 people in absolute numbers, 1,900 people in the last month have found work in our Autonomous Community. The truth is that since you took up this responsibility, if we take the numbers this year, the unemployment is actually going down, and it seems that the goal that your Government set at the beginning of the legislature to place the unemployment rate below 10% when its government ends is going to be met. But what we are not doing, Mrs Artolazabal, is creating jobs. The absolute data tell us that the creation of stable employment, a well-paid job, in this community does not go well, does not go at the pace of other areas of Spain. And that worries us, because we can achieve the objective of putting unemployment below 10%, but that is practically going to be achieved alone. Among the young people who leave for work because they do not have a job here, and the people who retire, in three years or three years and peak we would come to be below that 10%. Precisely because I know that you are concerned about this situation, and because you will be happy today, because the data with which we have risen is a very positive data for the unemployed in this community, I want to ask you: What concrete urgent policies are they implementing, are they carrying out for the creation of new jobs, Mrs Artolazabal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u61	Thanks again. Well, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, you mention a data published by the EPA. There are different ways to measure unemployment, you know: the EPA, the PRA, the unemployment rate we have in Lanbide... The EPA is a survey of 60,000 people, so it is not the largest sample survey. Yes, it is true, and we already recognized it – I personally recognized it – that the last quarter, compared to the second, had negative data, and that, therefore, what we had to look at was the trend, and I sincerely believe that the trend is a positive trend. You have also acknowledged today in this rostrum that the unemployment data for the month of October are good data: more than 1,990 people are working today, and, compared to the month of September, which was also good unemployment data, we understand that the trend is positive. And that's what we have to guide ourselves, because saw teeth are going to be in what are the recoveries, and also with their little bumps. But neither should we conform, and this you have heard many times. I don't think we have to lower our guard, even if the trend is positive: recruitment data is improving, social security affiliation data is improving, long-term unemployment data, despite the issues that may arise in the press or studies that are being done, with the objective data we have in Lanbide, are improving. There are many things we have to work on, and this Government is restless and sensitised to do so. For that, what are we doing? We are making investments in employment to promote employment, and we prioritize what are actions that favour the recruitment of these groups: local employment plans, with more than 10 million; bonuses for businesses, with more than 100 million; various recruitment programmes for young people, which is also one of the issues (unemployment in the youth sector is functioning in an appropriate way...); financing for insertion companies is also a matter of concern to us, and we are very concerned, because we have to give opportunities to all groups and to all people regardless of their status... I therefore believe that the main objective of all training programmes will be to improve them. This is reflected in the data and unemployment rates in Euskadi. The current rate, today, is 12.3%, two tenths less than that of September, and I sincerely believe that we have a lot to do, but that the trend is positive and we will all have to try to fine-tune employment policies so that we can achieve that goal, both in quantity and in quality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u63	Yes, Madam Counsellor, indeed, among all. You said it. And we reach out to him, as we have on other occasions, because I believe that it is not just the work of the Government that we can all work together. And, in fact, we have. You have focused a lot on unemployment, and I want to focus on creating new jobs. The data is not good, Mrs. Artolazabal. There are two ways to create new jobs: self-employment, and we are behind all the autonomous communities in the rate of entrepreneurship, then it is not a good way or it does not seem to be the one that works most in this community; or the workers on behalf of others. New employment contracts require two parties, employers and employees. Mrs Artolazabal, yesterday the employers told us that with the tax reform that you have proposed you will destroy jobs and not create new jobs. If you want us all to be able to put in place policies that work for job creation, we are reaching out to you. Go back, change those fiscal policies, and we will be able to create new, well-paid and stable jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u65	We, like you and the whole of this House, do want the employability of people who are unemployed to grow. Of course, we are putting policies on the table, both in the field of training and in the field of guidance, to improve this employability. The tax policy that has been agreed on we understand that it is a policy that will at least try to help businesses, and not create problems that prevent this increase in employability and generate more jobs. Frankly, I think we would be irresponsible if we put on the table policies that come to destroy employment, and of course I believe that we are a serious government, that the parties that have reached that agreement are, too, and I hope that the results will be positive to generate employment. I sincerely stand by the fact that the positive trend in Euskadi makes us optimistic, that we cannot fall into complacency, that we have many tools in our hand to achieve the goal, and that everyone's support will be fundamental to achieving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "My name is Llanos Gómez Euspula team members of the Society of Empulcan and National Society, about the birth of special employment centers." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is that there are issues that seem to get stuck, and it might seem that because their difficulty is extreme, and that difficulty prevents their resolution. And there are probably issues of these, but we cannot understand that the creation of a register of special employment centres is one of these issues. And it is that the creation of this register is also not baladí, because, in addition to being able to give virtuality to these special employment centres, also in order to be able to access the own aids that the Board of Directors of Lanbide, for example, called by resolution for this year 2017, it is necessary to be registered in that register. But also, as I said, in order to be able to operate, to be able to compete, it is necessary to be registered. In the last legislature we discussed several times the creation of the register of special employment centres. An initiative is also pending in this legislature. On questions from our group, you replied that the registration of special employment centres must necessarily be linked to the development of a comprehensive framework in which you are working and which involves regulatory development. That is why I ask you, Madam Counsellor, when this legal framework will come and when it will be possible to have such a register of special employment centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u68	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u69	As you rightly say, Mrs Llanos, this is not the first time we have dealt with the issue of special employment centres in this House, and above all with regard to registration. This is an issue on which we are working closely with entities representing all the special employment centres in EHLABE and Berezilan, and the commitment of this department to the employment of persons with disabilities is evident, both in terms of maintaining existing jobs and in promoting the creation of employment opportunities for these people. And that collaboration is indisputable, and it is evident in the lines of work that we are working on and that we continue to move forward. From our point of view, the registration of special employment centres must necessarily be linked to the development of a legal framework – as I answered in the written question – that involves a regulatory development that collects and structures all the specific policies supporting the employment of persons with disabilities. Not only what registration is, but all policies related to the field of employment and disability. And this comprehensive legal framework will serve to be the umbrella for the registration of employment centres and also to develop such active employment policies for persons with disabilities. We believe that this framework is broader, that it will improve, that we should not just stick to the decree to regulate registration, and that it will give a better response to the collective. And based on these principles and criteria we hope to have at the beginning of 2018 a draft decree agreed and with the support of the collectives with which we are working, in order to be able to start the processing of the decree, which we all want to be approved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u71	Thank you again, Madam President. Counselor, I often say here that we seem to live on the day of the marmot, but it is true. On this topic specifically, this is like the day of the marmot, because the same answer you have given today... Today you have given a date (to see if it is possible), but the same answer was given by Mr Toña when he was questioned by Mr Itxaso in the previous parliamentary term. But that answer was also given five months ago to the representative of EH Bildu when she asked him in writing. And maybe five months is true that there are not many to develop those active policies that you say are necessary, but it is that since 2010 you have had the competence, and there is a draft decree since 2014. And you say you're going to see the light in early 2018. Hey, four years, four years, to be... You boast on many occasions that we are the champions of effectiveness: other autonomous communities have it a long time ago. I was telling you yesterday, it's one thing to demand competition, and it's another thing to exercise that competition well. Because I am already telling you that in order to create this global framework, you have had it since active employment policies were transferred, and you have not. And to make the registration they have a draft registration of special employment centers since 2014, we are at the end of 2017, and now we are told that by the beginning of 2018 that registration may see the light. I am glad that this development of active policies to promote the employment of persons with disabilities sees the light, and I am glad that this record sees the light, to see if it is true that it sees the light at the beginning of 2018. But I tell you on many occasions: it is more important than claiming competence to be able to exercise that competence; it is more important than having competence to have competent managers. And it is clear that in relation to this matter you neither exercise competence well nor are competent managers, because, while other autonomous communities have long developed these policies and have long had the registration of special employment centres, today there are special employment centres in Basquedi which cannot access competitions, which cannot access public aid, because that registration does not exist. And that's your responsibility. Let us hope that by the beginning of 2018 they will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u72	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u73	I, Mrs. Llanos, have been a counselor for ten months, I think, more or less. I know and know that this issue has been discussed arduously in this Parliament, and it is also clear to me that there have been many difficulties in getting it within the time frame that my colleagues wanted, and for whatever reasons we were unable to achieve it. I believe that we are competent managers, I believe that we exercise competences in an appropriate way, and if not, we will see the results of many sectors and many subjects. Moreover, it should be emphasized that we too have a good position in the field of employment for persons with disabilities, despite being the last community in the State to receive the transfer of active policies. I believe that if you see the unemployment rates of people with disabilities in Euskadi, they are around 15%, and the rates in the state can exceed 40%. So bad we won't be, and so bad we won't do things. But, having said all this, I think we have to move forward, and that is also what I have been entrusted with and what we are working on in an important and intense way. And we are also doing so, Mrs Llanos, with the entities working in this area in the field of employment for persons with disabilities, because our aim is to be more ambitious than just to generate a decree to register companies or special employment centres. I believe that through these initiatives we are going to regulate a decree which aims to consolidate an aid programme aimed at these ordinary companies in order to encourage the recruitment of persons with disabilities. Really, Mrs. Llanos, sometimes it costs. I'd like to do things faster, but, well, I'd rather do things a little later, and do them right, than not fast and wrong. It's true that we've been here a long time, but it's true that I've been at the head of this department for ten months. I have announced that by early 2018 I hope to have that draft with the greatest consensus, and if it can be unanimous, with the aim of working for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u74	Thank you, chief physician. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Ramone Becerlo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made for the local Plantion, and the chief department of the Housing House, about the opposite composition of land, as well as that of the grass of the township of St. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u75	Egun where you're going. Good morning, counselor. In February 2016, in the works of the Mercadona shopping center of Donostia, the construction company, without any permission, extracts 23,000 cubic meters of contaminated land and deposits them in a natural place called Belartza, also in the municipality of San Sebastián, near the Unanue rural park. This is the picture of the space where the 23,000 cubic meters of contaminated land are poured, the equivalent of five football fields, with a height of five meters. This is also done in an area of Community interest, in a habitat of Community interest, which at first is the case and then remains the case. [[Shows some photos]] As I say, the construction company fails to comply with all the rules on waste management, discharges, fillings, also fails to comply with the San Sebastián City Council... And my question is what are you going to do, that you are going to do your department, to restore legality, to enforce the law, to punish those responsible for all this, and to get this natural space back to the way it was before this illegality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u76	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, as you surely know, the competence to authorize the filling of land and rocks of a certain volume and origin belongs to the municipality concerned, and in some cases, as is the case with us, requires a municipal license, with mandatory and binding reports from the Basque Water Agency URA and the Natural Heritage Directorate, Environment. Within this procedure, on 9 March 2016, this body issued a favourable report, conditional on the fulfilment of several measures aimed at limiting the condition to the natural environment, fauna and watercourses. Subsequently, on 27 May, the company carrying out the urbanization works in the area reported the detection of a suspected point of contamination where the Belartza quarry was located, in a filling area with indications of potentially contaminated, and requested authorization for the removal of these materials. The works were paralyzed, contaminated soils were analyzed, and the planned excavation was authorized. In parallel, the Directorate of Natural Heritage intervened in the same month of May as a result of a writing by an environmental organization, which denounced allegedly irregular actions in the filling, and also responded to a writing by Ararteko in July of that year. URA also, at the request of the same organization, urged the company to withdraw a ford and an access track that it had made without permission on a river bank, which was committed. Finally, on 13 October 2016, it checked the correct management of the excavated materials, the entire file was terminated, without considering it necessary to take further measures. Of course, our department is fully cooperating with the Donostia-San Sebastián Court of Instruction No. 4, in the investigation it has opened, and so it did on November 3 and 30, in response to the information on the matter requested by the court. The last thing we know is a denunciation written by the ecological associations Haritzalde Natur Taldea and Ekologistak Martxan, last July. After analyzing its contents from the department, the complaint has been transferred to the City of Donostia-San Sebastián, as well as to Osalan and the Labour Department, thus communicating it to the complainant associations. This is what I can comment on today on this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u79	Counselor, by the time you went to the Mercadona shopping mall you no longer found the land, because you had taken it away. You have lost 23,000 cubic metres of contaminated land for months. And you made a report of what was left, what was left in the yard, and you told the builder three things: one, that those lands were not clean; two, that those lands had to go to an authorized landfill, and, three, that it was forbidden to reuse those lands in the works of Mercadona. Well, not only did the construction company ignore them, but it kept the 23,000 cubic meters of contaminated land in that other location, but they also continued to use the land in the Mercadona works. Look, the color I've taught you before, these same lands are here. Here is the mall: they have continued to use them in the mall, without paying attention to their requirement. But they have also spread them on Gipuzkoa. Look, in Astigarraga, under the highway, not only have they thrown the land, but they have also put up a sign that says: "Material Mercadona", such as. And it is that today this construction company has no fear of anything happening to it, no fear of breaching the law. They don't have it, and they don't have it, the Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián, which didn't even stop the works and that moreover, when it learned of all the illegality of the 23,000 cubic meters, it gave the company the authorization to fill, in twenty-four hours, the construction company. My question is, who are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the construction company?, are you afraid that it is called Valeriano Urrutikoetxea the construction company? Or are you afraid of the City Hall of San Sebastian? Are you afraid of Mr. Gasco, who is responsible for all this incongruity? I ask you: If you were one of the families in that neighborhood, and suddenly put in a natural space some land for a size equivalent to five football fields, and they destroy all the natural space, how would you feel? What kind of defencelessness and impotence did you feel? I'll tell you one thing. This matter, as you have said, is in the Prosecutor's Office, is in the Prosecutor's Office for ecological offences, and is being investigated. The construction company is being investigated, the City Hall of San Sebastián is being investigated, and today the Vice-Council of the Environment, or the department, has not done what it had to do. Will you assume responsibility if the prosecution determines that there is actually an ecological crime here? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u81	Mr Becerra, the site to which you refer was not inventoried as potentially contaminated soil, so the department learns or has records to the extent that there are indications presented by the company. Of course, you can't know that before. There are value judgments in the complaint documents that have been submitted to us, but nothing is believed either. From the analyses carried out at the site, what is apparent is that excavation lands are not dangerous; therefore, claims such as "serious risk", etc., are very questionable. What we know about these soils is that the excavated material was dumped in landfills of inert waste and non-hazardous waste. Some specific issues were also identified, which were managed as hazardous waste (pneumatics, pipes, drums, etc.). And, of course, any situation that could have been detected by the department, as you can imagine, would have been met. I am not afraid of anyone, of anyone, of any company or of any politician, nor am I afraid of you. You know how our department works, because you know it perfectly well. The department – and you have the entire file at your disposal – has done its part in this matter according to its competences and the regulations on waste management and environmental protection. And the irregularities you say do not come out of the right way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About Jule Bollain Urbieta, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Ogas and Economics, about the plans of the chief physician of tax and economics." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u83	Good morning, everyone. Good morning Chief, Congressman, Mr. Subjugater. It's hard to ask about plans already, but we'll ask you about your opinion today. We have heard you repeatedly, Mr Azpiazu, talk about the need to update our tax system, because, in your own words, tax pressure is no greater than in the rest of the Spanish state and it is less than in Europe, so one might think that there is a way to do something. However, the adalid of tax rebates to large companies, the deputy general of Bizkaia, has said at all times that the tax reform that you asked for was not going to be merely fiscal adjustments. Mr. Azpiazu, is this the tax reform you were referring to? Are you happy with the simple cosmetic adjustment presented yesterday on the general joints? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u85	Good morning, Mr. President, members of the legislature, chiefs. Bollain jauna, as you know and have just said, the outlaws have presented their rules on tax measures. Last October 6th in my reply to the full control I told him that the Basque Government had provided a series of measures aimed at avoiding tax evasion and evasion, aligning us with the rest of Europe's modern tax systems. Guk zerga-saihestea age zerga-ihesa ekiditeko neuroriak eskaintzen ditugu Europako henerako zerga-system modernekin bat eginez. After the negotiations between the political parties, the anti-circumvention measures that have finally been agreed have already been worked on at European level as well. For example, the revision of the articles on the elimination of double taxation, further amendments to the patent box regime, and other measures such as the limitation of the compensation of negative tax bases. In addition, the application of deductions and the exemption for reinvestment is limited only to assets with an economic activity-related purpose. The company tax that has been presented aims to ensure balance to encourage economic activity and generate quality employment and ensure collection to cover public policies. In fact, it seeks to adapt, even before compulsory time (2024), to the new EU directive on anti-circumvention. As I said, in addition to increasing collection, it is also essential to encourage economic activity. Measures have been agreed to align the job creation deduction with the quality of employment and salary, the revision of the investment deduction requirements for new fixed tangible assets, or the inclusion of the necessary regulation for the creation of funds to encourage innovation. All of them have been agreed between various institutions and parties, and represent a compendium of possible and real measures. Neurori possible age errealak.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u87	Mr Azpiazu, once again you leave me perplexed and do not answer me. I asked if you're happy or not. "Azpiazu defends a structural, consensual and calm tax reform." This is literally what you were saying before the Bizkaia Confederation of Entrepreneurs assembly a few months ago: that you were advocating for a fundamental, structural tax reform, since you can't do every two by three, and designed with tranquility, calm and maximum consensus, in words of yourself. Can you really defend, Mr Azpiazu, this evil so-called tax reform, on November 3, 2017? Is it really this gross makeup, these adjustments that Mr Rementeria has so much pursued, which you defended as a fundamental and structural tax reform? Do you really believe that this tax reform has been consensual with some opposition group? Do you really think it is welcome that the press knows its details before the opposition groups? At times, Mr Azpiazu, he knew more about the press than even his government's mullet party, the PSE. You said, Mr Azpiazu, that you appealed to the collective responsibility of all: "You will have to pass the beret to have financial sufficiency." From what I understood then, Mr Azpiazu, "passing the beret" was synonymous with an in-depth tax reform; a tax reform like the one we presented last Monday from our parliamentary group. As we made clear then, if you want to get our institutions to have the opportunity to collect more, to guarantee better public services, and to do so in a way that the Basque economy, which really moves employment (SMEs, self-employed people and cooperatives), has more facilities for its activity. Even citizenship, the vast majority of people, would see more facilities to reach the end of the month or lead a dignified life, to reactivate consumption or simply to pay what they should pay in justice in taxes, and not as it happens now, which pay what others allow them to avoid. At the end of the day, Mr Azpiazu, we propose Monday to give a solution to situations that have long been overtaken, but that is not why we can naturalise. Since we cannot naturalize that there are still gaps in our tax system that allow big fortunes or big companies to evade their obligations. We were talking in this Parliament two weeks ago about captains and sailors. Mr. Azpiazu, I sincerely believed that it was you who was running the boat when you made these statements before summer. And I really tell you that our parliamentary group was committed to dialogue in order to achieve progressive tax reform. But with much regret, and above all with regret for the great social majority that continues with the fiscal rope around his neck, I have to tell him that he has been robbed of the rudder, and that passing the beret has been left in simple parochial brush.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u89	Mr Bollain, I am aware of the great differences between your tax proposal and ours. I have told you that the possible and real measures have been achieved, and there are two concepts that should never be forgotten in politics, which are feasibility and realism. Bidegarrites are an age of erraticism. He likes marine metaphors. I sincerely want to say that it is not a question of hierarchies; I believe it is a question of having clear direction, following its metaphor, the direction towards which we are heading the boat. We have just presented a draft budget in which eight out of every ten euros go to social spending, a project in which the pace of investment is recovered and committed to economic development. The smooth running of the economy will allow businesses to increase wages and reinvest in Euskadi, and that brings, Mr Bollain, a virtuous circle that positively affects us all, institutions and people. A month ago I told him that Euskadi must remain a serious country. I reiterate that we need certainty and legal certainty. Euskadik diurtasun eta segurtasun juridikoa behar du. This Government has very clear economic needs to fulfil our commitments to citizenship and our corporate fabric, always from the point of view of viability and realism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u90	Thank you, chief physician. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe de Matuna EHGGrean members made for the head of the Board of Education, about the quality of the Museum menu." Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u91	Hello, good morning. Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. For the last two weeks we've seen in the papers that in the dining room of a college there's been a problem of quality, which is very disturbing. But that's not the only problem and not the only school, we know that too. A quality problem has come up and this time at least it's public, but we won't stay there. Family has been accusing us of the type in the school dining room today for many years. "Mercy has a responsibility and today we want to hear a direct answer and a real commitment. As we say, on the front pages of the newspapers we have encountered a point problem in a school, and I say point problem because most of these cases do not come to light. But family fatigue makes the situation unsustainable and eventually denounces it. It seems that from the government they have already seen the problem, and the measures go through a strategic plan for healthy food, a plan with a target of a thousand days (and I say well, a thousand days, two and a half years), that costs, or at the moment costs, 200,000 euros, and that we trust does not remain in a mere declaration of intentions. Let us hope that it does not aim to silence voices that question a model more than questioned in the management of the dining rooms. A priori the plan is necessary, and good as prevention. But, as we have no doubt about their effectiveness, we have already asked for the presence of the three departments involved, to specify what measures they will take and how they will impact on people's day-to-day lives: on the people they produce, on the people they transform and on the people they consume. This is the great doubt. A priority point of this plan is the school dining rooms, whose title is "Posta a dia 360o de comedores". If it is true that it will be a 360 degree change, Euskal Herria Bildu will be at your disposal to work. I end with the very specific question: What guarantee does the Department of Education have so that the menus in the dining rooms of the educational establishments are of quality and healthy? What guarantees do companies give them to comply with the established requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u92	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u93	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Ms. Lopez de Rockye, the Board of Education is deeply engaged with the school food service. In this engagement he takes two basic premises: On the one hand, to pay attention to our children, with security and health guarantees, and, on the other, to consider the premises about the quality of neutration. In this respect, all our efforts have that end. That's why we're working in front of the situation made by the Muses to study what's happened. After all the events which had been remarked in that course, the school itself informed the company's supplier, as protocol demands. This company made a fixed investigation, and fixed the necessary measures. The company reported these precautions to the school and to the department. In the same way the department put these measures into the hands of the experts of professional professionals, who help the department itself in these cases, and the experts admitted them. On the part of the supplier company, all the processing of the menu – alluded to the case – was verified, from the reception to the packaging, the goods received, the traceability and the typology. It was verified whether there were any incidences in other centers (5,561 rations were served), concluding that this was a single incidence, and that, had it originated in the menu, it is most likely to be within some piece of vegetable. The suppliers of packaged vegetables have quality control systems and disposal of foreign elements during washing, cutting and processing of vegetables. As a result of this analysis, the raw material supplier was informed of it, and as a corrective and preventive measure intensified monitoring controls throughout production. We must remark that in a day more than 900,000 menus are served in our public schools, and no remarkable circumstances occur. For we think that we ought to present the reality of this service which is offered to many students, and we must show that quality service is offered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u94	Thank you, chief of department, Mrs. Wheels. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u95	Yes, good morning again. He says that his department is committed to quality – I don't have to question it, I understand it must be so – that there has been a protocol and a verification – I understand it must be so too – and that it is a single incidence. Well, we certainly don't question what subsequent controls there have been, and, well, that's clear. Of course, what we saw in the newspapers was what it is, and, as I said, it is not a point. We know what's going on. From EH Bildu we ask very concrete things, because not only are we going to talk about what happened at Muskiz school, we have on the table more examples that have not come to light. We ask from Euskal Herria Bildu very concrete things: strict control of the companies, not only in the quality of the food, but in the conditions. Nor only in the working conditions they offer: absolute transparency in companies. We also ask for freedom so that we can choose the dining model in each school: the Administration cannot and should not – I say well, force – choose a management model, a management model that is now called direct. We also ask that all boys and girls eat a quality, healthy, ecological and local food every day, and that, of course, jantoki is a more educational place in school. And as I said before: Two, the dining room is one of the most important parts of education and we must take advantage of the opportunity. Let families choose the dining model they want in schools. It is the best way not only to guarantee quality, but also to educate people with responsibility in their health and environment. The right to decide also on the food food in the dining rooms, which is why today our plate is our chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u96	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u97	Mme. Lopez de Rocky, in the established protocol, and in any case in the opposition to the catering-pres, several conditions and duties are established. Companions will have to comply with the contract. The nutritional quality of all menu proposals is analyzed by suitably qualified staff, following the approach offered by the Strategy for Nutrition, Physical Activity and Obesity Prevention (NAOS) in order to promote healthy eating. It's very troubling that you've been complaining about the quality of the menus. In fact, the menus are cultivated and sent to the department. This, for instance, through the hired technical help, scrutinizes the plates every day. That is to say, a severe examination is made, because they must fill up the policy of repudiation specified in menu contracts. This menu will have hygiene, health and neutration levels to adapt to the needs of the age group applied. In addition, the department has a health and hygiene training plan. This plan has a double aspect within the department's direct management of school canteens management model: an improvement in the professional qualification of the staff involved in this area of work, and, on the other hand, to comply with the generic plan of self-control of the analysis of hazards and critical points of control, which are systems of self-control health of compulsory compliance in our school canteens. To conclude, there are two things to be said. The Board of Education is of the greatest interest that our eating rooms may have all hygiene and health security guarantees and menus that offer them to be of a quality of neutration. And so it is because we are speaking of the health of our disciples, and therefore cannot be reduced to them. Let's not confuse different things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask you, Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team Members of the Union for Cultura and the Chief of Policy Language, in order to guarantee the right to learn the rest of the people's existence besides the edge of the edge." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u99	Thank you. Mr. Zupiria, what has come to us by means of means of communication, we do not know whether it is so or not, but if that is so, applauding, Mr. Zupiria, and congratulations to you. If so, you've changed your criteria, which you've maintained, to learn to support us so far, and we're glad. Undoubtedly the perfect condition of stepping forward. But don't you think it's awful to make differences between people? Why the borderers can learn without any financial contributions, and not the members of Osapart and Justice? According to what we know, everyone can learn freely even now, even Osacidents, Justice, and Borders. So, it's been a simple publicity thing that's been in the media, or the government hasn't done it, and the officials I've just mentioned make their first contribution and then they come back. I don't know if you can explain this to us. However, as to what has been foretold, the quantum step, if this is the case. Let's see if we can get the edge to resist. But because our society is not only composed of borderers, and if we were to resist its edge, because society would not resist, Mr. Zupuria, when will it be granted that the right of learning to all the citizens is supported by the same means and the same rights?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u101	Good morning, Mr. President, Congressman, chief of staff, Mrs. Ubera. I think it's the duty of the Basques and the popular authorities to offer to all the citizens who don't know how to improve the level of eucalyptus, and to provide the most suitable terms and assistance for all of us all. And that's what we're talking about. As far as the edge is concerned, we can't forget that the borderers, not only as citizens, have all the rights they have as citizens, but are the workers of the Basque Administration, and in that sense we believe that the Euskalion is forced to take special measures which will encourage the euphorion of the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u103	Mr. Zupiria, you didn't answer me. And besides, it is your duty to make friends with the people, and to give them the means, as well as the edgelings, because they are citizens, to provide for them. And in this sense we congratulate you and applaud the initiative you've put in motion, but we can't make a distinction between the people, and it seems to us that this step ought to be extended to the rest of the people, either to be a civil officer or not to be a civil officer. And you know in this, that we have a right to dispute in this legislation, and that this legislation ought to be the end of it to establish a liberty of learning. You know, we've already had a discussion about the criteria of the "EH Collectation" in this house. There are differences, there are disagreements, but just the one that just showed up in the media with the edgepers is in the line of criteria that the EH Collector encourages and you've made a change of criteria. Very well, welcome, but please answer me. When will the rest of the people extend the same chances and the same rights to the rest of the people, as is done with those who are bordering on them? Or was it just a little publicity show in the media? I'd appreciate this second round, please clear up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u105	President andrea. Ms. Ubera, I think your question is concerned with the edgelines, and then I really appreciate you telling me about the agreement we signed by the Cultural Department on this 2017 and 2018 years ago in this year, to guide me out of the working hours of the border-engineers' work to the outside of Eucasures, the Security Department and the Cultural Department here. This agreement has been published today at the Basque Country Authority magazine. From the beginning of the edge, the conveniences of one or the other have always been the means of learning to keep it. And in between, for instance, the first students at the Z Zonoment Bar were bordering in the '80s. Ever since then there have been special help and I think they must be needed again and we should make them full. As with the Department of Interior, HABE has special contracts with IVAPs, with Osax, with the Department of Justice, with Iranle, EJIE, and Profession. And everyone has the same purpose. The object of the agreement signed by the Security Department and by the Cultural Department is, therefore, to continue the friendships which have been in all these years for the euphoration of the Borders, to learn beyond the hour of labour, and to improve the degree of knowledge of their cradles. This statement has been an initiative in signing and signing the Security Department, and this agreement has been made by the Security Department into HABE's hands, which, unlike so far as it was before, was done in a manner or otherwise. From now on, HABE will have a role in organising and sustaining the course of the course, as well as in doing the continuation of the students. In fact, even in the borderers, we see the necessary means of continuing performance, evaluation. Therefore, these subserviations of money, which the edge-keepers will receive from the outside of the city, must perform certain conditions. And these are related to endurance and performance. And HABE will take care of following these duties. So we would like to proceed by giving a consistency to the whole system. I believe that the Department of the Interior takes a new step in the process of normalization in Decree in '98, and also in the course of the push by the Decrea of 2012. And it's fun to keep on making progress when you're on the edge. November 24th, the state of security department will have a fair chance to know how and how to fulfill Euscara's Use Normalization Plan. And, as I told you, next week at the budget, we'll have a lot more chance of talking about the steps we're making on the way to freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors have made to Cultura and the Chief of Policy Language, between ETB1 and ETB2 about the unequal state of Katalunia." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u107	Thank you, ma'am, and good noon to all. Today, Mr. Zupiria, you have a very difficult pellet, which I think is very difficult, because we are here to inquire about the political state of Catalan about the information that is being involved between ETB1 and ETB2, and the data is present and the data is very significant. As for the context, no one can deny that the informal focus is recently in Catalonia and that what's happening in the company of the Basques is highly informative. Otherwise, in 2017, in the case of informers, the fact that ETB has lost the leadership, for the benefit of the Intattivos Telecinco, but in October, that is to say, in the last month, in addition to the return of this situation, the difference of 70,000 viewers, ETBk Telecnco, more than 700,000 viewers in October? That's really relevant. But if this has been so, it has been chiefly through ETB2, thanks to the chain of rhymes. Compared to September, he's been promoted 18%, holding an audience level that doesn't reach February 2015. ETB1 hasn't made much of a contribution in this sense, unfortunately, because the audience here hasn't been able to get any of the last-minute information as ETB1 subferent, and it's normal. For instance, it must be acknowledged that on October 1st, the ETV referendum was properly followed. But at ETB1, the rest stopped in the primrose time, to log out on boat on Bat, to remission almost at midnight. And this takes effect at the moment, but it also affects the middle term when it comes to the perception of the chain. On October 4th and ETV printed in this way: "Cambio en la programción de ETB2 para derbera a Cataluña." That didn't happen in ETB1. It didn't happen. On October 10, it's true that the reaction is due to so many criticisms. It was Puigdemont's statement that day, and ETB1 emulating the special mouth with Catalonia and a documentary. It's late, but it's not working on hearing data. Yes, but in the ETB2 data, you can get almost a 10% share higher than the average. The reflection of the bet from the beginning, these results. On the 26th of October, ETB2, a special attempt on Catalonia, while the History of ETV1s emitiated the Una de Vasconia. On the 28th of October, the fertility of the state of ETB2 in Catalonia, the concert of ETV1's Delighting. Other facts, where it cannot be denied that informal treatment is treated as secondary to the eucalyptic. If you go into the ETB Web page's special event in the Katalunia process, we've got five sessions of support. If you enter the A la carta, the 15th Catalan process, triple. Here's a picture, in which it reflects very well what level it gives ETB2 and ETB1. I mean, the mobile unit has been in Barcelona for many days and we can see here the ETB2 plat and up on the top of the èbautobus with a Hima in humia ETB1. Some of our comrades were there and wet and everything was done on the set in ETB1. So what's made clear is that we're going to see only La Sx's data in society, because it's over 25% of quotas. We're asking you, please, to take our own self-critication and make a better radio researcher among all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u109	President andrea. Mr. Estarrona, the question you passed in writing this essay to the legislature, I transferred it to the direction of EIB, which belongs to them, and not to me to fix and carry on the informationary criteria of EITB. On the other hand, I was informed that at EIB's October Administration Council, at the 23rd of October 2017, the principal director reported the information about the state of Catalan, about EITB and the radio and the Internet, both news and performance programs, the eucaly and youth. As I have said, it is not to me to fix these opinions, nor to inform them. The criteria have been explained in the EIB Administration Council, and you may also request them in the Parliament of EIB's successor. If you wish to know my opinion of the work that is happening in the Catalonia, I shall repeat what I have said two weeks ago in answer to another question. I think it's EIB's role to tell you honestly and to do this work by considering all the views that are in our country, all the sensibilities, all the views that are in it. I think it's obvious that EITB is doing a great deal of effort on all its support, in different sorts of programmes, and in the two languages of Katalunia to enable its audiences, listeners, and followers to arrive at it. And I also believe that the audiences who have every kind of visual support on the EIB have given him credit for television, radio and Internet effort, support, and language. He is curious, and I believe EIB has taken measures to answer this curiosity as well as youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the deputy of the Popula team, was addressed to the head of the Security Department as a petition for the Archaut Administration Council." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Okay, let's talk about the road, let's talk about an administrative board, Arkaute, an urban core, a dangerous stretch... There are serious problems; they are identified by the road safety officials of the Administrative Board at N-104 as they pass through Arkaute, for pedestrians, for cyclists and for drivers themselves in connection with maneuvers being executed. On 16 February 2015 (of course from the reading it could be thought that on 16 February, but of 2015) the Arkaute Administrative Board registered a letter to the Basque Government in which it made a series of requests concerning safety measures on the public road, specifically on the road of the network of preferential interest N-104. And why? Because it is a road in urban core, with a lot of traffic, with houses next to the road, close to a transited access of the park of Salburua, with a lot of traffic, intensity of traffic especially in hours that are coincident with those of use of public transport, and with public transport stop, with areas where there are residences of the elderly near, that is with traffic, with parking lots, with crosses of the road by the pedestrians, that sometimes, especially in winter, has difficulties in the conditions of visibility, when it rains... That is, that the Arkaute Administrative Board raised a number of issues, identifying problems, and a number of requests related to the semphoric regulation, or the installation of a fixed radar in the face of repeated non-compliance with the vertical marking of the area. It is recognized that the work of Roads or the deputy, or of those who have the competence of the administrative board to point out the sections, is there, the vertical signage, but what happens is that it is not done. It is done repeatedly, notoriously, by many drivers, also taking into account that it is an urban area, with pedestrian traffic and with public transport and stop, as I said before. In that regard, what we would like to ask you is what action the Department of Safety and Security will take in response to the request made by the Arkaute Board regarding security measures. We understand that it is a point of order, but it is something to which you must give an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u113	Thank you, ma'am. It is understandable, Mr Barrio, that Arkaute's neighbours and neighbours worry about safety and act with caution in that area when crossing the road. Well, even though there are signs, it's true, there are no zebra steps or traffic light controls, because it's a national. And if people are worried the normal thing is that the board also moves this concern and tries to find solutions. But, as you well know, and you have said here, we are talking about a peri-urban area, which in recent years has had various actions that have affected traffic in the area, to the extreme, for example, of nullifying access to the national 104, access to the A-132 (i.e. the road coming from Estella), reducing traffic in that area in a considerable way as well. Actions that have also affected both vertical and horizontal signage in the area of Elorriaga and Arkaute. That is why, as you said, the writing that gave rise to this question is a writing from 2015, a writing that has also given rise to a motion that the People's Party has tabled at general meetings. It is therefore a letter which precedes the proceedings which have been carried out most recently, and subsequent to the measures of signification which were adopted at the time by the Chamber. Measures adopted by the Diputación as the holder of the track, as the holder and as competent on the track, in response to that written to the Diputación itself by the Arkaute Administrative Board in November 2014. What I can assure you is that neither then nor now this department, and specifically from the Directorate of Traffic, will ever cease to analyse proposals that could come from the Chamber itself or from the administrative board, but proposals that will logically have to be put on the table in those technical committees evaluating issues that are specific and specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u114	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u115	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for the answer. I have no doubt that the department is interested in this subject, but, of course, the administrative board requested that the Directorate of Traffic of the Basque Government's Department of Security, and within the competences assigned to it in the field of traffic, "make a corresponding study in order to take the measures it considers most appropriate", etc. And he also said that "we propose that in the technical study to be carried out the following actions be taken into account: semi-phoric control installation with stop button, project and placement; fixed radar installation, since it is one of the most important access routes to the town of Vitoria-Gasteiz and with the highest intensity of vehicles", as we all know. What has the department responded to the Arkaute Administrative Board during this time? I ask you, in any case, that as far as possible, as far as possible, pay attention to the demands of the Arkaute Administrative Board, in relation to the study, and especially in relation to the concrete measures that your department may suggest (not to carry them out, but it may suggest), studied with the Administration, with the Foral Chamber of Álava, with the administrative board itself... I think that's gonna be good, that negotiation and response link. In other words, there have been cases of danger that have been analyzed: there are also animals crossing the road, it is near Salburua... I mean, I think that point needs special care. I ask you, and I ask you to pay special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u117	Indeed, you have said this, I agree with what you have proposed: it is up to the City of Gasteiz and the Department of Road Infrastructure and Mobility of the Parliament to evaluate the measures that were adopted in your day, and to analyse whether there is a need for further measures. And that this analysis is transferred to the Directorate of Traffic in the meetings that are regularly held between the Directorate of Traffic and the outlaws, and in particular the Foral Diputación de Álava. For our part, I assure you that, as we have always done, we will analyse these proposals, the proposals that the Parliament is transferring; we will analyse, evaluate the measures, and logically, in the part that we can have, and that they are considered appropriate, will be moved and these measures will be implemented. It is certainly an area, indeed, like all roads, in which we seek road safety. Therefore, these regular meetings that are held with the Members of Parliament, which are technical, are precisely for this reason: to assess the measures to be taken, to assess the specific problem that exists. Therefore, these meetings are where these problems need to be brought to. At that meeting, we will discuss what the Parliament is willing to move, after that assessment and proposal for measures. There's no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpation, Joseph Ramone Becerr, Carollo, member of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, about closing up the factory in Ortuella."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u119	Good morning, Counselor. I'm going to ask you today about the General Electric company, but the story I'm going to tell you could be that of any company in this country, that of many companies that are suffering, sooner or later, a process of relocation. We have in General Electric a company with profits until recently, a company that maintains and even increases sales until the same year; a company with stable and competitive wage costs; a company with expansion plans, to the point of opening a new plant in April 2015. And all of a sudden, from night to morning, we have a company that will close in a few months. The word is relocation, the reason is relocation. This is a manual relocation. Alstom and General Electric are competing companies. General Electric buys Alstom (in the capitalist economy, the big fish eats the boy). General Electric stays with the business and the customers. General Electric closes Alstom's plants, and General Electric transfers production to cheaper countries such as China and India. The question is, what can we do about it? And who wins and who loses. The losers are up there. We had a modern company, a competitive company, a company not only viable but profitable, and today, or tomorrow, we will have nothing. Of course, in order for the plant to close, there has to be an ERE, an ERE of extinction. An ERE of extinction motivated by economic, productive and organizational reasons. When I asked you what we can do, the object of my inquiry is that, what we can do, what you can do, what this whole society can do to prevent this. In order to close the plant, as I say, there must be economic, productive and organizational reasons. The company organizes (when I say the company, the multinational)... , organize this in a way that justifies that closure. What does the company do in the first place? Decrease factory orders. Euskadi's far-off decisions are made, specifically on Grenoble's sales team, and Grenoble's sales team decides that projects already scheduled and with a workload in the company will be taken to other plants. On the one hand it sends that workload to plants in China, Brazil and Poland. On the other hand, it does not offer in projects where the Bilbao plant was competitive. Don't offer them, don't give them to them. On the other hand, it even subcontracts the workload to the competition, so as not to manufacture at the Ortuella plant. That way they justify that there is no work. As there is no work, wage costs are increased. What they do is that the hourly rate, that is, the labor cost of the factory, which had remained stable from 2010 to 2016, with a rise of just 1% annually... In 2017, labour costs rose by 56%. Why? Is there more staff? No, no, Do they cover more? No, no, What they do is set an hourly rate based on the factory's workload: as they have so far considered a workload of 120,000 hours per year and have removed all orders from them, from now on they are considered 60,000 hours per year. As a result, the hourly rate is doubled, the labour costs of the factory are doubled. This is the perfect storm: there is no work, the hourly rate increases; the hourly rate increases, we are less competitive, and we have less and less work. The company has created the hole through which the Ortuella plant disappears. This is as far as workshop costs are concerned. In engineering costs it is even more evident: costs are increased in 2017 by 40%, without more staff (on the contrary, there is one less person in engineering), without structural changes, and taking into account that all engineering companies in the world of General Electric have unified their expenses globally. However, the engineering costs of the Ortuella plant rise by 40%, and those of the India plant by 25% less. It's just that they're going to take the job, the ones from the plant in India. What is the role of the government? The Government has a role through the Labour Inspectorate, and hence my inquiry. The workers saw this coming, and submitted a report to the Labour Inspectorate on June 24, before declaring the ERE. What did the Labour Inspectorate do? Not answering, not investigating. On the contrary, when it was leaked to the press that on July 5th there was going to be an ERE, then there was a response from the Labour Inspectorate saying "Well, if that, when the ERE comes we will already inspect, we will already investigate." But the role of the Labour Inspectorate in an ERE is key, it is fundamental, because the Labour Inspectorate report is mandatory, and, as the Supreme Court has already said on some occasions, it is a report of evidentiary value, that is, it can constitute a means of proof for anyone who, in his case, has to judge the legality of the business decision in question. Hence it is not possible to make a report from the Labour Inspectorate in any way; it must be done with care, with affection, with commitment. With commitment. Because that report cannot only make a check on the formal legality, whether there are all the papers, but material, what those papers say. And it has to control the causes that give rise to this ERE, the economic, productive and organizational causes. There are multiple examples of how a good Labour Inspectorate report pushes back an ERE. There we have CELSA Atlantic, for example, who presented two EREs and the two were shot down by the judges through reports from the Labour Inspectorate. And we have the relocation of Zardoya Otis, who was also shot down by the judges. But in addition, the ERE has a consultation phase; a consultation phase that also has a legality control. It is necessary for the company to negotiate in good faith, and the High Court of Justice of Asturias in the relocation of Tecneco said that it was not good faith to maintain an unchanging business position before the closure or the transfer of production in a case of relocation. Nor is it good faith to violate the right to strike, as has been done in more than one ERE. And, in short, the jurisprudence of the higher courts of justice says that corporate relocation is never a valid cause for collective dismissal. Here we have the High Court of Justice of Madrid, which at the time said that "delocalization is not justified from an objective point of view of labour law and social responsibility to which companies owe themselves, because there is no economic cause to support the destruction of employment when it is based only on the business convenience of obtaining greater profit and not on losses that hinder their future sustainability". I am reading the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Madrid, but there is another of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia which says: "The mere relocation cannot be protected by this precept, when it responds only to the subjective determination of the management of the group, without it having a bearing on the objective cases governing the Staff Regulations and Directive 98/59 of the European Union". In other words, corporate relocation is in no way protected by law, nor justified. And when an ERE of extinction is presented that is based on an example of a manual, such as this, regarding relocation, it is essential, fundamental, that the Labour Inspectorate do its job well, worth redundancy, and make a report of probative value that lowers this ERE of extinction. Because the only way out left for this company, which is left for this company committee, which is left for this staff, which is left for the people of the Left Margen who live that company to exist, is for the Administration to make one with their demands, that we all go to the block on this issue, because otherwise we cannot face a giant like General Electric, who makes decisions at a global level. The plants of those territories will be closed where they are less glued to the closure. And that is why the work that your department has to do, which the Labour Inspectorate has to do on this issue, is fundamental. That is why I would like to know today what the degree of commitment your department is to ensure that this fraudulent ERE (because there is evidence that it is fraudulent) is going to fall down without the need to reach judicial avenues that may at some point be late, because you already know that when a company closes it is very difficult to reopen it, and much more if it is in the hands of a multinational.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u120	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Becerra, you are asking me about the plans of the Department of Labour and Justice to prevent fraudulent action in the procedure for the processing of the employment regulation file of the General Electric plant in the Vizcaine town of Ortuella. With all my consideration, Your Honor, I have to answer that the department is going to act on this occasion as it does on any other similar circumstance, complying with the law. By complying with the law to prevent any fraud in the processing of an employment regulation file. I remind you that, as you are well aware, the labour reform introduced by the Royal Decree-Law of February 2012 introduced important changes in article 51 of the Workers' Statute, limiting the work authority's action in this area and giving rise to the judicialization of employment regulation procedures. The main key change, in order to answer their question, is that the authorization of the labour authority is not necessary to carry out the collective dismissal, except in the cases of force majeure as a cause of extinction. This authorization was the key to negotiating processes from the labour authority that minimized the negative consequences of these processes. As far as the competences assigned to the Department of Labour and Justice are concerned, I will briefly describe the actions and functions of the Labour Inspectorate in these cases. The framework governing this action is Royal Decree 1483/2012 of 29 October 2012 approving the Rules of Procedure for collective dismissal and suspension of contracts and reduction of working hours; in particular, Article 11 of the Royal Decree refers to the mandatory report to which you referred, and it is the one which must issue the Labour Inspectorate and which must have the following characteristics. It is the labour authority that receives the communication of the corporate collective dismissal decision, together with the required documentation. The labour authority then forwards it to the Labour Inspectorate, and from then on the report must be evacuated (and I say at that time), within 15 days of notification to the labour authority of the end of the consultation period, and it is incorporated into the procedure. The report should report on business communication and on the development of the consultation period. In particular, it will reflect the following paragraphs. It shall note that the documentation submitted by the employer in relation to the causes of dismissal is in line with that required, i.e. whether it is produced for economic, technical, organizational or production reasons. It should also include the finding that the common documentation has been provided to all variants of the procedure. The report will place particular emphasis on verifying that the criteria for the appointment of workers affected by dismissal are not discriminatory on the grounds of age, disability, sex, origin, marital status, social status, religion, political ideas, sexual orientation, union membership and other cases referred to in article 17.1 of the Workers' Statute. Another important part of the report is the verification by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate that the objective of the consultation period has been strictly met, i.e. that an agreement has been reached between the company and the representation of workers. The possibility of avoiding or reducing collective redundancies has been explored and should be included in the negotiation established during the consultation period. As you are well aware, Mr Becerra, any case of collective redundancy, suspension of contracts and reduction of working hours must include accompanying social measures, and an assessment of them will be included in the report I am referring to. On the other hand, if collective redundancy concerns more than fifty persons, an external relocation plan for the workers concerned should be included in the documentation accompanying the communication of initiation of the procedure. The report of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate will check and prove that this is the case. In short, a fundamental aspect of the work of the Labour Inspectorate is to ensure that fraud, fraud, coercion or abuse of rights are not committed in the conclusion of the agreement adopted during the consultation period. Therefore, Your Honor, there is a regulation that seeks to prevent any fraud or attempted fraud. It is a guarantee regulation for the weaker part, which in this case is the workers affected by an employment regulation file. It is possible that you and I would like to see another regulation, but I have to tell you that it is up to the Department of Labour and Justice and the Labour Inspectorate to enforce what is in place. So far, Mr Becerra, the explanation of the competences assumed by each party and the responsibility that belongs to the department I run. Turning to the specific situation of the General Electric plant in Ortuella, I must point out that the company submitted on 16 October a collective redundancy file which would initially affect 115 of the 137 workers in the workplace of this locality of Vizcaine. Among those affected there are twelve with more than fifty-five years of age, for which the company has signed a special agreement with Social Security. The cause of the file, according to the company – and I repeat, according to the documentation submitted by it – is economic. Returning to our procedure, a period of consultation with the workers has begun and will end, unless the parties decide to extend it, in mid-November, next 16. Due to the circumstances I have mentioned above, the Department of Labour and Justice, with the utmost respect for the autonomy of the parties and according to the framework of labour relations that governs our system, we can only urge the General Electric company and the workers' representatives to reach an agreement. Agreement which should aim to maintain the largest possible number of jobs in Euskadi and even to maintain General Electric in Ortuella. Subsequently, the report of the Labour Inspectorate will be drawn up in accordance with the terms of Royal Decree 1483/2012 of 29 October. For my part, I am absolutely sure that this report will contain all the considerations required by the rule. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate in this case that there is no need for extraordinary measures to be added to what has already been prescribed. Be assured, Your Honor, that any infringement of the procedure will be identified and denounced by the Labour Inspectorate, and be assured, Mr Becerra, that any infringement of the procedure will be placed in the hands of the relevant courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u122	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u123	Madam Counsellor, you tell me about the circumstances in which the Labour Inspectorate has to move to this day. They are circumstances of all known. You tell me about a procedure, and you tell me about a relocation plan. We just don't want a relocation plan! It's just that what we want is for the agreement to keep the plant here, and remain open and remain as viable as it was before, and as it is now! You tell me that the company has alleged economic causes. Notice, in 2015 the company sold 23 million, and bought 42 million. No one in their right mind understands that to sell 23 million is bought 42, except that what you want is to have losses, which is what you get, to have losses. And so they managed to have losses in 2015 and 2016. These are the economic causes that the company is claiming today, fraudulent. Fraudulent. In these circumstances, the representation of the workers – whom I take advantage of to greet and who have been with all the groups in this House, because they are logically concerned – presented in June a report with all the evidence of this fraud, and the Labour Inspectorate did not want to investigate. He didn't want to investigate. And now, when the ERE is presented in October, you tell me, and you're right, that a report must be submitted in fifteen days. What will the Labour Inspectorate do in fifteen days that I haven't done in three months! How are you going to help the staff uncover the fraud I'm telling you here? What I want to ask you is... You are a counselor, and therefore you have a political position. Look, when Councilwoman Tapia learned of this issue she told the press that General Electric (because, of course, the Councilwoman does not talk to the staff, the Councilwoman talks to the company) has conveyed to them "the need for a restructuring, after having transmitted to them long ago that the plant was not meeting previous expectations. They made this bet" – I'm reading in betweencomilados –... , "they made this bet, but the market may not have met expectations and perhaps there are more elements to analyze in depth." But Councilwoman Tapia has no intention of analyzing anything in depth, because Councilwoman Tapia believes in a neoliberal economic model. But you are socialist, or you say you are, and therefore your position cannot be the same as that of Councilwoman Tapia. It can't be the same. You are socialist; you have to show, from your leadership position, a commitment to the workforce, a commitment to the Basque industry and a commitment to the Left Margin and the Mining Zone, which always have it in their mouths. They always have it in their mouths. And the compromise cannot be read to us what administrative procedure the Labour Inspectorate has to follow. It cannot be limited to that, because fraud is obvious, fraud is manifest. You cannot limit yourself to that, Counselor, because there are many families distressed by this situation, especially given – and I stress it again – that this is a viable, modern, sustainable enterprise. It is a company that will be relocated without any real reason to relocate. And that cannot be left in the reading of a mere administrative procedure and cannot be substantiated in a report of the Labour Inspectorate evacuated in fifteen days, fast and running, verifying that the company has delivered all the papers. You can't stay in that, because if we don't have a commitment as a country (as a country), where the workers, the society and the administration (the government) all go to one, these giants sweep us off the map. Today it is General Electric and tomorrow it will be another company, and you will have the same problem last morning, and always, always, or almost always, with fraudulent actions of the multinationals, that for that they have law firms and for that they have teams thinking about how to close plants, how to take the production to increase their profits. And that's not what we want in this society. I understand that it is not what you want as a socialist, and, of course, it is not what our group wants. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u124	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u125	Mr Becerra, in my first speech I gave you an explanation of the procedure because you ask me as the Department of Labour and Justice and ask me what my department is going to do. My department, as you said, through the Labour Inspectorate has to act, but I do not want you to have the feeling that our intervention is simply management, because I understand with you that an ERE, like all similar EREs that unfortunately occur in our Autonomous Community, has a social and human scope that requires a political response consistent with this problem. On the one hand, I will tell you that I do not feel at all identified with the labour reform imposed by the People's Party Government by the 2012 Royal Decree, but I do not agree with the poor conditions that allow companies to access job termination, contract suspension or shorter working hours. It does not seem to me that the extension of the objective causes for which dismissal measures can be requested is the most consistent with a progressive social vision and defence of the rights of workers. The labour reform introduced a cheaper dismissal, with fewer requirements and more chances of changing the working conditions established for workers. And that reform was a major blow to collective bargaining, as it gave priority to corporate agreements over those at the higher level. He did the same with regard to the processing and role of the interveners in the procedure of an employment regulation file. The Department of Labour and Justice, together with the entire Basque Government, is committed to revitalizing collective bargaining in Euskadi, especially on the basis of the agreement reached by the social partners in January this year. We bet on social dialogue, and my bet is always negotiation between the parties, and this requires a balance that needs to be restored through the impetus of collective agreements. But I would like to express to you, Mr Becerra, my conviction that the companies that are located in our country do so with the will to root out and with projects that bring benefits to society as a whole, projects that do not seek rapid enrichment and relocation when the estimated short-term expectations are not met. The Basque Government is committed to the companies involved in our socio-economic fabric, and I can assure you that there are many. The vast majority of our companies collaborate and enrich our community. And I would also like to reiterate to you, Mr Becerra, that the Department of Labour and Justice is going to comply with the rules, but, beyond what they say, we are going to do the mediation work whenever we can, which is also our responsibility. In this regard, be sure that we will respond to as many proposals as possible. Complying with this will, and regardless of the report being prepared by the Labour Inspectorate, last October 31st the Department of Labour and Justice met with one of the representative trade union organizations in General Electric, which requested a meeting. The Deputy Director of Labour and Social Security and the Director of Labour met with trade union representatives to discuss the possibilities of finding alternative solutions to the employment regulation file submitted. Be assured, Mr Becerra, that we continue to work on this line of dealing with trade unions and works councils. I hope that I have sufficiently argued with you on the guarantees that exist and on the attitude that the Department of Labour and Justice maintains. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u126	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "Apology, made by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to the Chief of Work and Justice, to prevent the ill-conditions which are being inflicted on public works." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u127	As a matter of fact, we hesitated about who to do this interpelation. Because because of the distribution of the chairs of this government, we don't know how the competition ended, but seeing, Ms. San José, that you wear the inspection and that the title of your department is Lana and Justice, we decided to make this interference. What I don't know is putting the first stone on top of some public work that you've come near. Have you come to visit public works for a long time, to continue? It is only to see what the state of public work is at present. We could start from St. Mames, with what litigation, and really the cost of the work was, wasn't it? The prices of separation are down. We've got change now. In Anoa, a work of 70 million has been transferred to 50 million. Even AHT, there's a high-speed train right there. For four years we haven't had a holiday in a row. 500 and 700 hours a year. Then, for instance, the workers who charge below 60% of the Commandee, and then we'll be surprised that there are work-engineers. Or in education itself. They are making several schools, and under what circumstances and what kind of artistic qualities. Well, that's what we have, Mrs. San José, and I can list more, but that's where we're going to leave it. So you're ready to face the pristine and the injustice? For if you are ready, you must be much more bold than the Socialist Party and the Jest Party, who sustains you, for hitherto, and especially in the previous legislation, there has been but little daring to face the Precinct and the Injustice. Why do I say that? Now in the previous legislation the Socialist Party and the Communist Party had been enabled to prevent the prefectants from public works, the bad practices, the misinjury, and the opposition of certain clauses in the public. But what did they do? They looked at the other side and disfigured the legislative of the people. And what we have for the moment, then? There is a forest which is very plain in public work. We have a forest in public work. So the question is, how far your department is prepared to go in this legislation, this government. I associate the public work with opposition, for the model of contractation absolutely determines what takes place in public work, adapts it entirely to the conditions of the workers, adapts it wholly to the prevarietion, and adapts it entirely to the quality of the work, yes. So the question is, if you're willing to end your presidency and to guarantee the minimum decent conditions of work. But that means if you're ready, you have to be a model. The model, changing the nature of prices in fluids, including models, social clauses, continuing to fill up the model, the contract of labor, because many of them are collected, but what do you do then? The hours of labour are prolonged by sub-contradiction, and as there is no inspection, or the vision looks on the other side, so the contract of labour is not fulfilled. So the vision should also be activated. You should be an example to develop high-quality works. Finally, an example to promote a different public policy. And it is not worth while to say that there is a vision, that there is a vision. This joker is no longer valid, it is not credible that it is not only true, but because we are seeing that the Vision gazes over and over and over again, and there is nothing but the accusations made by the representatives of the workers, the means by which they gain. It's no use to say that it's not a matter of fun, because it's a matter of hearing and you can't go into that private area. With the technical conditions that it sets in the "Morane" work, it's a direct contact, it's the boss and the boss. It's determined manager. And you have the handles, for instance, when you remember that we made 4/2013 Foru Rule by force, unfortunately the camota has been introduced by so many resources, but your government doesn't apply. So, you're ready to spread your arms and take measures, Mrs. San José? What measures will this department take? What measures will this government take to answer the ill-conditions which are subject to the public works of the EAE?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u129	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I left where I left off. From EH Bildu we are asked about the measures that will be taken to respond adequately to the current insufficient conditions that they consider to be surrounding the public works of the Basque Autonomous Community. The inquiry examines complaints by trade union organizations, accidents at work and the quality of buildings. First of all, I would like to say to you that the last aspect of the justification for the inquiry, which is the quality of the buildings, is not among the actions of the Department of Labour and Justice. But, in any case, Mrs Ubera, be assured that any work carried out by the Basque Government, by the different departments of the Basque Government, is governed by the conditions specified in the Public Sector Contracts Act. Law which, as you know, has recently been amended to incorporate provisions contained in the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council; rules affecting greater transparency in public procurement and achieving better value for money. It is in this second objective that, far from assuming an economicist criterion - it is defined in the statement of reasons itself, and I quote textually - "for the first time the obligation of the contracting bodies is established to ensure that the design of the award criteria allows obtaining high quality works, supplies and services through the inclusion of qualitative, environmental, social and innovative aspects linked to the subject matter of the contract. On the other hand, you know, Your Honor, that in our Autonomous Community the fulfilment of labour obligations in public procurement must be verified by the public authorities, as enacted by Law 3/2016 of 7 April, for the inclusion of certain social clauses in public procurement. But let's go to the issues that relate in your inquiry to the competencies that are attributed to the Department of Labour and Justice. I will go back years to explain to you that from the government there has always been a provision regarding the relationship between occupational health and public works. But in order to get to the point, and to define later what is currently being done and what has been done for years, and why, I will stick to the agreement between the Basque Government and the outlaws. On 2 June 2010, an action protocol was signed for the prevention of labour risks in works relating to the major infrastructures promoted by the public administrations of the Basque Country. It was signed by the Basque Government by the Housing, Public Works and Transport Councillor, Iñaki Arriola; the Councillor for Industry, Innovation, Trade and Tourism, Barnabé Unda; and the Councillor for Employment and Social Affairs, Gemma Zabaleta. By the deputies, the deputy of Public Works and Transport of Álava, Luis Alberto Zarrabeitia; the deputy of Public Works of Bizkaia, Itziar Garamendi, and the deputy of Road Infrastructures of Gipuzkoa, Eneko Goia. And in this protocol, the first manifestation is the following: "Prevention of labour risks is one of the pillars of public administration policy, particularly in public works". It should also be made clear that, prior to the adoption of the above-mentioned protocol of 2 June 2010, the Strategic Plan 2007-2010 on Occupational Safety and Health of the Basque Country, approved by the Basque Governing Council on 3 July 2007, included among its strategic objectives the need for institutional coordination in the area of occupational safety and health. Coordination establishing a protocol for preventive action in the field of occupational safety and health, general preventive action, and a specific protocol for all major infrastructure projects. The protocol established the establishment of monitoring commissions in each of the three territories, composed of technicians from all the public administrations involved. And this is the formula with which we continue to work today, through the three territorial commissions and acting as secretaries or secretaries the holders of the territorial delegations of Labour, participating a technician from Osalan as representative of the Department of Labour and Justice, a technician from the department concerned, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and a representative of the outlaw parliament of the territory in which the work is promoted. And with this I believe, Mrs Ubera, that I am responding to what is the main concern for you and for all of us: the preservation of the health and occupational safety of people working in this case in public works. And that is why, really, you cannot say that the Basque Government is looking elsewhere. I assure you not; neither the Basque Government nor the rest of the administrations. But it is also true that you, Mrs Ubera, have not merely pointed out the problem of accidents at work and the necessary preventive action that we have to take, and we have shown that we have to do so, but also talk about a breach of collective agreements and the difficulties of monitoring the subcontracting chain. Let me point out to you that from the Department of Labour and Justice, and in relation to possible work breaches (collective agreements, subcontracting, terms and conditions of employment, etc.), it is done, as you have pointed out, from the Labour Inspectorate. And neither does the Labour Inspectorate look anywhere else. We understand that the Labour Inspectorate must make no distinctions to any collective, either develop its work in public works or do so in any other sector. However, in planned actions and within the competence of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, an inspector has regular visits to this type of work to verify that the conditions of safety and health are respected and that the company's obligations regarding labour relations (wages, working hours, etc.) are fulfilled. But you also know my position on job insecurity, and in this regard I would like to remind you of the specific campaign being carried out by the Labour Inspectorate on temporary work and part-time contracts. It also knows my continuing demands for collective bargaining, and that this is widespread in Euskadi and we have reached a collective bargaining that we all believed to see after the interprofessional agreement of 17 January, signed by the business representation and all trade union organizations. We have the means to act in public works, and in what is the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Justice we will increase them. In the coming years, at least until 2023, more public work is planned, and we commit ourselves to continue to act with all intensity so that the workers involved in it do so safely and in the best conditions, with quality jobs in their most comprehensive definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u130	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u131	Look, I'm grateful you answered me. You've been one of the first to answer me. No, I didn't want the answer, but you answered me. You told me I know your position and that there are examples of protest campaigns and petitions for collective negotiations. But I don't want to know the positions, Mrs. San José, I want to know the initiatives, and more than I know, I want to see the initiatives because I don't see them. You're in charge of the established law. You say that labor contract guarantees security, that health and public work are of quality. That's a lie. I've already asked you, besides placing the first stone, do you visit the works? Go look at the works, see what happens. Besides, without seeing them, they give you clues by means of means of means of communication from the workers' representatives. Test, hire, interest. Do you really want me to face the prefect? I can see little courage, little courage. You're in charge of that co-ordination committee between the administrations. This board doesn't work, that committee doesn't work. Do you want to protect people? Do you want to encourage quality employment? For here the public administration, public institutions, must be models, and for that purpose, if you want to be models, the formula, the law hitherto, is not working, it is not guaranteed. Don't fool your head. Do not deceive your head, and you also say that there will be a resurrection, that the public work will increase. Well, now's your chance. And what you have to do is change legislation, change regulations. But this regulation and legislation ought not to be changed in order to establish what is in force. I mean, we don't have to make a rule, a law, a precedent. Do you understand? That's what you're doing. And we have to do the opposite, because otherwise the bells-and they are of no use at all. They won't do it. And the management of public money requires ethical prax, and what it demands is in the contract of a proper management in public works. I mean, school, hospitals, football fields, trains, whatever infrastructure, that's where we have to protect people. Construction, we have to protect the people who make these infrastructure because these infrastructurees are also for people, and the construction must begin to protect them. And when it is to direct the public work, or to direct contractions, what we have in mind cannot be to cheapen and save money, and this government seems to have it in mind. We hear several times that fraud must be charged with the prosecutor. All right, all right. But this fraud, which is generalized in the public work, must also be resisted. Or don't you see what's going on? Or rather, you are the cheaters. You are the ones who encourage the public work. Therefore, what we have to do is to put the mechanism in order to face a number of problems which influence the poor who work for the contractors in the public euscal sector. To prevent the uncertainty of the conditions which are applicable, to prevent the instability of the job. And to this end several measures may be applied, several measures: that the price of liquidation would suffice to include social clauses, to respect the conditions of provincial agreements in the smallest area of the sector, to regulate the opposition, to limit, to subrogate the workers when the contractor is changed, and so on. We have so many measures at hand that you can regulate so many measures to guide the tenors, when you define the laws, in order to regulate the rules. And what we ask of you is courage, not to look away, to go, to visit, to see. But don't legalize the Prefect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u133	Mrs Ubera, I have already explained to you what are the competencies of this Department of Labour and Justice, and I will refer exclusively to them. We are asked to do more, and I take up the challenge, and I am extending it to all social actors and to all social organizations. Because I maintain a proactive attitude in this area, and this means that I do not just choose a path of public denunciation, as others do, and I call for joint work on the institutional participation bodies that the Basque Government, and my department in particular, has for the participation of all. In Euskadi we have tripartite bodies (Osalan, Lanbide, Hobetuz, the Basque Vocational Training Council, the Bureau of Social Dialogue...) and bipartite bodies, such as the Labour Relations Council and the Economic and Social Council, and they are all instruments that must be used for the participation of all that we have something to say; to improve the occupational health and safety of all workers, working conditions and subcontracting conditions. Recognizing, however, that collective bargaining is the responsibility of workers' representatives and employers and trade unions. Mrs Ubera, do you not think that the opportunity to participate in those bodies should not be wasted? Don't you think we can improve through the participation, collaboration and commitment of all those who have something to say and participate in them? One of the axes of the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work concerns public administrations, and within this axis the promotion is specified so that the specifications of the contracts with the Public Administration contemplate concrete commitments of occupational safety and health, justified from the perspective of the prevention of working conditions such as hours, hours and rest periods. It also envisages the control of subcontracting activities, fulfilling the integration of the prevention of companies that usually act on contracts or subcontracts and in which a large number of people provide their services in client companies. It is our obligation, and we work every day to improve and to give greater coverage to our workers. I will give you some information on the actions of the territorial commissions, which you say do not work and do not act, as an example of that commitment to the conditions under which public works are carried out. He was told that visits were normally carried out jointly between Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate. I'm going to make Gipuzkoa's, because, as you know, it's where the most public work is done today. It is in this historic territory of Gipuzkoa that the commission of major infrastructures has held meetings on 3 March and 23 June, and this month is scheduled for the third meeting of the year. The works of the high-speed train have been made nine visits, those of promotion of housing in Txomin Enea have been three, three others to the hill of San Bartolomé, two others to the station of Loiola, two more to the section Antzuola-Bergara of the GI-632, and two more to the works of the incinerator of Zubieta. Both the works of the Astigarraga-Irun road and those of the stadium of Anoeta have been visited on one occasion, and new performances are planned for this month of November. I do not follow the data of Bizkaia and Álava, but believe me that we are working hard on what is a clear will of the Basque Government in this matter. I want to finish my speech with three commitments. First, to bring together the Interinstitutional Commission on Public Works to consider additional measures in view of the increase in public works that will undoubtedly be carried out in the coming years, at least until 2023, as I have said before. Continue to involve the social partners in the actions that we have been developing and that fall within the framework of the Basque Strategy for occupational safety and health and in the follow-up of the major public works, involving all the parties and the corresponding tripartite commissions that have representatives of the Administration, workers and employers. Maintain and increase, where appropriate, within the perspective of the quantitative development of the volume of public works, the actions of the Labour Inspectorate to ensure compliance with labour regulations and relevant conventions. I hope I have responded to your concerns. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-03.u134	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-one.
