ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. "The only thing. It's about the bill of law that the General Presidency of the Estunius and Pre Account Committee supports 2017 Euscal Autonomy. Discipline and final resolution. According to the progress of the past years, this is the method we use to discuss the judgment. First, the first round of the teams, the 30 minutes from the small to the big, to show the position of the teams in regard to the impact they've made, and if they've booked any corrections, what reasons they've had to reserve. The answer shift will be 10 minutes. When the debate is over, the corrections made to the division, which will be reserved, will vote together according to their groups. However, if any team asks for it, a correction will vote separately and we will do so. Then the squares that receive the expense summing of the previous ones will be voted with the changes approved on the committee. As to the corrections made on the articles, they will also vote together according to the legislatures. Then the articles that are reserved for the corrections will be put to vote, and finally the other articles of judgment and the name of the law will be voted. Therefore, if this is so, we shall proceed to dispute. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you all know, we reached an agreement some time ago with the Basque Government, an agreement that serves to approve the government's budgets for this year 2017, which will therefore give the government budgetary stability. And we did it from responsibility, because we understand that when things start to go a little bit well, or a little better than the bad situation we were in, from the administrations what is not to do is to hinder or put stones on the road, but quite the contrary: to promote as much as possible that economic growth and that job creation. We must give confidence to businesses, and we must ensure the necessary financing of the social spending resources that we have in this community, which some would like to see more, and even some groups have said that, of course, the budget was little higher than the previous year, but we have to say that if this budget were not approved today, we would have EUR 150 million less than last year to spend. Because it is clear that EUR 150 million more debt issuance is authorised than in the past year. We have reached this agreement... First, we said from the outset that we have a model and it is clear that others have other models, and the Government has one that is somewhat ambiguous: it took fifteen days or more to decide where it wanted to reach agreements or with whom it wanted to reach agreements. And of course, beyond the amendments that we have agreed and that have already been adopted in the relevant Committee on Finance, our agreement is that we sign with the Councilman, which sets out the political priorities and goes beyond, of course, the budget headings and the amendments that we were presenting. And it is clear that we do not reach full agreement with the Basque Government either, because we have already said from the outset that this was not our budget, there are many items in this budget that we do not agree with (we understand that there is a lot of current expenditure that can be cut or eliminated, especially in certain public bodies and societies), but we also express our willingness to agree. And we also know that when someone wants to make a deal or is willing to make a deal, he knows what limits each one has. It is very easy to say "We want to reach an agreement", but if I put in conditions that I already know they won't be able to accept them, then each one can explain and sell what he thinks is appropriate, but in this case we said from the minute one and we showed our willingness to reach an agreement with budgets that some of us did not like that if the amount of the amendments was little or much..., budgets that are more than 11 billion euros; budgets in which more than 50% of that 11 billion euros is dedicated to pay salaries; budgets in which the most important item is the 1 billion euros to pay the debt (the second is the pharmacy expenditure, about 800 million euros, the third is the GIR, which with the housing supplement...). [[They scream in the guest box]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u2	Please. Please be quiet. Please. Get out! Please, outside... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u3	Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. It did not seem to me that they were beneficiaries of GIR, but in any case I repeat: the cost of GIR, plus housing supplement, EUR 500 million, almost 5% of the budget. Or the Basque Y, 350 million euros; not to say that lighting or lifting the blind from all the rest of the administration takes almost another 30% of these budgets. And, as I was saying, there were two models, one that came up from some parties... There are some parties that consider them to be very progressive, because if we spend more – and I say we spend more – on social spending, for example in the GIR, that is very good and we are doing very well. We thought the opposite, I said it the other day. And it is clear that we did not agree, and that is why I say that another reason for reaching the pact was that, of course, it was very likely to worsen the budget that the Basque Government had brought us if it came to agree with other groups that, for example, proposed and continue to propose today, increase the cost of GIR by 15%. It is not true that this budget is cut; it is increased by 1.5% compared to last year. That, by the way, increases considerably more than many salaries and pensions, but, well, this is a government decision that we accept, although we have to say that it did not seem right to us as it was coming. And I say that budgets have to be sustainable, and in this budget social spending, with the forgiveness of some groups, is increasing, and, of course, we have substantially increased it. We are more concerned about families with children: we have increased it by more than 3.5 million euros. We are very interested in reconciling family and working life, and it is obviously going to increase over the course of the legislature. And above all we are interested in employment, job creation, which we understood could be increased in this budget for the industrialization plan, support for entrepreneurs, R & D, the social economy... , and here our amendments reflect an increase of more than EUR 16 million in this budget for these specific areas. And, as I said, we also increase social spending, but in items that we consider important, in education, in health, in culture or in development cooperation, which we also think is very important and is a heading that this group has always defended and a policy that we have always defended from this group, without forgetting the victims of terrorism. And there are parties and groups that posed other things. As I said, there were groups that proposed a far-reaching increase in income-guarantee income, which does not make it sustainable. There are groups that propose the suppression of the AVE, that the AVE does not arrive, and we are in favor... Well, there are progressive groups in this Parliament that have always opposed any progress in this community. I know few... If we were in the 19th century today, some group in this House would oppose the steam train, for the same arguments that are being made today against the Y, to set an example. But, well, as we are in the 21st century and we are in favour of the country's progress, of having the best infrastructure of all kinds and of improving the quality of life of all citizens, because, of course, our model was very different from what other groups were proposing. Finally, I would like to refer to something that is also very important to us, which is taxation. Here there are groups that raise taxation from simple collection. They are wrong (I am not going to repeat the debate, which we have been discussing for several days now). They are wrong; we saw it the other day in the approach made to us by some group with a proposed law. They are wrong to think that taxes are only used to collect. Taxes have the purpose of collecting, but they have the purpose of collecting not suffocating the economy and people, but the opposite: that there are more and more people working, that there are more and more contributors, that more and more people are being collected... Because many times by lowering taxes you collect more, and by raising taxes you sometimes collect zero. And, as examples we already have a few posts in this month that we have been dealing with this budget, I am not going to repeat myself in the same way. It is important that the Basques have budgets, that they meet the expenses of the administration, of the administrations, but it is even more important that that is sustainable, because in the end, if it is not sustainable, it is when the cuts really come. Here, when some talk about cuts and the cut-off party, what will have to be explained to them... Well, it's the same, it's useless to explain it to you, but there are some that we save the welfare state that others with their proposals seem to want to charge it, because there's no money to pay it. Even when some people say, "We have to look at the debts we have, whether they're fair or not," then what they're proposing is that we get more debt, and that, apparently, we borrow money from someone we're going to tell that we're not going to pay the money we owe him now, and as they're going to be so generous, then they're going to continue to lend us money. Well, that's not how it works. They don't work that way in their homes, and they certainly don't work that way in the administration. And that is why we have reached agreement. We are going to abstain in the processing of these budgets, we are going to allow this autonomous community to have budgets. They improve substantially, as I said, with the amendments that we have tabled, but above all we understand that the direction that they ultimately take and the direction that we agreed on in the document that we signed a month ago is the right one, and it is the one that should follow the whole legislature. Obviously, we are going to vote against, as we have already done in the Committee on Finance, all the amendments tabled by both Bildu and Podemos, and that will, of course, allow the Basques to have budgets this year. Budgets that will exceed 11 billion and that, if we follow this path, I understand that even tax revenues could be better by the end of the year. And it would probably not be necessary to make tax reforms that involve raising taxes on citizens, but quite the opposite. Perhaps we need to make "let's see what taxes are reduced" approaches, so that there are more citizens who contribute to the public coffers and among them we all get cheaper, but we have more money to finance more projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u6	Good morning, everyone. Today we come to the final stage for the approval of the budget of the Basque Government for the year 2017, to give the green light to the economic instrument that assures the impulse of public policies in our community. A budget that has in its DNA solidarity and social cohesion, which shows the commitment and responsibility of this bipartite government to society and its priorities, which includes economic items that will make possible the government program that has been agreed between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for economic recovery, for job creation, for the maintenance of public policies in health, education, and social protection. A budget that, however heavy it may be, strengthens social rights. The Socialists have come to this final debate on budgets with the same feeling that we started processing it a month and a half ago, and it is that no party had an alternative project and that probably, if other party interests had not been crossed, today we would come out with minimal rejection and broad agreement on the incorporation of different proposals. Because those who come to this day with some reserved amendments do so by appearing to be insurmountable differences that should not be so many, because they have been lost on the road to this 702 amendment procedure. Today they will only discuss or defend 59 of them in this budget. But even from this so-called agreement with the People's Party for the approval of this budget, between the two groups that have not wanted to reach an agreement today have supported 75% of the improvements proposed by the People's Party to the accounts presented. They have endorsed 75% of the proposals of those who in their speech say that this agreement pollutes the sense of budgets. That can only be incoherence or posture. If you were consistent, so that those 98 amendments which have been unanimously endorsed, or which have had the express endorsement either of EH Bildu or of Elkarrekin Podemos, or their abstention, can be incorporated, in coherence, these groups should at least not vote against. Perhaps this morning we have some unexpected surprise, and that surprise is that those who support budget improvements are not opposed to these being approved and implemented. For the time being, this procedure has left us with that curiosity. It must be that the new time that some say has been opened in Euskadi, where you have to lose the fear of pacting, is beginning to install. Because this wasn't happening before. I remind you that in the last parliamentary term EH Bildu never supported one of the amendments that we Socialists have incorporated, even if it was to finance agreements reached with them. EH Bildu opposed our departure for energy poverty, opposed the amendment to use a single euro in fracking, and also opposed increased spending on research and innovation. We've had some more surprises in this process. For example, that alternative models of society that claim to defend both EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos focus for one in the Department of Security, and for another in the reduction of high-ranking salaries, because that was the bulk of their amendments. Because the bulky part in the amount – which is not in the number – is the one that referred to the high-speed train, in whose elimination both groups came to coincide but that they, both groups know that it is only to give appearance, to make up the total amounts they claim to mobilize, because with those resources they cannot count. And it is not we who say it or repeat it, but the services of this House, which have left in writing in the reports of the budgetary procedure that these proposals are amendments of a political nature but not of budgetary effect, because, since they are a management order that is compensated by the quota, they are not items that can go to finance any other expenditure or that are incorporated in remnants. Another striking part in which the two groups also coincided was the direct elimination of the items financed by public bodies. For example, they eliminated any expenditure on the Basque Energy Agency (anyone, including the wages of their workers), but did not promote or promote any legal initiative to eliminate that body. So these amendments, which also seem so lustrous, those which some have justified with such deep reasoning as "Araban putzurik ez" (all that can be found in a banner, but not in an amendment), are also not valid contributions. It's more like postureum. Then yes, there are some coincident amendments in both, concerning income security income and where I recognise that you have a somewhat more solid argument. Although it draws attention to the difference between the two in how much the amounts are going to rise by 8% and reverse the 7% that was reduced six years ago. But, apart from that doubt as to the amounts, I recognize that that is a difference. We have already explained the reasons why we have chosen to update according to the CPI, as is done in Navarre with the support, by the way, of both groups, and establishing a minimum also higher than that established in Navarre, where, by the way, they do not have any other kind of social rights that we do have in this autonomous community, such as the right to housing. We have explained this to you, you do not accept it, and therefore you must maintain your amendments. But even in this we won't say there's an alternative. And there isn't. There isn't, because EH Bildu didn't put it as a red line when he started this process. Apart from his substantive speech – which I acknowledge – until the time of registering these amendments, he did not make it an indispensable and inexcusable condition for trying to join the budgetary agreement. It was after, when they needed to put on their entire amendment, when they recovered that argument. But, well, these are issues that happen when you need to justify your positions. That amendment as a whole was also justified – you justified it – by the fact that there is not enough investment in research and development, despite the fact that the budget raised a 6% increase in this heading. And we were surprised by that approach and see some partial amendments, which you put forward, to reduce the amounts for innovation and research projects in the primary sector, where we have public enterprises such as Azti, Neiker and Hazi, which have been an important support for improving fisheries and agriculture and for rural development. The truth is that these have been reconsidered in the parliamentary procedure and are not going to defend them today in this plenary, because in addition – and you know it – the budget that will be adopted today, even in spite of your votes, will improve further in this chapter, because several proposals from the People's Party will be incorporated to increase the planned investment in innovation and development by 1.3 million more. There are more issues that you have reconsidered from those 294 initial amendments and which you will not be defending today in this plenary, and which, by the way, represented a quarter of them, and which were those relating to the Department of Safety and Security. The only department, by the way, that already reduced its departure costs. It must be that that's where your alternative model is. There they proposed to reduce everything. They did as much as the departure for the officers' pants as the maintenance of the helicopters or even the salary of the officers dependent on the department, were these ERTZAINAS or not, concealing in their argument the lack of sympathy they profess towards the Ertzaintza, towards the Basque police. Because the only argument you used for these reductions, cloned in each amendment, was that it followed the parameters of the 2013 draft budget. A project that was no more than that, project, because it was never approved, because the entire opposition agreed to reject it until we did something better. They have passed that four years (four years), but it seems that EH Bildu is comfortable staying on that date in this matter. Another significant issue that has also been said is the attitude they have towards any infrastructure. The alternative model seems to stop everything that can move forward, whatever it takes. And that is what they do with the VAD, although, as I have already told you, this proposal of theirs does not affect the accounts themselves. But they are also defending other proposals, which, by the way, are not going to be defended today either. We have convinced them with the explanations in the parliamentary procedure. And I am referring to the amendment in which they intended to abolish the departure for the Donostialdea subway, and all because that group – and not others who also represent citizens in that city – is against it. Curiously, this did not, but they proposed an alternative, another initiative that they also fell for the procedure (they fell a lot in the procedure), and that I imagine they did because they had not had an important agent for this amendment that you proposed. And I'm referring to what you guys were doing to us for the BRT or express bus in San Sebastián. I want to think that you copied it or proposed it because you agree to do it in Vitoria, right? Because here in this town hall mobility has been designed in the city and they support it. Although, to be consistent, you should at least not vote against the heading that will make possible in these budgets that project of the gasteiztarra capital. Of the other contributions – and to conclude with what you have been making – there is one that also draws much attention to us, and that is to increase spending on youth employment programs. What I believe is that, if we want to increase spending, it means explicitly recognizing that these programmes exist, although a couple of weeks ago in plenary they were inclined to deny it, and for this reason they proposed the need for a youth law (the same law you opposed seven years ago), for which they also proposed a sum of EUR 20,000 which they should already consider not necessary, because it does not reach this plenary. All of this, in fact, I think it has quite a posture, of trying to justify that it is those who are concerned about certain issues, but who ultimately make proposals that do not respond to another model, but curiously, as is the case, endorse the Government's proposal. Anyway, you'll know. I turn now to Elkarrekin Podemos' proposals, and I will focus first on the revenue side. You tried to juggle to calculate how much extra you could put in the way of the surcharges. A proposal for a bold, improvised, last-minute, unfair, no legal cover, regressive, and based on the exclusive urgency of justifying the need to submit an amendment to the whole or its self-exclusion before any agreement. Something that was absolutely evident in the past, on Thursday, when we rejected its occurrence. Because that's what it was: an occurrence, pure opportunism. They were urged to deal with this matter of income not on the day they arrived in this Parliament, but when the government presented to this House a proposal with income and expenses that they were getting married. That is the only truth behind that proposal. In your premiere you have missed an opportunity to show that you can actually have, or have, an income alternative, which was what the socialists did in the past legislature: first of all, to propose a monographic debate on income, on taxation, and another on expenditure, on employment. We were not lucky to be cared for, it is true, but at the end of 2013 (by force they hang) we were able to recalculate the revenues and we were able to improve the expenses. And this year, in 2017 – I repeat it every time I come to this rostrum – we will analyze the results and propose the modifications that are necessary with serenity, without urgency, from serious approaches. As regards the expenditure proposed to us in their amendments, I will not repeat the arguments referred to in the TAV or in the public companies or in the GIR. You had tabled 467 amendments; the vast majority were package amendments. So much so that the proposing group itself will defend only 14 amendments today in this plenary. They're leaving on Route 453. No wonder they did, because the vast majority of them focused on certain issues. On the one hand, high-ranking salaries. On the other hand, the travel expenses of the various departments. They did not care whether these costs covered the movement of labour inspectors to companies to check whether compliance with working conditions was being respected. They also focused on the interest they have in reducing expenditure, where press and publications are purchased. To this extent, the obsession with this heading and its lack of criterion in establishing the division between the different departments, which you left 311 euros for a whole year, to the structure of Tourism and Commerce. Anyway! The interest they had – and there they also had a good amount – in the departments organizing courses in general is also null and void, although this serves to enrich their tasks, to improve their knowledge and to advance in the improvement of the public services they provide. If you add to this the indiscriminate attack on the parties of communication and publicity, even if they were intended for a campaign of awareness about traffic or the promotion of tourism, then the truth, aside from all that I am telling you, was little left of the alternative model of the amendments that you have tabled. A model which must be based, for example, on the fact that the promotion of industrial land for the settlement of businesses, which then generate employment, must be carried out only from the private initiative, which the public is not for that purpose. And – I say this in case you don't remember, because they have also left it on the road – they tabled an amendment to withdraw the funds of Sprilur, the public society dedicated to managing industrial soils, for the purchase of land and solar. For that, according to his model, zero euros, zero euros must be allocated. Let the free market act, let every new company or every new entrepreneur look for life, that for that we are not. That we are not mistaken in what we say is a faithful reflection of the fourteen amendments reserved for this plenary, which reflect the model budget of Podemos for Euskadi, for a small amount of EUR 14 million. Its model is reduced, according to what reaches this plenary, to put 700,000 euros more in Culture, 196,000 euros more in Education, 10,000 euros in Employment, 3 million in Housing, 4.8 in Health, and 5 million for the source of spread. The truth is, this trip didn't take so much carpet. They'd have had some money left. To be honest, the Socialists believe that in a revision of their approaches from a more solid basis there would have been greater scope for agreements, and in fact we do not rule out the possibility that in future accounts you can make contributions from the feet on the ground and not from the model you have drawn on your head or on your electoral agenda. Because it wasn't his electoral program that got enough confidence to govern, but it did get enough strength to influence. And that, influencing, requires an effort to find common ground, which, by the way, seems to have been easier for both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu to agree with the People's Party, to which 75% of the amendments they have tabled have voted. That's in front of the team that's running, which doesn't seem to want to vote for you. Unless today we have some surprise and in the voting we have some rectification of position. We'll be looking forward to it. The Socialist Group will not logically support the amendments tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos or EH Bildu. We have been justifying it one by one in the various committees that have been produced, we have given them a summary of our arguments and their models, and we will therefore approve the draft budgets presented with the incorporations made by the budgetary agreement with the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together the representative of the Podemos teams, Bollain and Hernandez have their word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u8	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, members of the legislature. First of all, we show our solidarity again with three people who are on hunger strike. We are already in the final straight of the approval of the Basque Government's budgets for 2017, and we see that nothing has changed. Moreover, the complicitys and fraternity between the neoliberal accord are becoming stronger and stronger. We predicted this brotherhood before the campaign of the autonomics, and reality does nothing but give us reason. I still remember when in campaign Mr Aitor Esteban repeatedly pointed out that an agreement with the People's Party was impossible. Today the greatest of the fears of Basque citizenship becomes reality: today the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party will approve the budgets at the hands of the most antisocial party of this House and of the whole Spanish State. Today the Basque Parliament will give green light to the Basque Government's budgets thanks to the gift of the People's Party, which, in order not to allow more social, fairer budgets, sells its vote cheaply to the worst bidder. We have already said this several times: this flirtation has neither the beginning nor the end in these Euskadi budgets. We cannot forget that night, in the spring of 1996, when Mr Anasagasti and Mr Major Oreja reached an agreement for the Basque Nationalist Party to facilitate Aznar's presidency of Spain, or how well they both understand each other when it comes to negotiating pharaonic works such as the high-speed train. Nor should we deceive ourselves or forget that the change of chromosomes continues around the corner, in the next derivative that will be the general budgets of the State. It is undeniable that between the "very complicated" and the "inviable", the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party have always been able to row together in favour of the economic elites. And why not continue rowing at the expense of the most vulnerable classes? The budget law determines the policy that a government will carry out in a calendar year, and in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community this 2017 budget law also determines the policy that the Basque Government intends to carry out during the 11th parliamentary term, as this is the first budget bill submitted during the year. Thus, the cornerstone that will determine the actions to be carried out by the Basque Government starts from a diagnosis very far from reality, being this an invalid, inadequate and unnecessary budget project in order to offer real solutions to the problems of Basque citizenship, a law of budgets with which we and we do not swallow. The Basque Government has been saying for almost two months that they are budgetless because of the economic situation, but that they are still growing by 1.2% compared to the previous year. And, as a popular saying of the Spanish language says, who makes the law cheats. That's why we have to explain to the public that the 2017 budgets do not grow for greater social justice where the most powerful this year will pay more, no, because the increase in revenues from the Euskadi budgets for 2017 is simply for a greater power of indebtedness that Mariano Rajoy and Cristóbal Montoro approved, thanks to the indisputable support of the Basque Nationalist Party. Thus, Euskadi's gross debt for 2017 grows by EUR 140.6 million, an increase of 11.4% over 2016, while revenues remain intact. We personally believe, from our parliamentary group, that it is intolerable that in an autonomous community where the forecast of annual GDP growth for 2017 is 2.5%, and where there is a capacity to generate and manage own resources, the space for spending has only increased by 1.2% thanks to a greater capacity for indebtedness, and thus mortgageing the future of Basque society and in general of Basque youth. We found ourselves in the middle of a negotiation process in which nothing served because everything was sold. The path to the stability pact between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party for the perpetuation of their nothing different economic models was opening up from the beginning of the legislature. And, despite the negotiations and even some pretty funny crossfire between the two parties, the objective of this legislature has become clear: that the Basque Nationalist Party can govern quietly and without having the left side of the parliamentary arch for four years, in exchange for perpetuating the stability of the Spanish right in Madrid for another four years. To condemn not only Euskadi, but the entire State, to a legislature of cuts, more austerity and precarious employment models. Allying with that party which the Basque Nationalist Party has practically labeled as the enemy of development for Euskadi (remember Mr Erkoreka talking about the "foot on the wall"), in order to continue to benefit the elites at the expense of the most disadvantaged layers of society, and to be able to continue trading with the competences and laws that we have to develop in Euskadi. All this with the support of a Socialist Party which, thanks to its tiny contribution to the budget, has facilitated even more that parties with neoliberal projects agree in just two weeks the budgets of an entire year, for which our vote is obviously negative. The set of partial amendments we tabled from Elkarrekin Podemos tried to follow the main lines of our proposals for content different from those presented in the budget bill by the Basque Government. A bill on continuous-cutting budgets, which perfectly reflects the neoliberal policies carried out in recent years by the Basque Nationalist Party. A budget bill in which no progress can be seen in social matters in relation to the wealth generated in the territory. The basis for the partial amendments that we have tabled since Elkarrekin, and which logically none has been accepted, are based on the following lines, on the following basic axes for a truly social budget. The first is an orientation of spending by criteria of social utility, that is, the elimination or reduction of that unnecessary, superfluous or with a reduced objective of being socially useful, as can be all that expenditure related to high offices, with advisors, with protocol, advertising and public relations expenses, locomotion expenses and expenses of stay, or computer expenses. You were talking before the TAV. Well, the items that we have removed from the high-speed train are the items of unwarranted overcosts and sections that are still unstarted, until an audit of the social and economic impact of the project is made. And we have used it not for social spending, for example, but, in an exercise of realism, we have used it for the improvement of the Basque conventional rail network. The second axis of our focus is the reduction in the use of outsourced expenditure and the derivation of the provision of public services to entities outside the General Administration or to bodies and entities that are part of the public sector. It is known that the increase in intermediaries reduces efficiency, and increases the expenditure and exploitation of workers. Outsourced spending opens the door to clientelism logics, and not to efficient management logics of the provision of public services. The draft budget law once again puts on the table that, beyond propaganda, the Basque Government does not seriously bet on the workers of the Basque public sector. The Basque Government has destroyed more than 21,400 jobs in recent years, resulting in excessive insecurity among the workers of the Basque administration, where today one in three is in interim. For example, in Osakidetza we find that precariousness reaches 34.8%, or in education 38%. High temporality as an instrument of privatization, with a parallel administration of more than 55,000 workers that from Elkarrekin We believe it must start to reverse. However, we do not understand how, without making a commitment to high-quality public employment, the number of senior posts increases by seventeen, increasing the number of posts by 12.2%, and the number of advisers also increases by 28%. We also felt that there was a need to cut down in part on the financial provisions for computer costs, in particular those costs which we have been able to determine to be used for private software licences. We understand that the Basque public administration must make an effort to invest in the local economy, in the economy of this country, and that happens, in our opinion, to invest in the development of the local free software economy in Basque. In this way, we eliminated those amounts with respect to private software that have equivalent tools in free versions. We also increased investment in the free software office, understanding that it must be the service that provides maintenance to these tools. And we were also betting for free software in public competitions for ad hoc applications for the Administration, so that the benefit of development is obtained by small and medium-sized local companies dedicated to the free software development industry, and not large multinationals and consultancies that, in addition to developing private software, are known for the low quality of their working conditions. The third axis was to strengthen the tools and resources for the social protection of working people and citizens in the worst situation. We are witnessing a bet from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for emptying the rights of content and ability to exercise them, and from Elkarrekin We understand that good budgets are those that protect and put people at the center. However, these anti-social measures leave aside the most vulnerable classes, thus chronizing the poverty of more and more people, placing them outside society, and treating them as mere percentages for the use of political marketing. The fourth axis is to strengthen intervention from a gender perspective throughout the budget, and the fight against gender-based violence. If we look at the amendments presented by areas, for Elkarrekin Podemos the budget that the Basque Government devotes to equality policies is insufficient. We believe that there is a great inconsistency between the discourse and the resources allocated. And we all know that the will is accompanied by resources, because only with intent are no concrete facts generated. We would really like the Emakunde Institute to have more resources, we would like all the autonomous departments and agencies to have more specific resources for equality, and we would also like to finish this legislature with budgets of the Basque Government with a gender perspective. The government has ten autonomous bodies, and Emakunde is the last penultimate in the ranking of the planned expenditure for 2017. The EUR 11 million earmarked for policies to prevent and eradicate violence against women is just under 0.1% of the total amount presented by the Government in this budget bill; it is an amount that makes us very seriously doubt the priority that you say you have towards equality policies. The fifth axis would be to strengthen our public services. When we talk about education, the truth is that sometimes we wonder what the Government understands by quality education. We would have liked that little increase in education to have been reflected in strengthening the public network, but budgets clearly show that the Department of Education continues to maintain two educational networks equally: the public and the private. Budgets continue to reflect that public education is not the Government's bet, it is not its priority. The Basque public school lacks a project, and from Elkarrekin we are clear that public education is the only one that can guarantee that the right to education is a reality, thus ensuring social cohesion. Basque education needs more resources, more resources allocated primarily to the costs of centres in disadvantaged environments, to meet the demands of the public network and to expand the public supply by 0-2 years. But let's remember that it's not only important how much you invest, but what and how you invest. That's why, from Elkarrekin We can make it clear: with public money, public education. In short, education is a public service whose ultimate guarantee must be the State. It is an inexcusable duty on the part of the public authorities to ensure a quality education that compensates for inequalities for all Basque citizens. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the public school and ensure that all networks take on the same commitments equally. We bet on an educational regeneration that connects with our way of understanding politics and society; an equitable, co-created and innovative education; a quality, comprehensive, secular and inclusive Basque public education. And in the area of health we have expressed with our amendments another model of management of Osakidetza and another model of distribution of resources according to the real needs of the people of our land. We do not understand, for example, the allocation of 124 million, in all OSI in Osakidetza, to services carried out by other external companies. They are outsourcings, privatizations, allocation to other health companies of care tasks or complementary diagnostic tests or external consulting. We do not agree that the Department of Health and/or Professionals, for Osakidetza's installed capabilities, are not prepared to develop, if not all, most of the activities assigned to external companies. We do not agree to allocate to the private sector the public budget of all of us. We do not agree with the supposed success of public-private collaboration. We believe that, on the contrary, international experience shows that in this supposed collaboration, the public sector always loses. In our management model, Osakidetza must follow the guidelines of the Health Plan, and must be placed at the centre of health promotion strategies. Another management model, another resource distribution model, another model of listening more to workers, citizens; less vertical. Another model of priorities, a more community-based and more effective model. Municipalities, social health networks, local health networks, social organizations and their partnership with the health system are essential to improve the health and well-being of citizens. There are too many pressures on health systems by multinationals in pharmacy, medical technology and consumer culture in the private sector not to strengthen the independent criteria of clinical work and health actions from the public sector. The sixth axis would be to strengthen culture and euskera. We are faced with a model of cultural management that only addresses a vision of citizenship as a passive consumer of cultural services and products. However, from Elkarrekin We believe that the cultural and linguistic policy that Euskadi needs must do what is necessary for participation to be its axis, starting from the budgets themselves. And that is where our partial amendments, which we put into the draft budget law, in the area of culture and Basque, focus, since what the Government has put forward, in our view, is totally inadequate, unjust and incapable of responding to the demands of the sector and of all Basque citizens. The seventh axis would be to support social spending and investment that has a multiplier effect on the creation of quality jobs, on the improvement of their conditions and quality, and to guide such spending and investment in the consolidation of an economic and industrial policy that can lay the groundwork for transforming the economic development model. Finally, it can also be said that budgets are mortgaged by the need to take a social turn in fiscal policy. Finally, from Elkarrekin We have made three amendments to the article that are consistent with the assessment and speech we have been making about budgets: we have to invest in people. The first amendment to the sixth additional provision is because we believe that it is necessary and urgent to reverse social cuts, which have never been justified. In 2011 the measure was taken to reduce the social benefits of the Basque Autonomous Community by 7%, a cut which has been consolidated year after year and which was taken as an exceptional measure based on the argument of the crisis. The crisis, according to its own growth forecast data, has been overcome, and in this 2017 we have a positive forecast, an increase of 2.5% of GDP. Therefore, we see no possible justification for maintaining this 7 % cut. However, since the accounts are the ones that are and the margin we have to square the data is limited, we propose through that amendment to reverse now 4.5% of the 7% cut in 2011, and to compromise for 2018 almost 3% remaining. The second amendment to the seventh additional provision is because we understand that until the process of consensual income-guarantee reform is completed, it is neither fair nor ethical to undertake a regulatory reform. Article 20 of the Income Guarantee Act clearly states that the reference for the calculation of the benefit is the inter-professional minimum wage, and therefore we do not see the need for an amendment of the law when in the framework of this Parliament it was agreed last 15 December to seek the necessary consensus to undertake this reform in a paused and shared way with institutional, social and trade union agents. And the third, to the eighth additional provision, is because we understand that, as we have argued in the first of the amendments, there is no point in maintaining a cut in a heading, an unfair cut. The eighth additional provision proposed a law amendment that was broader than the one currently in force, because it protected more. At a time when the average price of housing in Euskadi is more than 700 euros, it is necessary to make possible a framework of greater protection for people, and in particular for living units, usually families of more than two members. Thus, we propose to return to the original regulation, which set at 320 euros the maximum amount to be received of supplementary housing benefit for living units of two or more members. It is not – despite what is said to distort or misunderstand the discourse – an aidist bet or based on economic aid. And it is not, more than anything, for two simple questions. The first: GIR is not an aid, it is a right, and therefore it must be defended as such. Because we have not come to politics to allow rights to be dismantled while we observe in silence. And the second is that the rights, such as the rights of the Basque people to have guaranteed minimums for their social inclusion, go hand in hand with equality, justice and social cohesion. And we understand that with our amendments we are being consistent with that bet. From our perspective, quality in employment is essential, but, regardless of that, it is also essential to have a social policy that is based on social cohesion and that is based on the rights to guarantee a decent life for all people living in the Basque Country. In general, the result that we are not going to have today, and that by extension Basque citizenship is not going to have today, is the following: neither a more social budget, nor a more rational budget, nor a more equitable budget, nor a budget that is more responsive to citizens' demands. It was possible to adopt a more social budget without exceeding spending limits and without the need to owe the Basque Government, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the citizens and putting their needs at the centre of our work. And I repeat once again the phrase of Aitor Esteban in September 2016, when he said, "An agreement with the People's Party is impossible." And here, as Javier Krahe said, "And today to say that that alliance is of all confidence, even very convincing. What before is very bad, to remain all the same, and today to be excellent. White man speak with a snake's tongue." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u10	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I think I'll be brief within five minutes of our group. I am not going to refer to the amendments or to specific items of greater or lesser magnitude. I would like to talk about what is actually going to be approved at last, which are the budgets that have been agreed by the three parties sitting to the right of the House, among other things because any of the amendments that we had tabled from our group knew that they would be rejected by that agreement, where the People's Party demanded exclusivity. And, therefore, our group does not intend, with more or less amendments, to present what budgets we would make if we were to govern. For example, what we do know is that the budgets that will come out are the result of the agreement of these three parties, and are therefore a model that identifies not only the Government, but the three parties that support it. Three parties that define themselves differently, even very different ideologically when they talk about themselves, but which have surprisingly reached a quick, very rapid agreement on a question that is fundamental, that is the budgets, that should at least provoke a greater debate among those who supposedly think differently. Look, I have just been negotiating in the area of collective bargaining, in the trade union sphere, where what we intend to do is to reach agreements not only with those who think differently, but with those who think differently and seek in that negotiation objectives contrary to those that you have to go to that negotiation, and we know that when you intend to negotiate with those who think differently you can get to a good place if things don't get done in two days. In two days it's impossible. And I repeat what I said here two weeks ago: Mr Azpiazu sent us in two days, in two meetings. Very politely, I say it again, but in two meetings. And that is why we insisted that there was no willingness to try to negotiate with our parliamentary group. Because we, it's true, and I say it again, yes, we were demanding and we were putting a number of issues on the table; issues that, as everyone knows, when we are going to negotiate then move in the negotiation. But we knew, and it is corroborated, that the agreement with the People's Party was much easier, for two issues that I repeat again. One, because I maintain that ideologically you are not so different, and you also demonstrate this in the European Union, where you agree in almost all the votes. And another, because there was a cross of needs: the People's Party does not have a sufficient majority in the Congress of Deputies to approve the State Budgets, and the Basque Nationalist Party has first needed the Socialist Party to form government, and now the People's Party to carry out these budgets. We were insisting on talking about taxation, as I said the other day, because we continue to think that the taxation of this country, a country that has powers of taxation, continues to consist in the fact that taxes are mainly paid by the workers. And the measures we were proposing as regards taxation to you seem not to be welcome, because they say that we have a formula that is exceptional. But it turns out that our exceptional formula does not serve to debate the budgets, but, instead, we can have budgets with additional provisions..., that I will not be the wisest on these issues, but a second additional provision that carries cuts that were also intended for an exceptional moment, and we have been with them for a few years now. That is the contradiction of these budgets: that they do not dare with those who have the most, with those who earn the most, but instead they do dare with those who need it the most. Budgets that they maintain, that they will maintain an increasingly poor public sector. Why? Because they are budgets that follow the pattern imposed from the supra-state institutions on the countries of southern Europe, consisting of a tax burden based on workers, in the face of a tax laxity on businesses and capital incomes; a containment of expenditure and a decrease in the public sector in favour of private sectors, which also increasingly precarious the lives of workers. In other words, it marks a playing field for the accumulation of capital on the exploitation of workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u11	Finish up, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u12	Yeah, I'm done. I simply wanted to take this opportunity, on the eve of 14 April, to remind the women and men who defended the democracy and legality of the Second Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u14	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today we've got the last truncheon of 2017 in the parliament. I said tramite, because that's what it's going to be. Once again we shall see that the parties who have the budget vote, by strengthening their exclusive impact, will only yield to what is in this compact, and that the rights of the groups which have not made the budget have no opportunity of advancing. It doesn't matter if you have corrections to refresh health, education, and economic development. It doesn't matter. Today we will hear again that these budgets are the most social. A few weeks ago we heard the same thing from those presented by the Rajoy government. Will it be by chance? Let me doubt it. Very skillfully, you eliminate the more than 788 million euros of debt amortization, to make up (to make up, yes) the weight of social spending in these budgets. Because social spending is not something linked to the ethereal, but to concrete items. Social expenditure is to recover the working conditions of teaching staff in education. Social spending is investing in more staff in hospitals, or simply fighting, by law, for residences to have the capacity to keep our elders in decent conditions. In short, for a budget to be truly social, it is a question of genuinely meeting the needs of the society for which it is made. And this budget doesn't. It does not do so because it keeps in force the cuts in social rights that have been in force since the López legislature, with that cut of 7% of the GIR. And, even worse, it increases them by the back door, not only because it keeps the cut, but because it deepens in it through the non-application of the rise of the RGI linked to the interprofessional minimum wage since its implementation, and currently closely linked to the hunger strike that keep in the Plaza de las Mujeres in Bilbao people (yes, people) in this situation. It does not because our university is going to have to fit bubbles once again with a budget that does not recognize its role in the present and future of our country. It does not because in our hospitals and outpatient clinics professionals will have to continue to perform miracles to serve everyone as they deserve, given the lack of personnel. It does not because in our schools many boys and girls will return to classes in barracks, and because teachers will continue to have to supply their peers beyond reasonableness, because there are no substitutes. It doesn't because after big plans and much more artifice, too many people without finding a job, with a Lanbide that hasn't just ripped off and a bunch of entities that nobody knows for sure what they're doing. And so we could go on for a while. But, in short, what is clear is that these budgets once again follow the path of immobilism, resignation and waiting for better times. And it's not that I say it, it's that the words of Councilman Azpiazu himself at his first appearance in the Committee on Finance and Budgets did not give rise to any doubt: "After the reverse collection," he said, "last year, there's not much room for growth," and that "as a result of the deficit reduction path itself, the margin for 2018 and 2019 will also be particularly tight." Inaction, resignation and sadness. Inaction because in the face of this collectory setback, and after a connate by the councilman himself in favour of a tax reform that gives the Basque Government (in this case the Basque Government) sufficient means to develop the public policies that this country needs, they have again chosen to wait. To wait for the results of a tax reform that agreed, oh surprise!, those who today support this budget. A tax reform that has brought us up to now, to budgets with just 300,000 euros (300,000 euros) more than they expected from the collection in 2016. Taking into account this collectory setback, they expect to obtain almost 369 million euros more than the actual contributions of the deputies for the support of the common policies in 2016. The truth is that, after three years of non-compliance, it is difficult to believe that this year will be fulfilled. The truth is that, after three years of lying about the collection, it seems very clear that we will also have half the truths about the application of spending. And I said despair, yes. Despair, because this government has accepted the limits of deficit imposed by Madrid, although, unlike so many other authorities, it is possible to negotiate and agree. This year's budget is bigger than last year. Not from the positive change of the economy, nor from the active influence of public politicians on money affairs, but from the policy of taxing them. This budget has more resources for a truce from Europe. Only for that. Were not the ends established by Europe absolutely necessary? This is where the State of Spain fails, whilst it imposes upon us the limits of others. It's obvious to us that it's a serious matter in money troubles. The revenues of affairs must be sufficient, but not enough to leave things as they are, but to develop the Basque society and the Esscal economy, to satisfy the wants of the Basque society. And for that, you see, it comes from more than 80% of the stock funding, it's obvious that we're going to have to start the change to the prosecutor. But this government, the government whose finance advisor said "It is a priority to increase revenue collection, because the current evolution of revenue does not support the spending policies of the administrations", which "The time has come for an increase in fiscal pressure" (words of the councillor), has chosen as a travel companion to the People's Party, which, although it is parapeted after phrases such as "Do not raise taxes to the lower and middle classes", we already know what it does when circumstances allow it to develop its tax policy model. Because, as Mr Damborenea says, they are liberal, although I think the right thing would be to say neoliberals. What you do when you can develop your tax policy model is to benefit those who have the most, and hide, after phrases like "Money has to be in people's pockets," cuts in health, cuts in education, and cuts in social policies. Because, of course, when you do that there's no money for everything, there's only money for the usual, and there's only money for the usual. Because that's their model, that's their real end: to minimize the public sector, and to benefit friendly entrepreneurs. And, if this is what you want (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party), you have chosen very well, because in Euskal Herria Bildu instead we believe in a strong public sector that guarantees a more cohesive and fairer society. So these budgets show again how this government wants to change a little about its income. Your rights will be up and down, I know. The tax policy must be decided by the grand councils that the limits of debt and deficit are due to the policy of European stability... Yeah, I know, but don't cheat. Both in the one and the other, this government forgets its powers. Isn't this government in the Ega Coorion Organic? Isn't this government in the Bibet Committee of the Economic Concert Concertical Confederation, where are we supposed to terms for debt and defence? Yes, but in the first place there is this government, but in the first place, the most powerful may say no, after Confebask had formerly denied it, and in the second, after Mr. Montoro's distribution of the deficit limits of his own will, this government presents its wants as an agreement, and its political decisions, which are by no means satisfied with the necessities of this people. This time, again, "there are no more" has been the mantra of this government. "That it is true, that the rules ought to be fulfilled, and that we have also acted as others," has been his defense at all times. But this government knows that it has a choice to decide, to act on these rules, or to negotiate the application of those rules. But he'd rather wait, stay still and keep his hand on Madrid, pretending to be here. This country will lose another year, with a government which leaves another year to courage. And this time, too, in harmony with the aspect of caution, restrictions, and the denial of social rights in accordance with the characteristic of its political character. That's what we've got here today. That was the choice of this government. And the choice is not only to the budgets we have on our table today, but PP has remarked more than once that the main part of their agreement was in the policy of tax. And therefore, as I have said, with these companions, we expect nothing good in the form of a tax-form. Mr. Below, for the next few years, you'll be in trouble again. Another year more lost, another year more lost with conformist budgets and on this occasion agreed with the leading party in cuts, leader in austerity without limit and in the denial of social rights. The phrase "There is not for many joys" with these traveling companions can last you a few more years, Mr Azpiazu. But the saddest thing is that while you do nothing, or, worse still, you just fill out the file, there's a reality out there on the street. This really does not give much joy: 440,000 people, 20% of the population, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 15% more than in 2008 after major policies; among Basque citizens there are more than 105,000 people living on less than 541 euros a month and there are 80,000 people whose incomes do not exceed 332 euros, and there are still more than 140,000 unemployed among us. It is curious that we are in gross domestic product indices similar to those of the financial year 2008 and, on the other hand, there are 90,000 less active people. Moreover, 10% of jobs have been lost since the beginning of the crisis. But, yes, GDP seems to be doing very well. Tell him, "There's no more." Tell them "There is no more," say "Come back tomorrow" to all these people, to the more than 50,000 families with all their unemployed members, to the thousands of young people who are still unemployed, or to the almost 200,000 pensioners with pensions below the inter-professional minimum wage. You use macronomical data to cover this reality of individuals. We know the raw internal product is becoming better, but unfortunately, with your beauty, the beautiful ones you're bringing forward, this promotion is getting worse and worse, and the economy that comes out of the crisis leaves too many people behind. From this crisis we are increasing the differences and the social crack, and these budgets don't deal properly with this. We've been trying to direct this to the transmitation of this budget, both by partial corrections, and by placing the tax-reform on the table to solve basic resources, but these budgets have other priorities, this government has a different priority. The gathering of the Basque Country made it clear from the start three central axiss: As we were prepared to negotiate honest, to direct the lack of budgets, the reform attorney was necessary, seeing the difficulties of government to ensure sufficient incomes, and finally to reorganize the expenses of the budget. The Basque Country is responsible for other budgets. We have proposed clear and possible targets to promote social cohesion, to avoid social rupture, to ensure public social services, and to form columns for a balanced economic development. That, and nothing else, is the compass of our political activity. It is a proposition which aims at the welfare of society, to-day, but which has also been made to the future, in order to answer to the consequences of the crisis, to build solid foundations which will be essential to society for the next few years. From Euskal Herria Bildu we have submitted to this budget 294 partial amendments totalling EUR 607 million; amendments aimed at the management of expenditure on three basic axes: the economic axis (i.e. promotion of industry, R & D & I and employment), the axis of strengthening public services, and, of course, a clear commitment to social protection. Realistic amendments, achievable amendments, and responsible amendments. Amendments to some extent correct the shortcomings of this budget. Because it is clear that this budget is not Euskal Herria Bildu's, nor its priorities are ours, but we did think it possible to partially remedy these shortcomings and put these budgets also looking to the future and to the people who suffer the most from the pernicious effects of the economic policies of the People's Party. Amendments made from responsibility, from realism and from rigor. Amendments made for the clear purpose of bringing them to a good port. But it could not be, because your sadness, Mr. Counsellor, intoxicates all accounts. Because it is not just a question of giving an answer to these problems, to the problems of today; it is a question of laying the foundations for the future. In short, it is about building a fairer country. All of our divisional corrections have been rejected by the tribunist who protects the budget. They're out of 294. I wish to explain some of these to-day, which mark the great lines of our proceedings. To advance in the State, to strengthen the independence of this people: a study for the own system of pensions, a study for the financial euscal system, an EAE, Navarre, and an Interaction, or a diplomatic office in the international Basque Country. To promote the politics of equality, it is absolutely necessary that there should be money, and there is want. And especially the Integral Law against the Machista violence to make a thorough trial and strengthen the municipal plans. It is very well to say that it is a matter of concern, and that it suffices for the increase proposed by PP, but this country has a chance of conducting more money to co-operate, and of bringing it closer to 07% agreed in the national level. We've made a number of proposals for developing the development of this country and building the future. The rest, to guarantee the future of a research site, to create the fund for promotional promotion, to promote the development of the most needed districts, or to promote the honest wager for the most retractable energy, to direct the State to other strategic infrastructure (ports, airports or railways), and to transfer these resources. There's a lot to do in the field of Eplea and the social police. These are the corns which most concern society, and which are the measures to build for the present and to-morrow a more just and more cohesion. Hence we propose games to improve the profession, and to modernize, to reduce long-continued unemployment, or to increase the AES and RGIs, of course, because they are the moneys arrived at those who pass the wrong path. Education is one of the foundations of our society, and consequently the means which lead to education are essential to the EHG. So we propose to increase the teacher to anticipate money, both in Child and First Education, and to repair the needs of the Second Education. We propose to increase schools to improve and make new games of money, and in particular we anticipate money to publish La Milanrosa. And as it is also necessary to fight the social crack by education, we propose that it may be maintained for the low-house families and for the scholarships of small incomes. Health is also one of the foundations of our society, and therefore, to begin with employment destroyed for the last few years, we propose to provide for the improvement of service. In addition, we propose a budget to reduce the waitlists or to revoke the pharmaceutical remutations. Not forgetting, for instance, the need for several villages, the magnetic resonance to the Deba High, or the health center of the mill. In fine, it is still the way of euphora to become more and more eloquent; and therefore we propose to learn the cradle, and increase the resources of the Basque Sea. All these corrections have been the principal aim; To place these budgets for the welfare of society. It's a proposal made with complete realism and strictness to direct the lack of these budgets. We've been able to get ahead, honestly, but it wasn't possible. And it could not be because the government has opted for the People's Party, for an apparently cheap agreement, because for 29 million of the overall credit (i.e. 29 million of the money that had no specific purpose) they will be able to carry out unaltered budgets. And so we were moved: the PP was willing to the agreement without excessively altering the budgets. Because that is what we have here today on the table, budgets where the balances between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have not been altered. These are the budgets of the tripartite to Madrid: budgets where the callos are the main menu for all of you, and the savannahs are for the Basque citizenship that is there on the street. Budgets where coffee for all becomes a watery cut, because the distribution is between the usual and without taking into account at all the needs of the Basque popular classes. The budgets of a government that wants to transfer its sadness to the rest of the citizenry, but that previously pays favors without fainting. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in these budgets we see again items for similar foundations, for associations of the environment of the signatory parties, or to finance ordinary works of municipal competition in villages where they govern, or at least aspire to it. Once again we see how without any rigor, without any rigor, simply by contenting the party with which the budgets are agreed, there is money for choirs or regional houses. And once again we are told that there is no money for everything, that it doesn't give any more, that the box doesn't give any more. But, on the other hand, there is for issues that are not within the competence of this Government. Today, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party are going to push forward the 2017 budget, a budget without ambition, because this government has actively renounced being an actor when it comes to obtaining the resources needed to develop public policies that Basque society really needs. Budgets to get out of the way, with no vision of the future, and sharpened by the political needs of a minority government. Budgets that unfortunately bring us closer to the policies of the Spanish State and the IMF than to the working people, genuine pagans of their policy of economic sadness. But we couldn't expect anything else. We could not expect anything else, when they are budgets supported by the two parties that have ruled in Madrid alternately, two parties that have led the State to exhaustion and social policies to wire. These first budgets of the law do not show the right way, and if we proceed this way, without dealing with the means of resource, without making the bold measures to the funds, this government will have serious problems in developing budget policy. And we'll have to hear again that next year there's "the latest" and that there's no margenic for too much fun." Mr Azpiazu, governments – Mr Urkullu is not, I cannot address him – get out of your sadness. Get out of your economic sadness, and try to understand that it's time for you to look at this country at once, and not look out. In spite of the People's Party or the Socialist Party, the problems of Murcia are not the problems of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Or maybe so, and that's why you've signed an agreement? Mr Azpiazu, from Euskal Herria Bildu we want to show you that we can agree on policies for the distribution of wealth, for the strengthening of our economic fabric from budgetary questions. For this we will be here again at the end of the year (because it will touch us again at the end of the year, Mr Azpiazu), telling him that if he comes out of that sadness, that if he starts thinking about those who suffer the most, that if they start thinking about the future of our country, we will be willing to reach out to them again and even squeeze them hard this time, so that together we can regain the joy of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, members of the legislature. You said we're growing up, Mrs. Pindo, and that's where I'm going to begin. Our staff, and as I well know, is one of the greatest interests of fun fighting this social crack, and the previous discussion, we read it here, but if you hadn't heard the "Encuesta de poor people" that just left, I'll tell you again when you're out there in 2016: "E e e-14-2016 se rompe el risgo de solidación de la ámica de Mvilidad desendente Euskadi." Se rompe tell her ámica. I know it's one of the biggest cares of fun, and that's why I've had to start this discussion today. I would answer to Mr. Herndez. You said it was very easy to get this agreement around the budget, and I'd tell you that the agreement that's been made has been made around the budgets that belong to the centre, and that's made it easy. A budget that is located in centrality and that actually makes possible an agreement between ideological options and different parties. A budget which also has absolutely clear priorities, which are to maintain, consolidate and improve, to the extent possible, the Basque model of social protection, and as the highest priority of the legislature to combat unemployment, to achieve more employment, and to this end to adopt measures conducive to the economic revival of Euskadi. Then, later on, we will be able to analyze tax data in relation to what you were saying that here the most working people are the workers. You remembered that it came from the trade union sphere, and if I may say that I am forty-seven years old, I have been in politics since I was forty, and I have been a trade union delegate elected for more years by my colleagues than a politician. I don't know where you think we're coming from. All of us, like you, come from that civil society, from that people who then chose us. Mr. Bollain, I'll come to you. You said we should hear people. The greatest and most comprehensive poll that's made in Euskade is elections and I'll remember the results we've won in the elections we've chosen here. Listen to the voice of the people, for here were thousands of people talking: The Galultarian Party obtained 398.168 votes, EH Collectors and Podemus more than you did together. We came to the elections while I was in New York, and from Christmas to New Year's Eve, we came to a project, and then we came to the elections on a plane and a government program. And these were the results that we succeeded later. Besides, we obtained more members of the legislature than three of the members of the legislature. So listen to the town, listen to what the town says and don't be "de Spalas a la realidad social," de Spanish a lo que la genus reclama." The people saw it in the preceding law from our legal team and from this fun, when the same leader was there, and many of their equals, what was done and what you saw was done. And again shall I say: "Neestro grupo parlamentio logró un asko más, su grapo parlamentio logoró esños menos." "Escuchen pueblo, y san believers los no actúen de Spanish a la sociedad." Mr. Bollain, I've been following you. You have already said, that although I look over the "los ejes de vuestro proyecto" and correctives which you have kept for this discussion, I have been watching the corrections you have been keeping while you were talking, and you have come here without the axes, because they are not here. Aipatu izan duzu, beate baterako, "we want to eliminate the derivation to external entities", eta begiratzen hasten naizenean zuek maintaindu dituzuen zatikako zuzenketak, ba euretariko hainbat justu aldrebesekoak dira: Department departure 08, Health, 23889, other services, a million euros more. Part 23609, Section 06, Finance and Economics, €30,000 more. External services... Denak. Beste bat: Section 04, Enplegua eta Gizarte Politikak, Exterior services, cabin 23891, 10,000 euros Gehiago. Section 07, Hezkuntza, Other Foreign Services, 23899, 50,000. Konturatzen zara kontraesanez beta zabiltzatela, ezta? You remove it, and say that you wish to take it away from them, and that is just the small part of the division which you have kept, there are few who have been introduced to you, and you are just directing them to foreign services. You're talking about precoction, equality... I don't see that. Nay, I would say that, apart from the correction of those who have been introduced to articulated here, if all other corrections were added, the agreement of which would be cheaper than that agreement which we have obtained at the Populargare, which in the end you have only kept within 15 million dollars. I think, then, that you have a proposition and propositions full of contradictions. You said you didn't come to politics to allow them to cancel or break the system that's been used to protect society. Bollain, but who, among others, do you think has set this system of social protection in motion, along with other political parties? Podemus? Together, Poedemus, Bollain? We didn't see you. We didn't see you. How can it be said that in years and years, the leaders of the organizations and the collective commitment to the people, you've come together, thank goodness, that you've come to maintain it? I believe that a little modesty in this sense, and that what has been said is well done, and that what has been done has some authors to be admitted. And for the time being, I'd say you weren't there. You've mentioned the differences between women and men around your lines, and we told you before that there's a clear engagement for you to continue working on that road. In the budget, you mentioned that there are 11 million euros games to fight against machista violence. In the budget, as you've seen it, it's been mentioned that you've never been able to do it and that's how it's supposed to be all over your budget making 22 million dollars effort for the basis of equality. And you should consider two things. On the one hand, our fellow-citizens are divided into three different orders: The funk, the mushrooms and the town campers. And that every one should consider the effort they make to do it. And on the other hand, I shall set you to examine in other places, and in some of them your political protection, in other societies, where they have had political protection from Poseidon, what endeavour has been made, or in what manner it has been reduced. You've been talking about development and jobs, and that's not what you're doing, and we've just met a plan about four years before, about 8.800 million dollars. In it, a specific job plan is made, a specific line of encouraging employment for young people; it will increase 5% of the annual budget for research, innovation, development, and development; and this compromise is taken, although it has been more effort this year, and it has been 6%. The measures of support for small corporate and middle-termnational companies are formed; the improvement of intelligent specialization means for the fourth industrial organisation; the preparation for the production of small and digitalizing enterprise; And the expected goals are to push 45,000 jobs, creating new 6000 companies that are supported, new financed 100 new research projects, 1,200 small and ertal companies aided by foreign marketing, 1, 2,200 small, mediums supported by their modernization and expansion projects. Would you like more precision, Bollain? Where are your particulars beyond your discourses and round words? The details, what they're going to do, and what they're hoping to get. About health and education. You mention that our health system in your discourses is becoming more and more damaged. We've just met, at the end of February, when we are at the end of the European Union, the Computance de Computividad Regional. You know as well as we do the data from the European Union's Regional Competitiveness Index, which was presented by the European Commission at the end of February, what data are being drawn or what conclusions we can draw. And the reality is that, by analysing the competitiveness of 263 European regions, we are at 119 overall, but we are in the twelfth position, with better scores, in health and in education. And if we are in the 119th position, it is, among other things, for two issues. One is because of the infrastructure deficit – and all that I am telling you, you have it in the competitiveness report, you can read it –, because of the infrastructure deficit, not because of our health system or our educational model, because precisely those are the ones pulling up in the position. And in the infrastructure deficit one of the deficits we have, because other regions have developed their infrastructure in that sense, is in the question of the new Basque railway network, on high-speed trains. Probably, when we finish the investments and run the new Basque railway network our level of competitiveness in relation to infrastructure will be better, and the overall position will be better. But do not make the speech in relation to health and education in this respect, because it is not us, it is the European Commission's indicators that place us in the twelfth position, which we really believe is a position to be highlighted at European level. I'd say the same to EH Collect. We have stated that as to the amount of money which would have been agreed on by the division of Podemos, they are only 15 million. But you, too, to promote the Euskian Railroads with only one ticket for the Spanish profession, for long-term unemployed, for restructurings of energy, for DBH, Children, and the College of Education, to reduce the list of waiting for Osarists to promote small trade... All this would be less than 29 million. And you'd have been able to get a significant improvement into the budgets if you'd been realistic. The spokesman, Mr. Egibar, who would like to discuss the full corrections of the whole system, turns us away from that debasska of the high-speed train of Y, and, in some way, if we want to be able to get some proximity between us, we must, in some way, enter the circle of compact discreparences. Otherwise, until that's done, we'll have difficulty in getting to some of our agreements if you always bring that in. "Then you will have to enter into the circle of reflection what you were told before, and once more what is repeated to you from our legislative body. You've mentioned three specific proposals from the EHG to agree to the "No" and "no" to the "no" and "no." We've heard this from you several times, both here and here in the parliament, in the articles, expressions, and all that you've been able to get out of the streets. There were three of them: "definance will," "fis quality," and " deep changes of expense," he speaks. As far as I'm concerned, I've heard and I've read that you're telling me to come over to you without waiting for us to negotiate with you. It's not like that, it's not like that! Our GUKNS and our leaders have also talked about yours. So don't say it like that. Here hath there been a clear will, a clear will, and many of you have been told: If you believe that there is a clear will to be shut off from our legislatures and from the Jeltzac Party of the U.S.C.s. to extend the proceedings of negotiation by all the legislatures, and the negotiation process will begin with the number and the small members of the community. These were the terms given for the negotiation process: no one will be left outside, the conditions will be the same, and, as far as the subject is concerned, we shall begin with the legislature which has the greatest protection. That's how we did it and that's how we started. And you said: " Believe me, it is this political will, and it is more desire." And the first condition you said to get one thing is that you can believe it, otherwise it's not possible. And that's what you're doing. to place conditions in order that it may not be attained, to prevent obstacles, and so to arrive at the last stage which you have foreseen at the beginning. That's what you wanted. And here Mr. Egibar said: the first move, as far as the budgets are concerned, was seen from the member of the Population Party. This is when Mr. Alonso said, "You have our political will to protect the budget." We all started bargaining on this first process, and something happened in the middle of it, and your will changed. Yes, Mrs. Irriart. Yes, Mrs. Irriart, that's how it was. And it's not something Mr. Ortubes and Mediaville said. The other day our spokesman said to you, I will show you: Lord Muñoz said, after Ortuzar and Mediavilla said: "O sera, que Ortuzar tenía razón y beleevers buscaron perasdir a EH Collect Para rechazar laentas vascas?" "I don't know. And his answer was: "Ortuzar creyó, a dior del accerdo de presupustos en Álavata, que podía convencer a EH Collector" (and that's true, we thought of that in the Jeltzanian Party.) We thought that Araba's agreement was a handle to something of yours.) And he answered: "Y cudo vimos eso nos movimos." This is the little Muño who shows up here. He's little Muño, and that's the worst of it, if you know what your big problem is?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u18	You're short of political gratification, political donation. Always in someone's service, always in someone's... And if ye will do politics, ye must do it boldly, taking care. And sometimes the decisions I have made will be right, and sometimes they won't. And you have to take responsibility. When he's doing well, he'll be all right and you'll be satisfied with the decision he's made, and when he's going wrong, no. But that's what happened here. And we say: "How can it be done? "It is true that we saw the handle of the AUBA in the circle of their rights, and from the political side, "We are ready for it. What we have agreed on in the Agra, we are prepared to take to other areas." And suddenly it was not enough for us to accept what we agreed on in Aran. You said yourself, Mr. Casanova, here in the parliament, "He wasn't enough." What is it then? What security could it be if a joke or any organization should agree to anything about you, if that agreement is taken in three months? We get an agreement in the Aldandian of the Arabs and he's stuck in three months and he's not enough? What stability does it give him, what stability? That's what happened. As far as the district of promissity is concerned, as far as the prosecutor's department is concerned, you say progressity. If you look at it, between $16,000 people who get twenty-thousand- euros down, it's the least they pay. Here 16,000 euros are paid by intermediates 1,366 per person, and in Navarre, for instance, after a change of exchange, the change which we have made has been effected, at 1.491. Twenty thousand Euro down here, 2.237 euros per person, and Nafarro, after a change, 2.487. I'm not going anywhere else. But, in Valentian, for instance, Mr. Bollain, you've been protecting him in some way, Estrema, Castilla-La Mancha, I'll put others on you: 2.329, Valencia, Estregation, 2.428, Islamares, 2.382... all of them pay more. As for the collection, failure is mentioned, but the investigation of the whole series would be necessary. In this part of the community, in 2016, there was a collection of money from 12,5520,000 euros; 2007 was the most successful in the history (the result of an hour's results was not the result of reality. And this also ye know well; and then the collection was made of thirty-772 euros; and after this there was the chief collection of money in 2016. 13.025. During the course of history, in one year, the collection was more extensive, the result of the bureaucrat. So let's not take the collection as a small one. Against the prosecutor, you mention that nothing is done. Between 2011 and 2015, there were 4.648 million people who came out of the hands of manual institutions. And in the last year, in 2016 (we have just discovered the data), the fraud of 789 million euros has been discovered. It's just that you want to make a speech, that you have another socionomous example and an alternative, and that you defend it. And there is this in your discourse, but there is no more to be said of it. It's all you have. And that's why you have to take the maximal attitudes and defend them. Zuen balyzko, balyzko neuke... That so-called alternative socio-economic model is full of contradictions. Full of contradictions, and it is absolutely complicated for you to take it to the realm of concreteness. You have to maintain maximalistic positions, because only in your head and in your speech, as you have already remembered, there is such a big difference in the socio-economic model. Les voy a poner cupot ejemplos: that the relationship between a private public, the scope of public employment, the springs of debt and deficit limit, and the profound change of the tax system. Publiko-pribatuaren haremanaren inguruan. In relation to the public-private sphere, and what you say should not be resorted to outsourcing and prevent the development of many public policies that from this government, for example from the health field, from the public health sphere in some hospitals are being done, are full of contradictions. I have been a councillor at a town council run or governed by Bildu, where the cleaning service was carried out..., it was outsourced, with an external company; where roads were cleaned, snow was removed and minor works were done with an external company; where the equipment service was done with external services and an external company. And you are making life impossible and preventing many public policies of this government from developing around. That's hypocrisy. You say more public business. I think you mentioned 40,000 more officials in the Basque Country in the document. When we got the chance to get the government firm, you put 20,000 on the table, I think, and this time you're making a new job of 1200 for 2017 budgets. And in the meantime, as also in the case of the legislature, you present two other legal proposals. One that was introduced to Mr. Azuga this week. That's what you're asking for. "The New Year's Bill asks for joy on the 206th edge of his announcement. "A promotion" to stop doing this public business. The other was introduced by Mrs. Rebeka Ubera: "The Parliament has not agreed to the Board of Education, and happily demands that the calling of the public office of education which has been announced may be postponed. How is it possible, the condition for budgets, that what you have to get is 1,200 jobs where two illegal proposals will not be present? Contradiction, contradiction! You say one thing and you do another! The suppleness of the owen and deficiitt. We heard Mrs. Pindo's speech. We should use more tenderness. What do you want me to remember, when you were here in the Fordun of Gipulia, what strict measures did Mrs. About your debt and your deficit border. They're the same people here. And a deep change in the tax system. I've lost time, but I'd like you to mention this for a minute more or I'll stay in the second round. That big difference in taxation that you said, the change of model... For I have here the two agreements that the Basque Nationalist Party has adopted, the most recent, on this subject: in the context of the General Councils of Álava, with you, the Government of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and which we have also agreed the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi with the People's Party. And I'm going to read them. Bildu's says... Well, I didn't have to say, to let you guess which one is from whom, and if you noticed differences, but, well, I got in. Bildu says: consolidation of public police through economic reactivation and employment generation, territorial balance and social policies; they will not be able to reduce the collection; they will not be able to deharmonize the tax system, and he says: "The fiscal pressure of the middle classes will not be increased." And the agreement with the People's Party of Taxation on the budget of the Basque Government says: "Taxation must have two complementary objectives; on the one hand, it must obtain the necessary tax resources to finance expenses and investments of the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities, and on the other hand, it must promote economic growth, investment and job creation, stable and of quality, especially for Basque youth". Same thing. He says: "Any approach to tax reform must include a broad agreement that does not bring a drop in revenue to middle and low incomes."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u19	Please stop...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u20	Here too, the tax burden will not be increased to middle classes. Same here, only you're down as well. Thank you for your generosity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing the answers, representative of the Popula Party or of the Basque Groups, Mr. Damboreea has the word. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I had some doubt, but after this last intervention it has become clear to me that the most social and sensitive with the most disadvantaged classes are us. But good. [[Barres]] We have been called antisocial, we are in favor of economic elites, we are those of cuts, leaders in cuts... And at least I am surprised, because – as has been said before – of the amendments that we have tabled, at least a dozen were adopted unanimously, and more than 75% with the vote or the favourable abstention of one of the two groups. Therefore, 75% of our amendments were good enough or social enough, or were not in favour of economic elites... Or I do not know exactly what has happened to you so that you can practically approve the amendments that we had agreed with the Basque Government. Mr Bollain, you say to us, "We have not come to politics to dismantle rights." Let me doubt it, and I'll tell you why. Because others who are already, or were, those rights that you defend so much, we create them. Yes, yes, you will excuse me, but we believe them, yes. Even when it was not called "income guarantee income" but "insertion wage". Long time no see. Yeah, yeah, we made them who we are. Because, I'll tell you, you weren't, but there were people here on this bench who were, who weren't voting. And they didn't vote for it either, that I do remember. And that law that you defend so much today we vote for..., I reminded you the other day too, but we voted for it by the Socialist Party and us. So, I don't know if they've come to dismantle rights, but rights can be dismantled economically if unsustainable economic approaches to citizenship are made in the medium and long term. And that is what happens to the approaches that you have made to us. I'm going to take a little face off the counselor, if you don't mind. [[Barres]] Because, of course, we made a pact here at two meetings, and they did it in Madrid... we didn't meet anything... and it was also very cheap the pact and so on. Well, anyway, I don't know how many meetings you've had; we more than five, I don't know how many calls, and various emails. Because I can also tell you that we are in the age of technology: in addition to meeting, documents can be exchanged between more than two people. And the cheap thing... Look, twice as many of the amendments you have kept! I say to put it this way, regardless of the text we put forward in its day. And Mrs. Pinedo says, "The most social, because they're the ones who spend the most money, and Mariano Rajoy says the same thing"... Well, man, it's supposed to be... So far, when I listened to you, the "more social" was measured by the money that was being spent. So these budgets are the ones that spend the most money to date on social matters? Yeah. Even in the RGI, and that's what went down the unemployment rate. They're the ones who spend the most. And those of the Government of Spain, too, are the ones who spend the most. I feel like it bothers them, but that's the reality. Then you'll have to see if you're spending well or badly, if you're managing well or badly. Because, of course, when you tell us... I heard you, we seemed to be in a developing Third World country: kids go to class in barracks, well, and health is a disaster... Education is clearly better, but do we have a problem with missing teachers, or missing children? Because that's either the question we had to ask ourselves, or the question we had to start here! Are there really teachers missing, or are there children missing? Sure. Is it any better? It's better. In education, following that mantra they give us, we are the ones who spend the most on education. Do we have the best education? Well, of course not, right? The PISA reports said so! We're the ones who spend the most, and we don't have the best education. Is it better? Yes, and we have also raised it here. And tell me about Murcia's problems. I don't know what trouble the bats have, but I do know what we really have here. And you announced it in part, but you didn't mess with it. And that's why we repeated a long time ago and I'm going to repeat a speech that we've been making a long time. You said it, we've lost 90,000 jobs. And I can add: industrial and quality, good ones. The good ones. And maybe some trade union centers would have to have wondered whether some were salvable or not, but it's the same. It's the same, because that's not the point. And that is the problem that we have, of course, the creation of stable and quality jobs, of the good, for many years. And the other day I was giving the data here on December 31 of last year: more companies have gone from the Basque Country to Madrid than those that have come here; they bill much more than... There have been three autonomous communities that lost businesses, in which the balance was negative: one was us, another was Navarra, since you ruled, and the other is Catalonia. They are the three autonomous communities in Spain that have lost businesses and employment of the good in their autonomous communities. And when we talk about stability and that we have to attract investment, and when we say that in Ireland taxes are much cheaper and there are stable quality jobs, and many have been created, and when we see that the young Basques, those who everyone says are the most prepared in history, who obviously are, if they want to look for a stable, quality and good job they have to get out of here, because there are no jobs created for them, that is the priority that we raise. But we've been saying it for many years. And the problem we have next is that of birth. That's why I was telling him. Do we need more teachers? Hey, we need more kids! Just as teachers begin to be left, if we continue at this rate, and perhaps, look, because we were saving in education, but it would be bad news, for example, that saving. And that is therefore the priority that we have in these budgets, that is the priority of the policies that we have put forward from the beginning, which are support for families and job creation. Now, I also tell you one thing: it is complicated and complex to attract businesses and jobs to politically unstable sites, or to budgetly unstable ones. And it is no coincidence that communities where nationalism is very important, therefore, are not precisely a focus of attraction for companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u24	Elkarrekin's spokesman told us that nothing has changed. Of the 495 amendments, we still have fourteen. Something's changed, something. He was telling us about a brotherhood, a neoliberal agreement, an antisocial party... Man, I don't know, I don't think you've heard me. He has not listened to me: 75% of the proposals made by the People's Party to approve the budgets of the Basque Government have been supported either by you or by EH Bildu. Something does not fit, in that need you have to arm the speech, with what you have done in the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs when the votes were held. What's more, I thought I heard some spokesman say "money for choirs." Oysters! Review the Journal of Sessions, revise the votes, which voted in favour! They thought it was a good idea, and they supported it. It is one of the amendments which was not rejected! I'm gonna have to check it out. I don't know if you guys were tired and didn't control your votes anymore, did you? What is happening is that it is difficult to defend a budget debate with only fourteen amendments reserved, and in the end we have to make sentences of five hundred, which is a bit of what the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos has dedicated himself to. The same sentence per sentence you get to improve the government's revenue and gives us for more spending, because, of course, from the detail of your intervention we will not get it. I was talking after little input. Jo, the truth is, it's been hard for me to hear it without making big gestures, because you should look in the mirror when you leave the house. You brought me here fourteen amendments, eh! In this plenary there is no more discussion than these fourteen amendments which you have decided are the ones that change and solve the problems of the citizens of Euskadi. These, not others. These. You've decided that you are. If I wanted to say others... Because he started me talking about axes... Oh, my God! I have started counting axes and I say: but if there are more axes than amendments! Where are the axes of Podemos? Certainly not in this plenary. That you're wrong? I don't know. That we've convinced them? I don't know. That they didn't have enough packaging to be able to defend everything they had done at first? Well, it could be, too. But what they've brought is this. Adher to this, which is the only thing that is being debated and voted on today in this plenary. And he tells me that you have to do a realism exercise, that you have done a realism exercise, and he tells me about the TAV. Listen, for I have not had to be clear: that the money of the TAV – and I do not say it to you, read the reports accompanying the budget – you cannot use it for anything else, for nothing, neither for the railway, nor to live... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just for that. It's a money that comes conditioned to that. So, okay, I know you need to add up to say that you've made an important mobilization, but you know that's not true. Don't be fooled or fooled, that's not necessary, is it? I liked one thing about you, and it's that you've spoken in the past, it says "we bet." It must be that that's what happened, they were betting from the process that this started to the one that we finished today. Because a second spokesman went out to explain some question and said: "I do not come here to talk about the fourteen amendments that have been brought to this plenary". Man, I already understand that if I were you, too, it would cost me quite a lot to come here and defend fourteen amendments of 14 million to a budget of 11.059, I recognize that, but the truth is that I do believe that it is necessary for us to remember what we can say in this plenary for us to vote, to modify the government program, to have listened to the citizens and to solve their problems. And it is that here it was approved that we put 700,000 euros more in Culture, that we put 196,000 euros in Education (solvented the theme of education), 10,000 euros in employment (I do not want to tell you, for what you have come here to say), 3 million in Housing, 4.8 in Health, and 5 million in ESS-Bilbao. With this, with these amendments, his model is incorporated into the draft budgets of the Basque Government. That is what you have reserved for today's plenary session. That's not anything else. Speeches, whatever you want. The questions you've made? The fourteen amendments, there is nothing else. Well, EH Bildu. That of EH Bildu exclusively... because to say that social budgets, and we certainly believe that they are, that the needs of citizens are met. Social expenditure items have been expanded, and you know that this is the case: GIR, CPV, AES, health, education, employment... That they could be expanded further? Still, but they've expanded. You've expanded, and that's something you can't deny. I'm funny when they say we use data to make up figures. For I have already told you before you went out to speak in this rostrum, that you precisely use TAV and public societies to make up what is your model, that model that does not exist and that cannot be sustained unless you attack what is TAV and public societies. And it's incoherent. It is incoherent that you tell me about public employment, tell me about quality in public employment. The PNV spokesman reminded you, but I think it is necessary for you to know that you here have proposed to delay public job offers in the Department of Education. Come on, the security thing seemed to me to be coming late, after the amendments they have tabled, 25% for security, which does not even need us to buy pants... Well, if you don't need pants, you won't need agents. So, that, look, it doesn't seem so incoherent to me. But I find it very incoherent what you talk to me about in Education, and then you propose to delay a public job offer. Well, that's kind of what you have when you have to make a speech, isn't it? Speech, but under that speech there's not so much. You tell me about tax reform, the big issue. This is something we will, of course, continue to talk about outside the budget debate, without the urgency of filling in the way we justify our position here, etc. A tax reform that at the moment has allowed for 11,059 million. Well, a collection and some calculations that something's up to them. I say that out of those calculations of those three years you know that something is up to you, because you were in an outlaw parliament in which you were accepted, you approved some calculations. I mean, finally, this throwing the stone and hiding the hand is something we've been listening to those of us who've been in outlaws in the last few years, but, man, you assume that within that conjugating figures were also you. And don't get nervous about launching a tax reform, or justify today's stance on what might happen tomorrow, even though you don't even know what it is. Just in case, I'm wearing the bandage today. How do I have to justify that I'm going to say no... Finally, the easy thing will be when we can debate here, apart from what this budgetary area is, what the income issue means. And be calm, because it will, because the conviction that we have by the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of what fiscal policy means, that instrument to guarantee public services, social protection... , will make it possible for this Parliament to discuss and to discuss what the next fiscal measures will be, which will lead to outlaws, to historic territories. All I'm saying is... You have told me – and with this I think I am going to finish and conclude – that you were making realistic, achievable and responsible proposals. I think I have told you that you have abandoned on the way, how many, some 200 amendments? They would not be so realistic, they would not be so achievable, they would not be so responsible, because they do not defend them in this plenary. And to this full comes what comes; a little bit longer than that of Podemos, but you do not believe that much more, eh! Yours is just this. This is what we're talking about today, because like two-thirds, there's nothing else. These are the budgets of the Autonomous Community with all its items, which you say we give coffee for everyone. Well, we give it for plenty, for plenty of coffee. But you prefer to stay in your speech, in that speech of the no (if you do not agree, that certain items intended for social protection cannot be increased...). And you ask me if I eat the calluses and others I leave the savannahs. Ask yourself what you are doing when you vote against all these budget items. They say they'll have time, that we'll have time to reflect. Look, apply the story, and have time to reflect now. And of course not to get out of the sadness, they do not need to get out of the sadness, but from the comfort in which they find themselves from the no for the no. They have a chance to do it by the end of the year. I mean, you don't have to stay in the trench. Cheer up, jump and get out, let's go. I'll tell you it's not so cold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Mr. Bollain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u26	Yes, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I was going to start with Mrs. Castelo, but, as you told me you're coming right now, I'll be a little late on what I have for her. Mr Damborenea, you said that those rights, referring to the minimum income of insertion, created you, the ones present here. I believe that it is not true what you say, and that those rights were created as a result of the protest and social mobilization, and were improved thanks to a general strike and an ILP. But I don't think you should forget the influence those actions had, although, as we see, they do, and they put on a medal that doesn't belong to them. There you are with your conscience. We knew that they would come to question and try to delegitimize our work, and we knew it from the very beginning, when in the negotiation they barely listened to us. Have we made a mistake, Mrs. Gorospe? Yeah, I'm sure we are, but we're not the only ones. We're not the only ones. They tell us about responsibility and little realism, but I wouldn't like to miss the opportunity to ask you why there is a EUR 150,000 allocation for the Gaia programme of the Bizitza Berria association. We have eliminated those 150,000 euros, but is it a good management item to finance this year a social entity that was doing an essential job but that is now extinct? You also said in the plenary on 30 March – I quote in text – "By the way, Mr Martínez, you said that the dining rooms, transport, cleaning, go down. Yes, they go down, because the bids have been smaller, not because the service is smaller. Not because the service is minor. The issue is not paying more for paying more, but that management is good." It is clear to the Basque Nationalist Party what good management is: to lower tenders, which will cause companies, in order to maintain profits, to lower wages, which will lead to an increase in the level of effort of workers; therefore, it will increase their level of exploitation, especially that of women workers, because we are talking about widely feminized sectors. We know who is content with this pact, and we also know that you will have to bear it. You also said, Mrs Gorospe, in the plenary on 30 March: "The Basque Government offered you 25 million euros to reach a pact. Many of the proposals that you were putting forward could have been accepted, could have been paid with that amount. They could have paid them, a lot of them." We have already said from the outset that we would be demanding with the interests of citizens and of the popular classes. It is clear that we and we are not the People's Party, and also that we and we do not understand the political debate and the debate on the content of budgets as a simple fish auction. It turns out that for the Basque Nationalist Party the limit is 25 million euros, and the first party that comes closer to this figure and accepts the offer is the one that supports it. The Basque Government has accepted budgetary amendments of EUR 29 million, representing only 0.26% of the total amount of the budgets. For us and for us, as we say, the debate on the contents and management of the budget cannot be an auction where, if you give me 29 million euros to spend on my things, I abstain, and I give the approval to a budget – as I recall – in which between what the People's Party has invested is also, among other things, to grant 60,000 euros to the Foundation Popular of Basque Studies, or aid for its only three fiefdoms in Euskadi, such as 1.3 million to Laguardia, 0.95 million to Navaridas, and 1.05 million to Baños de Ebro. I don't like to look at Spain, but you've talked about Valencia, the Balearic Islands (I don't remember right now which communities you've referred to)..., and when comparing us I always like to look at Europe, which is where the regions are with the same income that we and we have here. I like to look at the first in the class and not the last, as it seems repeatedly to you that you like it. But since he has mentioned the places where we govern or participate, I would say that in Madrid, for example, he has not mentioned it, which is contrary to what is happening here: 32 % of the debt has already been amortized and yet social expenditure has risen by 24 %. However, here the gross debt for 2017 rises by 11%. You too, Mrs Gorospe, mentioned the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities, which was published on 20 March of this year, but presented only one part. It has not mentioned, however, that poverty leaves negative data, and remains: in 2008 poverty stood at 5.7%, in 2012 it stood at 7.3 and in 2016 it stood at 7.1 %. That is to say, in 2016, as compared to 2008, poverty has increased by almost 25% in Euskadi. And, seeing that Mrs Castelo is not coming, I will tell the Socialist Party that in one thing Mrs Castelo is right, and it is that something has changed. Forgive me, but I have made a mistake: the "no is no" of the Socialist Party has once again become "yes to the People's Party". And finally, we also know that we have made proposals by listening to citizens, but listening to all citizens, not just part of them. However, follow you with the racca-raca, which, as is said, a repeated lie a thousand times becomes truth. However, we and we will continue to work for policies and budgets that focus, yes, but focus on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u28	Bai, egun on, berriz era. I'll try to go by order. Mr Damborenea, that the GIR would increase, if we had carried out our proposals (even with the one supported by you, of 1.5%), more than many salaries and pensions... What's the matter, that it's the fault of the RGI's perceptors? Or is it the fault of the People's Party and its law? Or not? Because you tell me the reason is that...! No, no. It is the People's Party's fault that the recipients of the GIR have a higher increase than some salaries and pensions, because the People's Party passed a pension law that says what it says and the People's Party has made a labor reform that has brought us to where it has brought us. Mr. Damborenea, is your model very different from what others propose? Agree on the triumvirate! Do we have different models, or do we have no different models? Because you say yes, and here Mrs Gorospe and Mrs Castelo – who is very skillfully not present – have said no. And they're different, of course they are! That is why you are in the budgetary agreement and Euskal Herria Bildu is not in the budgetary agreement, because you have a different economic model than we are going through. And that this is the right direction (Mr. Azpiazu is also not)... Tie up the males, Mr. Azpiazu, come three years of bends with the People's Party. Mrs. Castelo eta Gorospe anderea, really – and Mrs. Castelo I would like you to listen to me; you will read it in the Journal of Sessions –, "incoherence and postureum" has repeated it I don't know how many times. Incoherence and posture of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party, which has had to come here today to defend the People's Party. Tela marinera, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party defending here the amendments of the People's Party. Yes, Mrs. Corcuera, defending an agreement with the People's Party. The party you said was the cut-off party, and you made it go back to being a government. The party that you said is that of corruption, and party that you have made go back to being a government. Incoherence and posture of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Yes, Mrs. Corcuera. That there are no alternatives? Of course there are, we put them on the table! What happens is that you systematically go through what others say. And one thing I loved: "EH Bildu has fallen many amendments along the way." No, Mrs. Castelo, you didn't drop any. They're all in our head, they're all in the pact we have with Basque citizens. All of them. Not like you. Because do I have to remind you what you did last year's legislature? Because Mrs. Castelo wasn't here, but you were. And you said no to an agreement with EH Bildu in which there were, black on white, agreements signed in this Parliament, agreements signed by the Socialist Party, and you chose to make an agreement for football fields, roundabouts and grants to foundations of your party. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this is what you have done and that is what you will continue to do. It's very cold outside, Mrs. Castelo tells me. Yes, people know it's very cold outside, but you, Socialist Party gentlemen, have already been worried about looking for a good woven blanket of high offices. That is what the Socialist Party has done. Basque Nationalist Party, survey data. Mrs. Gorospe, benetan, hartu duzu nahi izan duzuna. Horrek berak esaten report: "Serious poverty is chronicled: 104,000 people in severe poverty in the Basque Autonomous Community". They are people with faces, with eyes; they are people with feelings, people with problems in everyday life. And you stay on the indexes that look like they're a little bit better. Of course, when you just drown here you think it's much better than when you drown here, but you drown, Mrs. Gorospe. He drowns, just the same. He's drowning. PNV, you say, had the will to agree with EH Collect, and that we didn't want to, and that EAJ was always there, generous, and EH Collectek refused. And you said something very important: "Awarded equal conditions." I mean, you thought EH Bildu was going to sell for 29 million euros. That is what the Basque Nationalist Party believed, which had the eighteen votes of EH Bildu for 29 million euros. For 29 million euros of global credit, for 29 million euros that did not move even one euro of the agreement, of the division of power between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. That's what the Basque Nationalist Party believed. And for that, EH is not meeting. He's not here, not today, and... He's not here, and you know that. EH has been gathered for the good of this people, EH has been gathering for the changes to be moved forward, but EH Collect is not here to do any favors. And that's why you have your companions. He says something happened in the middle of the business process. ELA up, ELA down. No, no, I'll tell you what happened in the middle of the negotiation. Azpiazu jauna atera zela prentsarreko bat egitera eta esan zuen: "I want a budget agreement, and I will present it next Wednesday". And that was a full Thursday in this Parliament, when the timetable for budgetary procedure said that there were still more than fifteen days left to speak. But no, the counselor went out saying that he was going to make an agreement that same Wednesday. That's what happened, that you already had an agreement with the People's Party, that you had already signed a round-trip with the People's Party: "You support me here and I support you in Madrid." Because you here today have done the usual thing again. The usual: what you have done, zuek ez duzuela egin... A bai, ahaztu zait: it is already being spent, it is already being spent the wild of Gipuzkoa, Mrs Gorospe. It's already being spent, because Gipuzkoa's wild card is coming again. Eta badakizu gezurretan arizarela. Ez of the egya, ez of the egya. Bai, bai, bai. Nik hitz egiten dut nik dodana mouth. Ez of the egya, ez of the egya. (Berbotsa) Eta zuk badakizu ez her egia. Ez da egia zeren eta Gobernu honek badauka ahalmena defiit-muga negociatzeko. And the deficit limit is not negotiated at a protocol meeting with Mr Montoro for two hours in Madrid, and you know that. And the Basque Government could have negotiated the deficit limit, and very skillfully it was left with the same deficit limit as the rest of the common system autonomous communities. And that can be done by the Basque Government. The rest of the public administrations do not have that capacity. The Basque Government has it, and it didn't want to do it. Moreover, in that seemingly bad legislature for the world and much worse for Euskadi, and for Gipuzkoa no longer tell you, there was a proposal on the table to agree on a common line in relation to the deficit limit and go as a people to defend that to Madrid, and the PNV said that "greens have reaped them", because to defend Euskadi they are already there and they are worth it, right? And that's what they come to tell us. And all his justification comes because in the end what Mr. Ortuzar said yesterday is the most damning truth. You have a problem selling the agreement with the People's Party, and Mr. Ortuzar said yesterday: "To make an agreement with the People's Party can burn us." That is the problem of the Basque Nationalist Party. That is the problem of the Basque Nationalist Party, which now has to go home, has to go to the Batzokis and sell an agreement with the People's Party. That's the problem. But for that you are dedicated to saying that we did not know what. No, Mrs. Gorospe, don't be mistaken. It was not an EH Bildu advisor who went to the press to say "I believe in a tax reform, you have to raise taxes. I don't have money to spend," and that a week later he had to pull back. Moreover, it was not even in the budget debate. Because, yes, Mr Azpiazu shame bullfighter has, not like others: he did not come here because he had already told him Confebask that of that nothing, cute, and had already told him the deputy of Bizkaia that of that nothing, cute. It's horrendous now. But PNV with his raka. The budget that you're going to make is not responding to this town, it won't answer. Because, from the beginning, there are no resources to be needed, and there are no means that you have not, because it is more convenient for you to congratulate a few, to be content with ones, and people, well! Really, and to finish... (Barreak) No, really! That I'm staying in the no speech. Never, and anyone who knows me knows that I've never practiced that kind of politics. No, Mrs. Castle. What I'm not doing is coming here as you've been doing, which gives me the feeling that he would have liked to be a lot more government whip than having to be the one who runs errands to the Basque Nationalist Party. That is your problem, Mrs Castelo, that the Socialist Party is sending messages to the Basque Nationalist Party, and you, unfortunately, have to do them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u30	Thank you barriro, ma'am. Incoherence of the Socialist Party said that it had to defend the amendments of the People's Party. Man, Mrs Pinedo, you have supported 75% of those amendments. They should be a little embarrassed. And as for the issue of different models, it is that this is their dialectic, it is the dialectic in which the People's Party and EH Bildu are involved, and to which they politically intend to drag us and will not drag us. We are located in centrality. That's not our issue, that's a topic between you, that to settle down you say "We have different models and we have nothing to do with the others." And we and we, our parliamentary group, the Basque Nationalist Party, are not going to get into that dialectic. That's one thing between you, and if you're comfortable continue with that speech. But it's not ours. Therefore, we do not feel concerned, Mr Bollain. Of course, we recognize you from our total parliamentary group and absolute legitimacy, because everyone in this House is because Basque society has decided to do so. Therefore, our utmost respect. But we demand the same when they refer to our parliamentary group and to whether we and we represent social majorities or not. Just put it to your rightful measure. In relation to the GIR – and this is both for Podemos and for EH Bildu – there is no reason why you here in Euskadi are carrying out the policy and political discourse you are carrying, when in Navarre you have recently changed the law governing income guarantee income so that it is no longer indexed to the interprofessional minimum wage, and it is updated with the value between the increase of the CPI in Navarre and that of the minimum wages in Navarre. Let them question the capacity to maintain the dignity of the people in Euskadi, when here the benefit, the minimum amount per member, is 625 euros for living units of non-pensioners, and 710 euros for living units of pensioners, and in Navarre is 600 euros. Because that change was made, among others, with their political support. It is therefore incoherent and hypocritical, from a political point of view, that with realities so close from a socio-economic point of view you make such radically different speeches, and that is very difficult for you to calm down. I have given you the example of the autonomous communities where you actually, in Spain..., not because you look at Spain, but because you have some government responsibilities or have supported it. So, that's why it seemed good to give you the data from those communities. I have previously given you as to the progressiveness of taxes and how where you support progressiveness is less, and those who have less pay more than in Euskadi. But I can also give you debt, to which you were referring again. In Aragon, the increase in debt from the third quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2016 is 9,7 %; in the Balearic Islands, 6,5 %; in Castilla-La Mancha, 5,7 %; in Extremadura, 14,7 %; in Euskadi, 5 %; in the Community of Valencia, 7,3 %. In all of them older, in the third quarter... [[Berber]] Yes, but they support and are closer to the government politically. As you say, all this data I'm giving you is debt data according to the excessive deficit protocol by autonomous communities, which the Banco de España offers. Not this time either. I remember one of your delegates here asked the President in a question which he asked: "Not this time, Mr. President, not this time." I'd say again: "Not now." Ostro train perdide. Tampoco state vez. Tampoco state vez. And the point is that you're all mixed up with it is that you've had a strategic mistake and that you're making a tactical movement to hide that strategic mistake. You intend to disguise a strategic error in not reaching a budgetary agreement that puts you in a position with capacity and in an alternative with government and management capacity, with tactical movements, which are to entangle everything and talk about everything, of "you are agreeing with the political party that makes cuts, that carries the radical policy, that is anti-Euskadi"... And I would like to remind you of various political agreements that we have reached from our party, from our parliamentary group or party, in other areas. In Euskadi with the Socialist Party we can say that we have been making approaches and getting used to working together from a political perspective. These initial contacts with previous agreements have been consolidated into government agreements that sustain and give stability to the entire Basque institutional sphere. With you in the last legislature we also reached an important agreement in the area of municipal law. In this legislature here we have agreed to create and constitute the presentation of memory and coexistence in Euskadi, where you are and the People's Party has chosen not to be. So there are many areas of agreement that we have, and you, EH Bildu and the People's Party, come once and a thousand times to political agreements in this House. Therefore, it is not reasonable for you to enter into this strategy. We are not going to admit political disqualifications from parliamentary groups. We're not gonna admit it. We are not going to admit that you are incapacitating the People's Party politically or seeking to disqualify it politically in order to reach agreements. Nor will we allow the People's Party to seek to disqualify you politically, as subjects with which agreements can be reached in this House. We need political normalization. We will act with all due respect, but, I tell you again, they need to be politically emancipated. Emancipate politically, have your own judgment. Do not always be at the dawn of what others tell you. Today in Gara we can read this: "Left values and militancy, political commitment, participation, debate, remain essential. Now more than ever, because there is no more vanguard to delegate anything to." These are the words of Joxemari Olarra. Apparently, many things were delegated to the vanguard, and now there are other agents who continue to protect them. Emancipate politically. To be free. This is what we expect from a political point of view; that you may be free and able to make a treaty in political quarters, with boldness, with care, with responsibility. These are the values of the left, apparently. In our opinion, the values of Basque society... among them, one of the values is the culture of the agreement. The Basque society has absolutely internalised that in the political sphere and in all areas the agreement is absolutely necessary. It is a value of Basque society. And whoever wants to empathize with Basque society, who wants Basque society to understand that it is its representative and that its values are identified in that group, must understand that the political agreement, the culture of political agreement, is proper to Basque society, and must belong to those who politically represent it. Oraingoan was ez. Hurrengoan isango ote da? Guk bayetz I hope dugu. That's a dugu behar dugula. We think we need it. We hope that next time we will also have a choice to negotiate and at some point we will be able to reach a successful conclusion also in the area of management. Our gates are open, our hands stretched out for you, for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The discussion's over and we'll go to the vote. We vote first for the EH Collectoral amendments reserved for the distributions. We can vote. [[Berber]] Do you have a good card? Yeah. It's on now, no, not yours hasn't turned up yet. Please come out again, please. Let's vote again, okay? We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u32	So the corrections are not accepted. After that, we'll vote together with the Polydemos team for reconnaissance funding. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u33	So the corrections are not accepted. Next, the summary boxes of expenses are made to vote, and the changes approved by the discussion of the committee. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the contrary is 29; white is 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u34	So it's accepted. The two groups of Podemos agree with each other, the corrections reserved on the articles of the law, between the 907 and 909. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u35	So they didn't accept it. Next, the EH Collectors vote for the correction reserved on the articles of the law, number 911. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u36	So he didn't accept it. The following additional regulations, six, seven, and 8. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 36; the opposites are 29; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u37	So they're accepted. The rest of the criteria that have no direct correction, that is to say, from 1 to 33. Again, from the first extra regulations to the 5th and the 9th to the 15th. 1 out of the last regulation to the 5th, 1, 2, 3, and 4. attachments and the name of the law. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the contrary is 29; white is 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-11.u38	So they're accepted. And so it is approved that the law of the General Prev. 2017th of Eukamia Eremia. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock at noon and twenty-eight.
