ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the theme list, we'll call the congressman Gorka Álvarez Martínez. [[It's in.]] Remember, Madam Arrivalga's vote has been delegated. We will enter the theme list with the first point: "The project of the decree of the law, which consents to a text of the law of the administration of emergency. Discipline and final resolution. Before we discuss this point, I'll remind you that an appendix was sent with the correction of the legislational plan which M. "Mingorn has the word. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. The administration of emergencys is a text of the law which we now bring to your approval. By this decree of the law, it was filled with a promise given by the parliamentary. The new text combines the law of 96 and what was accepted in the last year's April bians. He proposes, after all, a new and united style of both laws, a new number of members and articles, and, after all, a new copy of the two laws. On 21 April 2016, this Parliament passed Law 5/2016 amending the Emergency Management Act. Therefore, in compliance with the final provision, as Security Adviser, I present today on behalf of the Government the consolidated text of the Emergency Management Act. This provision literally provides that the Government is authorized, within a period of not more than 12 months from the entry into force of this Act, to recast into a single text Law 1/96 of 3 April on Emergency Management. And it adds the provision that the consolidated text will integrate both laws into a single text; it will renumber the necessary articles, chapters and provisions; it will adapt the internal references of the laws of recasting to the new numbering, and it will harmonize the legal texts to be recast. Well, the Government, by fulfilling that mandate within the prescribed time limit (adopted on 28 March this text consolidated in the Governing Council), we present it today and submit it to it for approval.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u2	Please silence. It's silence. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u3	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. This legislative decree is supported both by the mandatory procedures, reports and hearings of the Directorate for Language Policy of the Public Administrations and by the favourable report of the Office of Economic Control and the Legal Advisory Commission. The Basque Parliament made a legislative delegation to the Government to produce a text that would consolidate, harmonize and clarify the wording of the Emergency Management Act, and this is what the legislative decree does, I insist, without leaving the margins of the delegation conferred. First, the precepts of Law 1/96 of 3 April and its subsequent amendments have been incorporated into the same text; articles, chapters and provisions have been renamed; incorrect and updated references have been corrected; and, following the guidelines of modern normative texts, the articles have been titrated in such a way that the material content of each of these articles can be easily identified. And all this in order to facilitate the clarity of the rule. Secondly, the vocabulary has been updated and revised, and grammatical issues are included in this update, of course, to unify the use of certain terms that have been used throughout the text differently, and also to provide it with the necessary internal cohesion. For example, this happens with the name of the department of the Basque Government responsible for public security, or with the mentions made to the Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centre or the Basque Emergency and Civil Protection System. The text has also been revised from a non-sexist perspective. And special attention deserves the Basque version, in which there have been major changes, although only related to language. From the adoption of the original law in 96 to the present, significant progress has been made in the technical and legal euskera, and therefore, taking advantage of this enabling delegation, the necessary changes have been made to avoid inconsistencies in the final outcome of the text, in the interests of ensuring legal certainty, seeking the support of the IZO for, as I say, the preparation of this consolidated text. To say this goes without saying, that there is but one necessary tramite, that is to say, of the consent of those members of the legislature. So that with your approval, you published one in the Basque Country News's Official News, so that the new and united letter of the Law for the Emergency Committee may be introduced in force. First of all, thank you for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u4	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. According to what he says about the New Year's Law, 52.6 articles, this initiative will be transferred to the whole meeting by a single examination procedure and voting all over it. There's a side shift and a counter turn. Is someone on the side shift willing to participate? On the counter shift? So, we're going to the vote. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; 10. 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u5	The legislation, therefore, which supports a text of the Law of the Administration, is approved. We'll go after the vote. First of all, the representative of the Popula Party, Ruiz de Arbulok... He mustn't speak. The representative of the Social Party, Mrs. Castelo, is your word. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u6	Very briefly to explain simply that the Socialist Group's favourable vote is motivated by the fact that the legislative decree that has been presented falls within the legislative authority granted by this Parliament in the adoption of the 2016 law, and therefore the consolidated text is within those margins, clarifies and assists legal operators in its implementation. And, therefore, there was only one vote left.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Next, Podemos... From there, Lander? Yes, it's your word from it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u8	Yes, only to explain that our vote has finally been abstention, because most of all our contributions are not logically included in the text, because we were not in the legislature that passed in the legislature, and seeing the corrections there, we have seen that we have been deprived of so much. So our vote was abscession.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u9	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. From EH collect, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u10	Good morning, everyone. Our vote was necessarily abscession. I can't, because, seeing the law itself, we can't say at least on paper and in general that the law is bad. As with laws it often happens, the question is not only what has been admitted, but how it is afterwards developed. And the means to develop. But we cannot vote for him, for when the dispute was made, some of our principal proposals were not admitted, and others, though partially accepted, were not reflected in the direction we intended to give the law. When the law was discussed, our principal interests were these: One. To improve the working of the emergency structure and to-day. To do this, we proposed to create an emergency euscal agency in the organizational model, to improve the co-ordination, and to restore the integrated view. To avoid the gaps of coordination that now exist in the emergency area. To end the levels of the colonies by opening the way. Number two. It was to give place to formation. Archaute to face emergency attacks by making the formation and well prepared for all services. Thirdly, We were desirous that the emergencyes which occur in the sea-range should be within the scope of this law. Besides dealing with the neglect that has happened for the past few years, we'll go and get our own presents. And fourthly, it was to strengthen the support and support of the civil support volunteers and teams, to protect and support professional emergency services. For this purpose we proposed to form structures for civil protection, and in countries above 20,000 inhabitants we proposed to be qualified to promote these groups. These were the targets, but even if we were able to open doors to certain criteria and ends, it was not our intention. There won't be an emergency Basque agency in the end. It seems as if every one would rather keep his own seat of power. And this is very curious, because in the end the law admits of a scale of resistance to hardships, and gives orders, on the other hand, to form a means of support in order to prevent disasters. And our question is: why do we need a scale or how many special units, if there are no sorting agency? As for the formation, the steps have been given, but Archaut has still a long way before he can offer the resources of the formation of all the services which attend emergency. Another of our goals was to give way to the rescue, but we did not succeed in accepting our judgment. And again the sea-range will remain in another's country, as it has been for years. We've lost our chance of transporting our hands to an operational level. And as for the framework of the civil protection volunteers, we failed in the law to build up the volunteers' net and supply them with resources, which, in the end, was most important. We'll have a record to promote the media. Thus the door remains open to strengthen and prepare the fewer volunteers. It is a pity that the criterion of creating a strong framework for civil protection in historical regions and countries above 20,000 inhabitants. Finally, that's the way to actually lead the ends of the law to practice. And this must be for the next time. And two more accounts to finish. One. The chapter of the fire department requires special reference. We think we've lost a lot of options here, too. On the one hand, the new law barely touches 96 in regard to firemen, and is a whole chapter of the law. Firemen need a new law, no doubt, but in the previous law there was a case of stucco law, and at last the government was obliged to retire for want of protection. And now the new law has the same privations as before. And this is where you invite the Basque People from the United States to bring in a new firekeeping law, but I hope you can open the way to a real discussion. By the way, it's odd that we didn't take advantage of the emergency law, as Beltán de Heedia said, you've tried to fix las erratas de génore and all these things, but there's a lot of flaws left, because in the end the fire teams of firemen are stuck in the '96 law,' and it's 10 years later EBEP 2007, at last the law has been misspelled again, and around the fire genera, and the fire department's "boreber" is wrong, but it's badly written... We can do it if you want. And to conclude, and I think it is a profound consideration whether you think it right, and now we shall discuss this at the next point of the meeting, that the workers of the first line of the first line, in this world of security, which is a fundamental service, will at last allow the laws which we shall have in force, and the subcontradictory. We think it's amazing. So, if we have to summarise the law in one sentence, we can say that it has some missed opportunity, that it is a law with a literature that would chirre little on the surface, that seems reasonable at first glance, but that it does not end up giving the emergencies the organizational tools or the material or human means necessary to give an integral and up-to-date response to the emergencies. Time will tell if we're right or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. With what we have in our hands, we think it's the right thing to do, that's to bring this tramite to the legislature, that is, it's just a bureaucratic fir tree. Mr. Otero, we have not come here to discuss the law for the administration of emergency, which we have already discussed. We're here to see whether the several changes of the law have been successful or not, and I must say, as the legal reports indicate, this work can be considered as a model. On the side of the juridic Technic, it is better to have a joint text about the law of the Administration, considering that it was admitted in the year 1996. So, in a digestive text, it's better. In my opinion, this union of all the changes of laws ought to be made by trade, in order to facilitate the search and use of all the legislative texts. In this case, the legislation of the regulations or succession is present in the case of a case, and its limits are well known and well defined, as is expressed in the regulations of the government's law, in particular, because in its article 52, it is thus defined. Undoubtedly, from the point of view of the legal technique it is better to have a single legal text on emergency management. In the law adopted in this House a year ago, in its first final provision, we referred to the enabling of the consolidated text, and we authorized the Government to re-establish in a single legal text Law 1/1996 of 3 April, on Emergency Management, within a period of not more than twelve months – which is in compliance with it – since the entry into force of the law. We are here to see whether or not Parliament's commission to the government did well. That's all. That's a lot, but no more or less than that. On the other hand, my group, Euzko Abertzaleak, would like to stress that this initiative also involves a great effort to update certain texts written in Basque. Apart from accepting a text of the law, a modernized text has been made, and, as I believe, as time passes, it will be considered a positive one, because they have taken upon their labours some texts that are old and old. We believe it to be very convenient, and therefore we are very glad that we have made use of this legislature's context to make a review of it, and of a very complete vocabulary, and consequently of the means of working with it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, my brother, presented by the parliamentary members of the Basque Team, "Mala Llanos Gómez, to face emergency with the SOS Dei-112 service. Discipline and final resolution. Ms. Llanos, it's your word to introduce and get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, the truth is that this issue will think that it is a lock or a lock on the part of this Parliament, on the part of this group, but we believe that it is rather the opposite, that what is there is a lock on the part of the Basque Government, and more specifically by those responsible for the Security Council, with its adviser on the front. I believe that in the various plenary sessions and committees where we discussed emergency service 112 we have all agreed that it is an essential service that falls within the competence of this Government, in accordance with article 17 of our Statute of Self-Government. It is a reference service in Euskadi, as we have all agreed, a quality service, and, by its own characteristics, it is a service that is essential. Let us not forget that it is a service of attention to the public in times of emergency, in hard times, and that, therefore, its quality must be the highest. And, as I was saying, he has it. And he has it mainly for his staff. Because – we have to recognize it again – there are some workers – fundamentally workers – who are able to give human response in record time, quickly, effectively; who are able to empathize with the person who is calling at that time and with the situation that that person is experiencing at that time, situations that are often very distressing. A staff, as I say, with a great professionalism that we have all recognized as well. The counselor in the reply to my inquiry came to say that 112 was a telephone number, but when this service was created its goal was not only to be a telephone number. Its role was, and still is now, to coordinate all the institutions that can help citizens in emergency situations. And, moreover, that this is totally deduced from the reading of the previous specification, which when it explains the object says it goes beyond being a telephone number. We are therefore faced with a coordination service, a public service, and an essential public service. Because the public nature of the service this group – I want to make it clear – has never called it into question. Never. It is true that public services can be met in different ways, either directly by the Administration itself or through subcontracting, such as this, which is being prepared for the next competition. That is why, at the time of writing, it is when we believe that it is appropriate and necessary to collect all the data, and from all those who can provide such data, that can solve the dysfunctions that the service presents at this time, and to gain in quality and efficiency in that service. Because service is true that it has a great quality, but it also has dysfunctions, and we have said them many times. Dysfunctions such as the insufficient template at this time to answer all calls that are made. Because there are calls that are lost, there are calls that cannot be answered for lack of sufficient staff. In addition, the response time is sometimes not the right one, with what it implies. As I have said on other occasions and I want to reiterate now, when you call 112 every second that happens to you seems like an eternity, it is vital. And every second that goes by can also be vital to the response given to this emergency situation. The number of calls has been increasing over the years, and the number of staff, however, has decreased, resulting in the quality of service being resented. To this must be added the need to create a work bag for layoffs and replacements, because at the moment the replacements, as I have said on other occasions, are covered by the workers themselves, with the loss of their own hours of work and rest. The existence of such a service, of such a work bag, should therefore be ensured in the next leaflets. These specifications should set out the personnel structure necessary for the proper provision of the service and, if necessary, extend it accordingly. Plans for the training and retraining of staff, as well as the subrogation of women workers, should also be ensured. Because, in addition to the fact that in this way they can continue with stable employment, it will also lead to the maintenance of the quality of service. Because, as I've said many times, it's not just a phone number. It is necessary to have a series of knowledge, a preparation, required in the specification itself, and really that knowledge and that preparation that best has at the moment are the people who are working in the service. That it is therefore of interest that they continue, but that they continue to maintain all their rights and without losing their seniority. And our legislation makes this possible, and it also makes it possible to include social clauses for the benefit of service providers and, therefore, also for the benefit of their quality and efficiency. She pointed out when she answered the question she would agree with her that she could not have a previous meeting with the workers to discuss the service. Well, it's not that I disagree, it's that I radically disagree with her at that point. We consider the meeting to be appropriate. We believe that receiving women workers does not mean interference at all, but rather that what it means to know first hand, by the hand of those who are at the head of the service every day, by the department and by its top representatives, how it works and what dysfunctions that service has. It involves a knowledge of shortcomings and needs, which would lead to the drafting of a more appropriate specification of conditions, which lays the foundations for better service and service in better conditions for the people who provide it, and which, therefore, as I say, will benefit that service. I told the counselor, and since she is here, taking advantage of it, I want to reiterate it: a government that boasts attention to people we do not understand that we can close in on a band to receive a group of people, but also a group of people who are at the forefront of such an essential service. As has been pointed out here on other occasions, if that meeting had been held a long time ago, months ago, this subject would probably never have been discussed here. It would probably not have been brought here for debate. The issue was brought to discussion precisely because the workers tried to meet, and there has been no way. It was initially referred to agenda problems, to which there was no appointment of these workers because the agenda was very tight. It seemed to us that, as tight as the agenda of a counselor or a vice-advisor is, I think taking a little time to meet with a representation of the workers was possible. However, it was then clearly stated that no, that it was not an agenda issue, that it was not a matter of time, but that what there was was a refusal to that meeting. And, moreover, after that negative the lock has been total. Because it is true that at first it seemed that the vice-counselor, when in his tight agenda he found a gap, would meet with the representation of the workers, but now the lock is complete and is not ready to receive them at any time. And we insist: for all the shortcomings that the service has, in order to try to supply them and improve them in the next specification, I believe that the meeting of the workers is not that it does not interfere, but quite the contrary; that knowing their demands, knowing their problems, obtaining information, can serve for the elaboration of the specifications. Receiving women workers does not mean giving them reason in everything, it does not mean assuming their demands in full. He supposes to listen to them, because they are the ones who are giving first hand the service and no one better than them knows him. Finally, we have signed an amendment with the Elkarrekin Group, in which, in addition to asking that this closure be reconsidered to hold a meeting, we again raise issues that have already come out here in other debates, which we believe are important, which we believe is important for them to appear in the specification, and which must be guaranteed, so that in this way the service can function optimally. I'm not spreading anymore. I think the issue is clear, I think the issue is fair, and I expect your support for the amendment signed by Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Group. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u15	Eskerik asko, Llanos andrea. Passing to the team that was running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u16	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that I am not going to prolong myself in this matter either, and I am not going to do so because three months ago, since a non-law proposal was passed in this House to put a solution to this labour dispute for the workers of the emergency care service and that problem was already detailed at that time. But nothing has changed since then for this collective. Today we ask that, until we have resolved a new contract, we mediate in the conflict between these workers and the company; in addition to remembering that in our compromise amendment, which is now having sex with the People's Party, we introduce what measures are needed and that they were already approved in this House in January. Also, and since budgets have been approved and this item has been increased, this increase is intended entirely for the salary improvement of the SOS Deiak-112 staff. We recall that the staff of this service earns an average salary of 1000 euros, and there is no provision for any kind of extra for transfers despite living in different territory to Bizkaia, territory where this service has been centralized. A template that lost all its rights of seniority acquired for twenty years, by not incorporating the subrogation in the previous leaflet, as if it were nimimating the subrogation. A template adhering to the telemarketing agreement, matching a product vendor to an emergency service operator. In short, a staff subject to job insecurity, so for months fighting to solve this situation, until, exhausted all possibilities of negotiation, they opted for the strike. A strike that was forced to perform a minimum of 100 per cent services, leaving them without the ability to exert any pressure on their job demands. Many obligations and few rights for these workers. I would not like to have to think that we have a government looking the other way when we talk about loss of rights of our workers, job insecurity, loss of quality of emergency service. We have just adopted a decree defining the Emergency Coordination Centre as the basic platform for technological and logistical support to communicate and facilitate the coordination of the various services involved in all types of emergencies, in accordance with the relevant civil protection plans and operational tactics. And, therefore, it is up to you to provide the emergency call service through the single telephone number 112. Almost nothing! A vital service that must be of quality, and it is precisely this quality of service that cannot be supported solely on the shoulders of workers. It is the Administration that must ensure this quality, and it is therefore necessary to improve the quality of the procurement, but it is indeed necessary that it does not remain as mere holders. Women workers (and I say women workers because more than 90% of this group are women) have been fighting for too long at the same time as they support such an important service, and so far this government has not mediated in this conflict. We believe it is never too late if the bliss is good, even though it would have been good for the Security Advisor, who is responsible for ensuring the SOS Deiak-112 service, to have done so long ago, even being able to avoid a strike. All it took was political will. His party partner, Mr. Urtaran, already did so here in Gasteiz with another conflict between workers and another company subcontracted by the City Council of this city. In other words, there is no legal compliance that prevents such mediation. It's just a matter of political will, Counselor. Nothing more. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u18	Good morning again, all of you. Let's see if I can make it short. It's not long since we talked about working conditions for SOS Calls-112 emergency workers on this Chamber. That is to say, January 26th. In it, we showed different views, and a half-correction was accepted. It was pretty obvious. On the one hand, the next plegus, or rather, should be taken out of the following plegus, ought to guarantee worthy conditions of labour for workers. And on the other hand, that the Government was to examine the administration's republicization. It's a self-publication, because in the previous discussion, both socialists and critics seem to me to have been pretty cheating. You said what you said couldn't be publicized, and the head of the Security department repeated the same thing in his interpelation for a few weeks ago. We may lose ourselves in terms, whatever you like, but it is clear what is meant and what we say: 121, that which receives emergency calls, the Administration must offer it through direct management. That's the attitude of EH Collect, and it's not so difficult to understand. And the other law demanded clearly that we consider this possibility. And in January, the other legal proposal was received by the majority. And what have you done about this? Nothing! That's what you've done! Don't pay attention to those who don't interest you. As Herdian de Heedia made it clear, you've not even shown the ability to organize a sad meeting. But beyond the question of publication or republication, we have an intolerable problem on the table with workers who are serving 112 today. I will not repeat the arguments given in this discussion, but I think it is essential to remark that the workers on the other side of the 112 telephone are still under the low conditions, and that the situation has not moved a millimeter since that hour. It was clear that these workmen are offering immense services in the previous discussion. They are the first link of the chain of response to emergencies, the indispensable work, the busy work, the stressful ones more than once. And what they demanded, and what was received and accepted here, is very simple: that there was subrogation in the next assignment, a sufficient personal contract to get to work properly, that the formation should be a worthy collective collective contract of the labor agreements adapted to work. And their agreement is that of telemarketing or contact, and their work is not telemarketing, they are not merchants, they are the attention of emergencies. When the SOS-Dei hires 112, this government and the former have only looked at the savings, which has led to the decoy and to the downfall of the service. And again and again you have said that what was admitted here was a simple toast, but repetition has not made it real. It is true that different things were demanded in the central correction, and that perhaps they were not all compatible at the same time, but it is possible that this legislature should obey in different cases. But we need political will, and that was what we had shown the preceding law, and what you did not exhibit, political will. Because if you have a will, it's easy enough to solve this situation. First, as you're told today, sit down with the staff to study the situation. It's not that hard. You have two options to continue, both legal, to improve the conditions of work. One, an impulse to make a special pact. It wouldn't be the first time. You can take your own words tomorrow, but that's why you have to put money on the table. In the budget there has been a 16-year-old climb for this issue, but if that money doesn't change the telemarketing deal for a special agreement, it won't be reflected in the laborers' salaries. So before the newplegus come out, you push the new contract, and you keep it in the new allocation. Very simple. There is another possibility: The rank or professional category of workers who serve 112 would be equal to the administrative administration of the euscals, and thus their salaries would be equal to those of the administration. This may also be grafted into pludes. And to conclude, if you really want to solve the problem in a middle term in a permanent way, you know the solution, the solution, the solution. Start scanning this basic service in order to give the administration direct access to the site and there's no problem. And a little reflection to finish. We don't think it's allowed to be asked for a service by the Basque Administration, in this case the answer to the number 112, and, after all, to give up the problems of the workers who serve as an account of others. Especially because the situation hasn't been laid up enough money for the service. The ethical service is not to be obtained at a minimum price, to guarantee its profits, and to experience the workers on the other side of that chain, until they reach certain conditions that are unbearable. And that's what you're doing over and over again. We'll vote for him for us, because it seems to us that, though all our demands are not in this half-correction (they are not all), but it seems to us as if it came to a minimum, Mrs. Castellao. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u20	The spokesman for EH Bildu closed the speech by saying that they were going to vote in favour – I already expected it, since before it began to speak – he says, "because we have reached the minimum." And if you hadn't reached a minimum you would have supported her too, I am convinced of that, because this is already three months ago. I am going to speak ironically, for whom two weeks ago from this rostrum the Socialists accused us of turning to the demons of the People's Party, because it seems that it was not clear to them when I explained that they were supported by EH Bildu and by Podemos 75% of the budgetary amendments of the People's Party, while, without complexes, they accused us in the same way that we were contaminating, we didn't know very well what, with that agreement that we arrived at. In a few minutes we are most likely to see an alliance that is already quite common in this Parliament, between the People's Party, Podemos and EH Bildu, because they come to a minimum, that is. Because they come to a minimum, and because they're trying to pass us around, I don't really know which way to play games like mine. So I am going to summarise, from the outset, that what I am defending here is the position that the Basque Socialists have in the field of subcontracting, which is nothing other than the incorporation as social clauses of scrupulous respect for workers' labour rights and which are recognised by collective bargaining between workers' representatives and employers in the sectors in subcontracting companies. And I hope that what they are doing will not respond to the reform imposed unilaterally by the People's Party Government (a party that brings this initiative to this House after a few weeks in which it seems that this trade unionist spirit that has taken away from them in recent times is resuming), but that they will do so in accordance with the spirit of agreed improvement of the working conditions of the workers, which was the way in which it came to be done until 2012 – if some do not remember it – someone decided with absolute majority, in another parliament, that we would stop giving that instrument to the trade union centres. And, therefore, what we do now is to go in and give coverage here to those who are defined with proletarian enthusiasm in certain motions or GNP that are brought to us. I hope that this proletarian enthusiasm for some will last until three days, and on May 1st I can greet someone known for some time, in the manifestation of Workers' Day. I hope to see some girl there, for the first time in her life, as she uses this rostrum to defend so much and so fervently the rights of the workers. And I am going to go into this issue now, because, as has been said, barely three months ago we were discussing in this Parliament a GNP presented by Podemos, concerning the call service 112, a debate that was being brought to this House, as we were told by its proposer, so that the demands of the women workers in this service could be known. And those demands were disproved in the various interventions that were made and were heard by the head of the Department of Security, so you will not be able to deny that you have it. Of that debate, yes, a non-legislative proposal was adopted which did not incorporate anything with regard to a meeting of the security officer – basically because it was meaningless to urge a meeting when we had an hour and a half in this Parliament talking about the 112 demands and service with the present adviser – but which, on the contrary, incorporated some points that the proponents themselves knew beforehand that were impossible to comply with, in accordance with the current legal order. But that didn't matter. It did the same, because the question that was to be made clear was another, and for that it did not matter whether what was approved was viable or not. In the last full of control the People's Party, Quixote del Ebro up in defense and attention to the rights of workers (it would be necessary to see what they do from the Ebro down, or a little to the west of the peninsula), made an inquiry that has given rise to a motion, which, despite the appearance, I sincerely believe does not respond to an interest in the concrete management of the emergency call service, but to a personal question of the signatory, which they have already remembered, and I will not do it again now, last January. And I say this because I have read and reread in a thorough manner the interventions that took place in the substantiation of that inquiry, and I do not see why or the origin of that motion that we have to discuss today. For this reason, I have tabled with the Nationalist Group an amendment to try to bring this motion back to something possible, something legal, something timely, and especially useful for the interests of the workers who provide this emergency call service. Because we are convinced that the specifications must contain social clauses, the legal ones and necessary, in order to guarantee the subrogation of the staff (in which we agree), the proper dimensioning of the staff for the optimal provision of the service (which we also agree), with adequate coverage of casualties and absences, and the continuous training of the staff. We're not so separated. But, despite not being so separate and having tabled an amendment to that effect, we have not received a single call from any of the other groups to try to agree a compromise proposal with us. Why? I don't know. Someone will explain it to me. And we want all this to be done in the shortest possible time, so that with the new award we guarantee from the Administration the respect of the labor rights that by collective agreement (by collective agreement, and I will repeat it again: by collective agreement) the workers of this call center are guaranteed. I could also extend my intervention a little further and repeat arguments given in the intervention I had three months ago, which are still fully in force, or disengage them from how some of the groups behave when they rule and are not in the opposition and 112 is dealt with in different autonomous communities, or I could also explain to them why today collective bargaining is weakened to unsuspected limits. But I do not think it is worth it, because for this reason you can quietly reread the minutes of the January plenary, or review the minutes of the Committee on Labour and Justice, where you have made it clear to us on a regular basis what collective bargaining is, who are its protagonists, under what circumstances it is, and who gave the deadly stab at the guarantee of workers' rights. But if it makes them lazy to read all that, I'll sum it up. And the culprit for all this is in the labour reform approved by the People's Party with an absolute majority in 2012, with which it is not difficult for you here to compromise a proposal to defend the rights of the workers they have curtailed. Finally, join the People's Party here, in the toasts you want, because they keep being toasts. But be clear, be clear that the playing field and the rules have been marked by them in Madrid. And unless you want to change them there, here you will only dance to the are they are marking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u22	Thank you, ma'am. The Chief Department, Mr. President, members of the legislature, good morning again. The eubertarians will vote against the motion the popular team has proposed for discussion. And he will vote the contrary because we are opposed to the axiom from the origin of the action. What Mrs. Llanos had proposed, any one of us could do in a generic manner. However, what I want to emphasise is: This proposition, at least, as has been stated, is a very symplistious proposition, and does not reach the basis of problems. If that's a bet for accuracy, we're off! The Socialist group, however, and the correction we have laid before us in open fashion, concludes what we have in our hands, because we perceive that these are to be handled, and have proposed the way to do so. I regret that Mrs Llanos was not permeable to the answers she received from the Security Adviser in her parliamentary initiative in the form of an inquiry. Mrs Llanos brings us here today a motion as devoid of substance as it is in need of arguments. And I'm not saying that because you're not very much in favour of the action of this government or the Security Advisor. Criticisms, of course, are acceptable, especially when they are made with the intention of improvement; but when you criticise yourself for criticizing, out of time, as is the case, you lose all credibility, especially when there is no serious constructive proposal behind. Mrs. Llanos, you can't, with your gross taste and your gruesome begging, avoid the voidness of your initiative. Because I have to tell you, Mrs Llanos, that I have dived in the plenary sessions of these last two legislatures and I have not encountered any motion of such a small nature. We see ourselves again in this debate, whose nominal purpose is to ask the counsellor for a meeting with the workers of the SOS Deiak-112 emergency service, supposedly so that the counsellor knows first hand those issues that can influence the good running and the optimal efficiency of the service. On the other hand, something she already knows because the collective she claims to defend has met with all the parliamentary groups and has met with heads of the Department of Security; the collective has called a strike, and has published and disseminated its demands widely. And because this debate took place in this House exactly three months and a day ago. And you, in a treacherous way, twisting the Rules of Procedure, re-emerging the debate with a different wording, a different wording but reiterating sophisms and arguments in the middle of the hair. The motion does not seek what it says, but seeks to wear down the figure of the counselor, no more or less. But that does not seem to matter very much to those who are used to swimming in the lavish waters of begging, even in these times of thawing. SOS Deiak workers do not want to express to the counselor their concerns about the good functioning of the service, but to present to her their claim table and demand an improvement of their working conditions. Legitimate thing, of course, but it is not the counselor who has to accept them. On the other hand, the Basque Government has recently adopted the structure decree, which you must know, and if you have read it you will know that the problem of emergency care has established channels, with technical and human resources placed at that disposal, for the good running and control to shine. And also, apart from that, aside from that, there are internal and external audits, which you should also know. Without the aim of falling into its trap and reproducing the debate that took place here in January, our amendment is much more practical, as it urges the Basque Government to finalize, as soon as possible, the relevant file for the recruitment of the emergency telephone service 112, including social clauses guaranteeing decent working conditions for workers; among other things, staffing subrogation, continuing training and coverage of casualties or absences. Much more practical, much more concrete, much more realistic. In any case, you, who often brag about the consistency of the People's Party, I will propose, Mrs Llanos, a test of hearing acuity. Let's see if he's able to guess who exactly said this: "We support his mobilizations, because we're talking about essential services for citizens that are not being provided under decent conditions." There is also criticism of the "absolute silence and lack of dialogue of the Government towards the workers, who refuse to receive before the transfer to the new emergency room". It looks like he's making a reference... it could be the Basque government. Well, no. He's referring to the Galician Junta. And these demonstrations are made by the Vice-President of the Bureau of the Galician Parliament and deputy of En Marea, confluence of Podemos, Eva Solla. Look how good! For what I wanted to say to you, Mrs Llanos, and also to the Elkarrekin group We can, of course, this happens nothing more and nothing less than in Galicia, which happens to be the spiritual reserve of the People's Party, with an outsourced service, 112, and on dates as recent as 10 April. April 10, that is, barely two weeks ago. And it is told by the parliamentary spokesman of En Marea, confluence of Podemos, in response to some of the demonstrations that have been made here. In the budget debate, the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr Bollain, called the People's Party antisocial – it is textual – to be the leaders in cuts, to favor the economic elites, and, as a tip, nothing more and nothing less than to be the most corrupt party in Europe. He said it with those letters. Given this, and that they have signed a joint amendment with Elkarrekin Podemos, Mrs Llanos, and that they liked the qualification I gave them last January 26th, as a "strange couple", I now think it is more appropriate the title of that comedy plot, so Spanish, on the other hand: "The extremists touch each other". I ask the two of you to be consistent, in the background and in the forms. In the forms, because it's not a receipt that those who ask for a cordon sanitaire... It is not a receipt, gentlemen of Podemos, that those who ask for a health cord around the People's Party on this occasion agree with him. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. When you answer it, Mrs. Llanos, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u24	Thank you again, Madam President. Look, Mr Latxaga, it is worth bringing this issue here, even if it is only because of your use of the Spanish dictionary and the profusion of adjectives that you have dedicated to me. Come on, I think he's missed a few! I think the health cord would like you to do it with the People's Party. I don't know that..., that sacramentalization that you..., satanization of the agreements that we can reach with Elkarrekin We can! It seems to you... Hey, we in this House can make deals, we can... We've arrived with you, we've arrived with the Socialist Party... We can reach agreements, agree on votes... I already understand that you would like to isolate us, but it's just that no, you're not going to make the move. I have to say to Mrs Castelo that if all the fault, all the fault of the malfunctioning of the 112 service is the fault of the People's Party Government, then look, I do not doubt, but not a second, that the Counsellor would have met with the workers to tell them "The fault of this is the whole People's Party, and the Government of Spain." Because, come on, whatever you like better, there's no, uh, there's no, you can blame someone else. And if it's the government of Spain and the government of the People's Party, come on, honey on beans! With which, come on, I wouldn't have had any glue. And the meeting, which is what we asked here... Well, I don't know if the proposal will have a great void or not. The truth is that I don't care at all about the terms on which you have referred, as a vacuum proposal, simplistic... I am not interested at all, because I do not come here to appear before you, nor to have you tell me "what more elaborate proposal" or "what parliamentarian, like Castile". No! No! I come here to raise a question which I believe is possible, which I believe can, first, benefit the Basque workers who are in 112, and then it can benefit all Basques by the optimal functioning of 112. Because the meeting that the counsellor can make with the workers can be, in addition to knowing their working conditions (that why not, because, as I say, resolving those working conditions, obtaining the optimal working conditions is for the benefit of the service), also to know the service itself. I just don't understand that lock! If I don't have to wear out the counselor! If the counselor wears herself! She wears herself! Because, come on, that passion for the counselor's dialogue is palm and notorious, so I don't have to come here and tell her anything. And I here, of course, only introduced the request of that meeting!, because there had already been an agreement on the other matter. Now, since it has not been intended to be fulfilled, there is nothing wrong with putting it back. And some of the issues are reflected in that compromise amendment. And you say the extremists touch each other. Look, I'm not extremist, I have Andalusian blood and Alavesa blood, with which I in myself am an extremist who touches herself. I mean, let's see, really... And, Mrs. Castelo, you say to see if you see me behind a banner. Look, I already understand that you are experts in that: when you were in the government you say one thing, and when you were in the opposition a different good. And to Mr Latxaga I can tell you that if I bring you here interventions from the Basque Nationalist Party when it reunified 112 and moved to Bizkaia it would look like they were mine or from Elkarrekin We can those interventions. And they were theirs, because they gave wax at the time to the Patxi López government for the reunification of 112 and the malfunctioning of the service, that if I take them out here today you would think that I had said them, or Elkarrekin We can in the full past. And what I was saying to you, Mrs. Castelo. You are also experts in doing absolutely nothing in the government; now, that is, as soon as you pass to the opposition, at zero comma two demonstrate your desire for the banner... and the first in the demonstration. And what I have to tell you is that the rights of course that can be defended in a demonstration, but the rights are also defended in this Parliament. And that is what this group has done by bringing this initiative here today. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u25	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs Macazaga, together Podemos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u26	Yes, thank you. Well, we can divert the debate to where we want to go, but I think there is something clear, and if the issue is brought back to this House, it is because, despite all the words that we can release here, the problem of this group of women workers has not been solved. And I think we've added something, which is the counselor's mediation, in which I think they wouldn't lose anything by talking. It perplexes me so much scepticism to talk to women workers in such an important service for citizenship, the truth. What's wrong with the fact that even drafting the brochure the counselor meets with this collective, which could even help improve the wording of the leaflet in response to the demands of these people, who know perfectly well how to offer the service? I repeat that Mr Urtaran has already done so with another conflict, and there was no problem with it. By the way, Mrs. Castelo, I haven't received any calls from you either so I can have sex. Quid pro quo, right? And, Mr. Latxaga, I'm not going to talk about sanitary cords. I'm not going to distort the demands of a collective of workers. And forgive me: indeed, my claim in this sense will be here and anywhere, for the workers here and anywhere else. We'll see what you're doing in the state budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Collect EH, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u28	Yes, in short, four things to repeat. Mrs. Castelo, you have not kept your word. He said it won't be ironic, but in the end, there's no other one left. She doesn't have another one left. You remind me of the fable of the frog and the scorpion. I'm not going to miss my speech explaining it, but, well, I think it's clear. The truth is, it's hard to understand your position. Or, well, it's also easy to understand, but what it is, it's hard to interpret its position. Because it's easy to play here the "and you more" with the People's Party, when the famous and nefarious Labour Reform of the People's Party you allude to was simply the rematch of the corner you pulled out with the previous reform. And the situation that we are suffering today with the 112 service comes to a very good extent, as Mrs Llanos said, from those leaflets that came out when you were in the government and that restructuring that in its day so criticized the Basque Nationalist Party. But then it's funny how some people here are passing the ball to others, why we've come to this situation, but it turns out that what we have is the situation we have, which is really unfortunate. And it is true that referring to the banner on which the People's Party is going to come out or not on 1 May, trying to make a mockery, I do not think that in this case, because we are talking about a concrete case in a specific place, it is doing you a lot of favor. One more thing before it's over, well, a couple of times. You're the one who says the workers and corporations should be looking for the deal. But you know very well in this case, and with the money on the table that is to serve you, that without the government media there will be no bargain for a few worthy wages. And meanwhile, their salary is based on the State telemarketing convent. And here, too, I don't think you have much to say, because you don't protect either you or the Poptular party. Once a collective stateal agreement suits you well enough to maintain what you are doing with these workers today. And one more thing. You say that in general you agree with what is said by the half-rational correction, the sub-variety of the other workers, the constant formation, and the absence of them, because you have also said this in your correction, but then, when we go to our own private affairs, we begin to slip again here again. Because here you are talking about social clauses that guarantee decent working conditions, but, of course, what you're not telling us is what you're thinking about today's working conditions. Because today's working conditions are unworthy, is that what you think? So they can get to decent work conditions? Or, on the contrary, do you think that their working conditions are now worthy, with which what they charge would not have to change? I think it is very important that you clarify this point when you speak of decent working conditions. And when we talk about decent working conditions – and with this I end – and when I said in my first intervention that this matter is quite easy if there is political will, I meant... And I'm going to take the paper out, as Mr. Egibar would say (no, I didn't think, but I'm going to take the paper out), and I'm talking about Wednesday, December 2, 2015, Official Gazette of the Basque Country, Department of Employment and Social Policy: Resolution of the Director of Labour for registration, publication and deposit of collective agreement for the company UTE GSR-Televida for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Here, in the annex, curiously... There are two attachments; one that talks about the amount of money you are going to receive, and then talks about the categories. And here he talks about the category of teleoperators, in this agreement – it is a convention of its own, after a labor dispute – and he talked about the teleoperator handling and managing incoming and outgoing calls from the teleassistance service to respond to needs. That is to say, perfectly comparable the type of work that is inserted in group D, as shown in the annex to the wage tables for 2015, with its corresponding increases of 3% for the year 2016 and 2017. This can be proposed and this can be pushed. And this is, after all, the only thing the 112 workers' group is asking for, and it seems that you do not want to push. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u30	Well, we've been at the same thing for three months. A previous meeting, believes Mrs Llanos that it is convenient to know first hand how this service works. Lie. He's lying, and he knows it. The meeting you are seeking is not to see how the service works, but to see how the workers' demands of a work-related nature are. Okay? I mean, that's what there is, because how the service works is known, they've already explained it, because there are previous controls, and internal and external audits. And because they in their platform of claim and in the meeting with the different political groups have not shown us that the service is not adequate and that they are not providing it properly, mainly because they do it well and do it in a professional way. What they're claiming are wage labor improvements, pluses... I told you, and you have it in writing. And not only you: you also have it, logically, the unions, the company that has the current award, and you know it also the counseling. That it's a lockdown issue so you don't get together, and so, I recommend... Something you've been told, but I'm going to recommend that you read..., go to Google El Faro de Vigo and La Voz de Galicia in March and April, and see how the People's Party behaves where you're not in opposition. That I don't care who you make agreements with, because that's why we're in a parliament; what I think is a little incoherent is to propose here what is denied there. And it seems to me indecent that when you curtail collective bargaining, and remove the fundamental instrument from the unions and lose the workers the ultraactivity of the conventions, and you have had to listen to it as I have heard it in the Committee on Labour and Justice, I come here proposing the creation of a convention of your own, those conventions that you have brushed up on there in Madrid. So, to me coherence and decency seem important in politics. When it is said by Podemos that nothing has changed, it is not true, because the specifications are drafted and in administrative procedure, that is, they are currently being subjected to the necessary legal controls. So, that's what you were saying to me, from "I think the meeting is right until the specifications are drawn up...". Well, the terms and conditions are already closed, and they're in administrative processing. That is why what we asked for in our motion, and I could have explained it to you if I had had it well now not only that I called you, because normally who calls – and you know it, because although they have had experience in submitting amendments for a short time – is the group that has taken the first initiative, the initial proposing group... And from there I don't know if you called the People's Party to reach an agreement with them, or it was the People's Party that addressed you. All I know is that neither the People's Party nor you have tried, before nor now, to reach an agreement with us. Why? You'll know how to explain it. When you tell me that you want to mediate, do you want to mediate, or do you want the Basque Government to negotiate an agreement? Because that's not for him, and that's for everyone to know. One thing is to mediate and push, and that, do you know who it is that belongs to? Well, trade unions, trade union centres. And do you want to tell me, or do you want me to answer, when a union (I don't care whether it's ELA, LAB, Commissions or UGT) approves an agreement, signs an agreement, if the conditions that it is agreeing on in that agreement are unworthy for the workers it claims to represent? Are you telling me that collective agreements are unworthy working conditions? Because I don't think so. I don't think so. What I am saying is that workers' demands to improve conditions through collective bargaining are very legitimate. Because that's what it's always been like. And, although we are being told about the need for a new update of the way we negotiate, it has to be through that negotiation as workers' working conditions are improving, which need not be just economic improvements, because they can also be of another kind. That is why, well, the issue of what is worthy and what is not worthy, would be something that would not be up to me either to focus it at this time. And finally, consistency, when asked of me, I also demand it from others. I remembered the fable of the frog and the scorpion, which I know, but I reminded you at that time – and today you didn't want to do it either – what behavior EH Bildu had with the service of care of the transport service in Gipuzkoa. When you tell me here that what you are going to do is by the publication of this service, and that it is provided directly, you had a service there and outsourced it. So, well, hey, the paper here we all have, I told you at the time and I repeat it today, because it seems like you haven't heard from that. And then it's very easy to come here and ask for and agree with other political forces, but when the Barcelona City Council just recently had to re-adjure also the 010, phone call, Ada Colau, who I think you know, said he shared the demands of the workers, but that the law prevented him from doing more than he was doing. Consistency, therefore, for all. In this case, we will not logically support the motion put forward, and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And finally, Eucabertarians represent the team, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u32	Good morning again. Mrs. Llanos, I'm asking you to calm down. I ask you to calm and quiet. I know that these are difficult times for the People's Party and that it has to draw strength from weakness, but I ask you to calm down. I owe you an explanation, because the "extremians touch each other" was nothing against the extremians. It's a word game of that plot comedy, and it has to do with the "extrems" that you play. In this case the People's Party and his friends, his colleagues from Elkarrekin Podemos. On the other hand, reference is made to what was approved in January. Well, as far as the reply at this point is concerned, I have quite a lot of work done, because Mr. Otero has just taken care to say that some of the points were incompatible with each other, with which I almost kept the answer. But I have to say again that that agreement, that compromise amendment, was a monument to incoherence, because it in turn urged us to study the opportunity and economic viability of incorporating the Basque Emergency Service into the structure of the General Administration, and then intended to include the staff of a private company in the public structure. With which one and the other can hardly be married. That's the question I had to comment on. As for EH Bildu – some references have also been made here – with these inconsistencies, it seems that Mrs. Llanos is the flute player of Hamelín, whose music starts to sound a little bit and everyone who has a desire for the banner – which Mrs. Llanos said that there are some who have a desire for the banner – so those who have a desire for the banner follow it, so that they can achieve their ends. "Y a precisameente el grapo de EH Collect, el señor Casanova hace un par de semanas..." Mr. Casanova said in this room three weeks ago: "Admit Popular is dismissed and they are conscious of it. The popular party is dismissed and we think it's well rejected. It's where it belongs, where it belongs. For the sake of contusions, corruption, and lack of management, for the sake of submitting to elites, for disturbing self-gravity and the efforts of peace. It's where it belongs. And he'd have to stay in that place." In case there was any doubt left to anyone in this House, he repeated it in Spanish the same day: "The People's Party is downhill. The People's Party is increasingly marginalized, it is increasingly politically and institutionally marginalized in this country, and so it must continue," you said, Mr Casanova. "And that's the way it should go." Moreover, her parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Iriarte, said this week that her group will make a request to convene a full monograph in the Basque Parliament to deal with the damage caused by PP policies in Euskal Herria. And today they have also had the opportunity to announce anti-corruption scams in front of the headquarters of the People's Party. All I ask in this case is coherence, coherence to all parties. What one cannot ask of some is to make a health cord around the People's Party, and then, one way or another, in the case of Elkarrekin We can sign a transactional, or in your case voting in favour, because, as Mr Otero said, then, they agree in the vote... But coincidence is not random. Is there no causality, or is there any chance? I think there is no chance, I think it is causality: this coincidence is sought and well sought by Mrs Llanos, and by the representatives of the Elkarrekin Podemos party. There is chance in these coincidences, and what is not possible is to ask for a health cord, which is not spoken of, to do absolutely nothing with the People's Party, demonizing them, in some cases demonizing them, and in other cases, as if nothing had happened, to sign agreements. I ask for consistency from EH Bildu, I ask for consistency from Elkarrekin Podemos, and I also ask for a little coherence from Mrs Llanos and the People's Party. Because, by the way, you haven't told me anything about what happened in Galicia, with an absolute majority of the People's Party. [[Berber]] Yeah, yeah. You're not Galician, you're not extreme. It has already become clear to me that it is neither Galician nor extremist, but, to see, we are talking about a conflict of similar characteristics, with the same service, in the same temporary space, that is, a couple of weeks ago. Some thought should deserve this! That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Basque Populars and the middle line that the Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u34	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "Moution, introduced by the Congressman of the Basque Barroo Barrio Barkal Group, on the project of the "EstMelebau" program. "Mortion, Joseph Ramone Becerra Carollo, the member of the Podemos team, to build, provide, and explore the Spanish mansion of the St. Neutrotres by European Spelio, the General Administration of the State, and the US Autonomia Eremic Society." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u35	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. This motion is raised in line with the question addressed to Mrs Uriarte, a member of this Government and chairman of the governing council of the Spanish headquarters of the European source of neutrons by spalling, ESS-Bilbao, and we have tabled the corresponding motion, already announced in the submission of that inquiry. Our purpose is the transfer of the treaty into the substance of the inquiry, of that concern expressed in relation to the attitude of the Basque Government and its commitment to the development of the European source and its headquarters in Bilbao; that the Basque Government commits itself to this motion, seriously, to the development, with the definitive, budgetary, operational and concept requirements, in the construction and implementation of the aforementioned infrastructure. And let it be done at the same time, in unison, in agreement, as has been done so far, with the Government of Spain. The Secretariat of State for Research, Development and Innovation has already expressed its willingness to make that journey. The Basque Government must now cast doubt, confirm its confidence in the European scientific project and act accordingly, something which was not very clear to us in the handling of the question to the Councilwoman. The ESS-Bilbao Governing Council at its meeting of 12 June 2015 approved, inter alia, an agreement for Spanish participation in the ERIC, and a draft addendum to the 2010 ESS-Bilbao Partnership Agreement. We talked about that the other day. The agreement agreed that, once the Spanish participation was formally formalised, the consortia would carry out the respective internal procedures for the amendment of the convention of 30 December 2010, through the approval of the addendum. The Governing Council's agreement to amend the consortium agreement specified that the minimum amount of disbursements to be made by each of the administrations between 2017 and 2025 for construction costs would be EUR 44,22 million. Following the adoption of these agreements, the Secretariat of State for Budgets and Expenditures issued a mandatory report on this accession in October 2015. The report states that the international agreement through which Spain's participation in ESS-ERIC would be formalised requires adequate and sufficient budgetary funding, which would in principle be guaranteed with the prior subscription of the said addendum (before subscription of the said addendum). The Secretariat of State immediately informed the Basque Government of this circumstance. The Secretariat of State for Research, Development and Innovation has repeatedly reiterated the attempt to enter into negotiations with a view to consensus and approval of an amendment to the Convention, which lays down the agreements reached by the administrations at the Governing Council in June 2015 and which will enable the necessary preconditions for integration into ESS-ERIC to be met. The Basque Government has not so far agreed to amend the convention. The arguments used by the representatives of the Basque Government culminate in all their replies to the Secretariat of State in which they are waiting for the General Administration of the State to proceed, to sign the ESS-ERIC agreement as founding partner, all of which is based on the agreements adopted at the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council on 12 June 2015. I mean, what steps are there to achieve accession in April 2018 under the agreed conditions? The approval of the accession to the 2010 partnership agreement is the first and essential step for Spain to apply for membership as a founding partner in the ESS-ERIC. The addendum should contain the 2017-2025 funding table. The ERIC Board approved a further extension until April 2018, but on condition that none of the deadlines for the delivery of the work packages assigned to ESS-Bilbao be met. Since September 2015, the General Administration of the State has offered the Government the signature of the addendum, the text of which is prepared and known to the Basque Government. That's the reality, and that's the truth. In order to be able to meet the commitments entered into in 2017, the General Administration of the State has also included in the general budget proposal of the State of 2017 a legislative proposal authorizing the borrowing of ESS-Bilbao in 18 million euros, which would be covered by 4 million euros of Feder fund and 14 million euros from Chapter VIII of the expenditure budget of the Secretariat of State for Research, Development and Innovation, and which would be amortized from the financing of the two administrations in 2018-2025, to 50 %. The processing of loans of this amount, once approved the general budgets of the State 2017, will require the prior approval of the governing council of ESS-Bilbao, which also implies the approval of the Basque Government, which has one of the two votes of that governing body. I mean, here we are talking about the capacity and what the Basque Government has to do. We are in the Basque Parliament, Mr Becerra, and it must also be the Basque Government that has to act as a priority. The Government of Spain is already doing its job. He's already doing it. I've already explained it to him. That is to say, agreements and commitments to be developed by the Basque Government. I do not know whether Mrs Uriarte or Mrs Tapia, but the Basque Government, which has this subject pending. And you, Mrs Uriarte, must give assurances to the Secretariat of State that they will be loyal and that they will comply with the agreement. That is why we have tabled the motion as a result of an inquiry. We have tabled a motion; we have seen that there is a compromise text, but our motion was clear: we are in the Basque Parliament, and we were urging the Basque Government. We said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government (it was the attitude of the Basque Government that we were concerned about in the inquiry, Mr Becerra; it was the attitude of the Basque Government that we were mainly concerned about at the time), the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to "within one month" – and in that we agree, with the deadline – "agree with the Spanish Government to process Spain's application for membership as a member of the ERIC-European Spallation Source". We had already talked about it, I have already commented, why that was going to be so: the addition, the normal processing of the application to the ERIC of the two administrations..., as they had conceived, as all this action had been conceived from the beginning, since Mrs Celaá was a counselor, and she was also perfectly involved in this project, and how it has been developed since then. And the Government of Spain was also urged, and the Basque Government, in relation to this issue, to commit and agree definitively – logically that was part of the addendum – "the commitments and the financing schedule both for the needs of this year 2017 and for the definitive construction and equipment of the Spanish headquarters of the European Neutrons Source by Espalación, concretely the respective contributions of the period 2018-2025". It was a very clear, very concrete motion, in relation to the concern that we had maintained and expressed in that question by the attitude of the Basque Government, that attitude of mistrust, that attitude of backwardness that we had identified, and in that sense we presented that motion. That motion we are going to maintain, regardless of what we can also do with the vote on the compromise amendment before us. Of course, the compromise amendment is different, isn't it? We are in the Basque Parliament, but it is already urging the Spanish Government first. Not seeking a concert, not seeking the agreement: already making a direct instance to the Government of Spain, to something to which the Government of Spain has already committed, if the Basque Government gives it the guarantees. If you give him the guarantees, if you remember what's left! But, well, let's understand that we can subscribe to the issue. "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to apply for Spain's membership as a founding partner of the European Infrastructure Consortium within a maximum period of one month...". Well, we can understand that. Good. We'd like for that to have been a little more in agreement, a little more sensitivity between... but, well, it doesn't seem to have been possible. I suppose the Nationalist Party will have influenced yours. And I will also understand, I will understand that, once the Government of Spain sees this initiative, the first thing it does is to say: "There goes! They call us from the Basque Parliament to tell us to do this." "Governo Vasco" – Government of Spain – "Let's do this. We agree, don't we? We are going to negotiate, because the Basque Parliament is asking us to do something we have to do with you." And that should have been clearer, Mr Becerra, in the final compromise amendment. And if not, he wouldn't have signed. I am sure I will vote in favour of the compromise amendment, but that compromise amendment is not fair, Mr Becerra. That compromise amendment is not fair. The Government of Spain is given the burden, and it seems that then, in a row... If it is the attitude that Mrs Uriarte has at the moment, I assure you that we do not know what can happen at any rate, however much the Basque Parliament urges you to do so. It should have been more determined that motion. Of course, we will vote in favour of ours. We will understand that we must also facilitate the fact that we continue to take steps forward, and that is why we will not, of course, oppose the compromise amendment, but, Mr Becerra, we have taken a step backwards with the compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Becerlo, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u37	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Well, in the full control of last day 7 we asked the government about its plans to reactivate the Basque headquarters project from the source of neutrons by spalling, better known as ESS-Bilbao, and our inquiry into such an important matter, as the motion today, were made and made with a constructive talent. The important thing is not so much who is to blame, but who has the solution, and what each one can bring for that solution to arrive in time. And I stress that it comes in time, because the current situation of ESS-Bilbao is more compromised than is being said. At this point it is appropriate to recall what ESS-Bilbao is and what it represents in economic, employment, research and industrial terms. We have in our hands a project to develop cutting-edge technology that employs almost 70 highly qualified people and has the opportunity to be part of a European project of the highest technological and scientific level. It is also a project that was launched by the highest Basque and Spanish political authorities, at a time of economic boom, in order to get Euskadi to host the main headquarters of the European project. And yet, once the head office stayed in Sweden, the cuts in funding on the one hand, and the various kinds of disagreements that have taken place on the other, have led the project to a critical situation, almost on the verge of disappearance, as I said. In a colloquial way, once we have lost the gold medal, it seems that we are opting to throw the silver medal into the trash. And it is that sometimes from the political point of view we are not aware that behind the medals, the tapes and the openings that accompany every new project there are also people who are trusting their future to that project, for that project to come forward, for that project to allow them adequate professional performance and a decent livelihood. And in this case there are sixty-five people, most of them with high technical and human qualifications. That is why it is important not to direct the debate to the past, but to the future. And that's why Elkarrekin's approach We can last day 7 was not to focus on the political and personal disagreements that have been unravelling the project, but on highlighting the advantages for employment and the Basque economy of keeping a project like ESS-Bilbao alive. So I will repeat at this point in my speech the factors that a project of these characteristics needs in order to succeed. It said on the 7th: One, a determined and undisturbed political support. And it is true that it is urgent for the central government to request its accession to the European consortium of ESS, and we mention this in our motion, but also for the Basque government to confirm its commitment to maintaining its seat in Euskadi and to once again close important issues, such as the timetable for economic contributions. I agree with you, Mr Barrio, that institutional loyalty is fundamental. The second important issue is that there should be stable and unsurprising funding, enabling the consortium to meet the project milestones and the international commitments made without delays or financial constraints. Thirdly, there needs to be a clear and realistic scientific project, enabling collaboration between the University of the Basque Country and the consortium through shared and consensual lines of work, but also taking into account both the capacities of the local business fabric and the specific constraints of an international project such as ESS-Bilbao. And it is clear that the three factors are necessary, but they are also interdependent: we cannot talk about decisive political support if there is no funding; there is no funding unless it provides sufficient political support and the institutional loyalty to which Mr Barrio referred, and there cannot be a clear and realistic project without institutional and economic support that on the one hand gives him the initial impetus, but then also facilitates his attachment to the industrial, scientific and academic fabric of the country. And that's exactly what the ESS-Bilbao consortium doesn't have right now, means. The original agreement provided for funding of EUR 180 million, which was subsequently halved, and since 2013 there has been no economic contribution, but the project's milestones at European level remain unchanged. So the consortium has had to redefine its way of functioning and adapt to cuts, because the essential thing in such a project is to meet the commitments made at the international level. And, therefore, if there is no money, we will have to reassess the objectives and try to make the end result the best as possible. Basque science and industry will have to play with the cards we have right now. You'll have to talk to the rest of the players and see how to reorganize the game. What cannot be done is to break the deck; that would be an irresponsible and immature attitude, improper of those who have to govern the destiny of this country. There are still economic and social sectors in this country that are in the crisis, despite what is said, and affected by cuts in public contributions, and the research and science sector is undoubtedly one of them. And the ESS-Bilbao is a fine example of that. Therefore, and although I agree with Mr Barrio that this motion obviously does not have the optimum result, it is a sufficient agreement that we believe should be the first step in a new stage for ESS-Bilbao and for Basque research in the field of particle acceleration. And because we hope that this agreement will also enable us to unlock the institutional incommunicado situation that has brought us here. We understand that goals as important as employment, technological development or the promotion of indigenous scientific talent must always be – and I stress the word "always" – above political and personal differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u38	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Becerra said that we should not focus on the past, but rather look to the future, and I believe that in this case we should know the account of what has happened, in order to have a good dimension to the situation and why we are going to support the compromise amendment that we have signed. Because, look, in the last legislature this issue of the source of neutrons was dealt with by scattering on various occasions in this House, both in plenary and in committee, and there have been not very few appearances and interventions that have taken place, nor the positions on this project. We could see that the subject of ESS-Bilbao has gone through very uncertain stages, so that on 2 May 2013 an amendment was unanimously adopted in this plenary, on the proposal of a socialist initiative, which explained the support of the Basque Parliament for the source of neutrons by spreading ESS-Bilbao as a key infrastructure of the scientific and technological framework of Euskadi. The Basque Government was urged to demand that the Government of Spain fulfil its economic obligations with regard to this unique scientific-technical infrastructure. The governing bodies of ESS-Bilbao were urged to urgently clarify the balance between efforts to implement an indigenous facility and those directed to ESS AB-Lund. The importance of the service that ESS-Bilbao was providing from the very beginning to the development of the Basque science industry was highlighted. It also highlighted and recognized the role that the UPV was called to play in this important scientific and technological field. A new presentation of the basic project of ESS-Bilbao, validated by the Scientific Advisory Commission and approved by the Governing Council, was supported, which addressed and detailed the general and specific objectives, technical memory, plans, budgets, timetable, equipment, laboratories, facilities and building. What does this sound like? What does what we bring today sound like, what we've been talking about? Well, as I said to you, May 2, 2013, an initiative unanimously adopted in this House. Later, in October 2013, a few months after the approval of this initiative, with the appearances of the directors of ESS-Bilbao (the executive director and the scientific director), in that appearance requested by Mrs. Isabel Celaá was explained the evolution of the project, its meaning, the strategic importance, its impact on Basque science, its connection with ESS AB, and, ultimately, the capacities developed so far. And in summary, let me, perhaps a bit crude, because appearances are often extensive, but it was concluded from those appearances that, being faced with a unique opportunity, what was done until then was valid. If one saw the danger of not retaining the two fundamental qualities that the project contained in the statutes: one, its development as an autonomous installation, and which also served the interests of what the European installation also meant. And then there was talk of the fundamental need to define a project not only to serve Sweden, but what it meant by Basque own development capacity. On 8 April 2014, after the redefinition of Spanish participation in the international project almost a month ago, a new stage was opened, and we were told by the Basque Government that the project was oversized, and that Spanish participation increased from 10% to 5%, with a contribution of 90 million euros instead of the 180 million initially foreseen. And the challenge was then, from a scientific and technological point of view, that ESS-Bilbao would become a strategic knowledge centre in neutron science and technology, developing equipment and systems to be tested in the test banks to be built and implemented in ESS-Bilbao, which would serve both the European source and other international projects. And that's one of the keys to this. That decision for the Basque Socialists was a wrong decision. That is how we express it and that is how we express it at the time, both in the appearances and in this House, because it was upsetting with what was expected in the original project. A position that, moreover, from the discomfort, we repeated later on several times. And, reoriented and redefined the project, in 2015 is constituted this consortium, the ERIC-ESS, in which it has agreed with the international partners the participation of the Spanish State, for the moment as observer partner. And today the uncertainties are still present, unfortunately, because the funding is not resolved, Mr Barrio, because the state budgets have not yet been approved, and because the State has not yet subscribed to the ERIC-ESS as a founding partner, although there is an extension granted, as you well stated. The conditions for accession have not been met. And the Basque Government, responding to the calls made to them a few weeks ago, stated that it had worked tirelessly all this time to ensure Spain's subscription to ERIC-ESS; and not as an observer partner, because in this way there is no capacity to ensure the availability of work packages of scientific interest. The only way to secure these work packages assigned to ESS-Bilbao with certain guarantees for the period 2017-2025 was for Spain to sign the agreement to join the ERIC as founding partner. That is why we put it in the amendment that we have negotiated with the Basque Nationalist Group and with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and that will also support Bildu, and, as I said, also the People's Party. If we take into account that the objectives of this project are to have a positive impact on R & D+i and to reverse the economic development of Euskadi, to enable us to position ourselves as reference points in the acceleration of particles at international level, we should mention the proponents of the motions, or to position ourselves also with regard to the concern of the Government on the non-compliance with the fundamental objectives of this collaboration. And I want to thank Elkarrekin Podemos, and also the People's Party, which has understood that the issue of the UPV, the university, and the collaboration with ESS-Bilbao, and the impact this issue can have on the Basque scientific industry, are really issues that have been agreed upon and we have been able to transfer them to that compromise amendment. Because it is indeed a problem – the Basque Government understands and we understand the parties that we support the Government – the fact that this collaboration with the University of the Basque Country has not been achieved to date. It does not seem to me that the Government raises those problems which it sees in the project when a substantial and important economic contribution must be made. Otherwise it would be denouncingable, so I understand. And that is why the amendment we have tabled, which is now also reflected in the transaction, must serve to ensure that Basque companies have the capacity and are growing in the provision of equipment and in their work for ESS-Bilbao. Because it is worrying – at least to the Basque socialists it seems to us – it is worrying that ESS-Bilbao is focused on doing more work linked to engineering than with the added and scientific value of contributions to Lund. It is also worrying that there is no record of any significant increase in neutronic-related industrial activity or production in Euskadi as a result of investments made so far. And we believe that the contribution of the Basque economy, the contribution of Euskadi, our contribution, must, first of all, ensure that Basque companies will be awarded the contracts that ESS-Bilbao promotes, but today, there is no guarantee of that. And we also believe that it should be ensured that research groups will develop in this area beyond the period of construction of the source of neutrons by spreading. Nor is there any guarantee today, from the management of ESS-Bilbao, that this will happen. That is why the amendment we have managed to achieve is important. For steps are taken, Mr Carmelo Barrio; we believe that steps are taken forward. It is significant that we can carry out, at least today, an amendment unanimously, before a draft of an international character, which we know that any doubts that may arise in this field may suppose that we are dynamising the project itself; that by trying to do good, with great voluntarism, we can carry out a matter that is vitally important for the Basque economy, for Basque science, for Basque industry, and also for the University of the Basque Country. That is why I believe that I have been able to demand certain issues, such as cooperation with the University of the Basque Country; to have also achieved the fact of the impression in the Basque science industry, and to have reached an agreement unanimously, is not going to be any baladí question, but we will take another step. To some it may seem little, scarce or small, but it will have been a step forward, which seems to me to be very important in the times ahead, and above all before the unknowns that have been raised at the moment ESS-Bilbao. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u41	Chief of Parliament, ma'am, Congressman, good day to all. I think that this discussion of the ESSPEND, and to instruct the arguments I am about to explain as far as I am concerned, ought to be made clear beforehand. First, we ought to remember that this partber called ESS-Murbau was founded with two fundamental purposes: The ESS Bill of Sales, on the one hand, had the residence of the Spanish Fountain of Neutrotres by Spales, and, on the other hand, to produce an independent investigation centre, specialised in the acceleration of particles in the development of science and technology. That is to say, this centre, attached to the General Administration of the State, and placed in Bilbon, must answer to these two purposes, in order that the project may be well developed, and that the challenges which have prevailed from Euskaca may be fulfilled. Later on, the European career project has continued its own evolution, and in 2015, through the 723/2009 Rule of the European Council of June 25th, the European Party was formed for the Sub-Structure of Research. By this means, through the evolution of the European project, and the origin of the European system, the constant intervention of Spain in this European community is indispensable to the development of the fundamental end and the development of scientific and technological programs, the development of the combination and the source of Europe, with all its guarantees. And this is the only guarantee, that is, sine qua non condition, we should say. That's why our staff of lawmen is aware of it, as the head of the Cristina Uriarts in the interpenetration of this mutation was the origin of this kind, so the Euskonka has done all the efforts to provide for this member of Spain, not merely as a mere observer, but as a member of the community. This co-worker requires formal entry into a State belonging to the European Union, and hence it concerns the State of Spain to confine it exclusively to this part of it. And why is this attachment to the state indispensable? The fact that it is a complete observer of the scientific work parcels is a small ability to ascertain the availability of scientific interest. And I'm probably being generous when I'm saying a little of my ability. And by the law above mentioned, one of the fundamental ends is this: Science value. If then Spain does not enter into the world as a creator, the end will hardly be possible. Secondly, that if, as I was saying, it does not enter into Spain as a creator, the end will hardly be possible, all the rest are conditioned by this first point. Like funding. Since the beginning of 2015, both administrations have been plunged into a negotiation process, in the context of the European ERIC-ESS partucer, the future of the co-operation of the ESS-Gubauer. So the Basque Administration, and the State, on the 12th of June 2015, received an agreement at the ESSMurba Council. In this arrangement, both parties were engaged in determining their partnership in this new frame of Europe, as soon as Spain began to participate in the European part of the RIC-ESSEzer. So I would like you to make a difference, gentlemen Barrio and Becerra: there's no need to arrive at the admission agreement of the Basque and State Government in Spain in a month's time. It was two years since the consent of the two years since, and all the rest are conditioned by the introduction of Spain to the European division. It would be sufficient here, if the State were to fulfil its promise, or keep their engagements. And it is not that I want to urge Parliament or the Government of Spain to throw out balloons. I might not have to urge the Government of Spain, but this is the reality. The decision taken in the two councils was the result of a negotiation, and because they agreed that both of them, for the period of 2016-2025, were the only means of entering into the European part of Spain as the founder of business parcels given to ESS BUbao. For this reason, to enter as a productive partner in the European ERIC-ESS partzer, would have had only one formula to justify the massive economic commitments which would have to be taken in the industrial budgets of Euscal Autonomy. Since the treaty of June 12th, 2015, this fun has been constantly asking for the performance of what has been agreed on, and has asked more than once that Spain should sign to be a creative partner in the European ERIC-ESS parteruer. But it hasn't happened before today. Besides, in the same editor, the resolution was not to make any new economic contributions to the ESS-Gabao, because it was sufficient for the development of the project while the entrance to the European quarter of the RIC-ESS was negotiated. In the meantime, M. M. M.M. has fulfilled his word and commitments, and until the state has fulfilled its responsibilities, he has two games open for this year's budgets in the Ekonomical series of education and developments, with a series of years' character, on the 12th of June, 2015, awaiting the success of these games. Again, let us remember that in this agreement both the administrations were engaged to determine their trade between 2025, from the time that Spain began to participate in the European of the RIC-Escundian part of Europe. Third, to make a proper picture of the situation, we need to talk about the ESS-Puba center. Because the second chief purpose of the project has been to promote contact with our university investigators, especially with the public schools, paying attention to their scientific and technological ailments. On the other hand, it is also part of this purpose that we enter into the evolution of our minds in technology. Our goals are clear as to the ESS Billo. Let one have a positive influence on the I+G; two, that this positive influence may become the economic development of our people; and three, in the degree of nationality, in the acceleration field of particles, enable us to act as a reform. These are the reasons that really concern us, and these reasons convey to us that there is a manifest deviation of the fundamental ends of this society. The other is, because the relationship with the researchers in the Basque Country is very small, that is to say, nothing. But, moreover, beyond the context of the centre, because it is not an increase in the fundamental investigations of the neutralal region as the result of investments. Any of the teams in the Basque Country University I've mentioned, with smaller people and resources, has a wider scientific production. In 2015, the ESS Bill Management Executive Science, Technology, and Renewing Network Expulsion claimed as a technator of technological technology. This demand was resolved by the council at 2016, and gave a resolution against it, for the present documentation did not sufficiently prove that it occupied the conditions of being an acre in that category. So if we have to make an important contribution, it will be ESS Bill, and it is written that from the very beginning, so that our companies also may have the ability to provide for the support of their teams for the ESSBava. The economic contributions of Euscal Autonomia Errigo, and the great effort which it supposes, do not at this moment guarantee that the Basque Corporation will be a good co-ordination of contracting the ESS-Purbas, or that the range of investigators will be a development of this area which can subsist beyond the source of European reproduction. So we have to go back to this situation. On this score, I would like to highlight our entire commitment to this tribe today. These are the points which concern us, and according to them, and the time of our proposals to arrive at either intermediate or later correction which we made at first. And we understand, we understand, that the hour of the medium we have signed is also derived from that way. You said it cost you a little bit, so did I, but honestly, I'm really happy today. I believe that we have established a minimum of firmness, and on this side our engagement will be carried away even at the time in which we next present ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The next round of any non-correction, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u43	Well, I can only begin by thanking Mr Latxaga for repeating my words here today, which in the previous plenary session, in a somewhat rough way, I managed to issue from this rostrum. But once you have repeated them, I believe that they have been understood much better, and I also take the opportunity to subscribe to them fully and to reiterate their vigour. But, jokes aside, let us go to the subject before us, to the project of ESS-Bilbao, a project that at the time was called to be a flag or flagship of Basque science and technology, that if it had materialized in its initial conception, if it had become the headquarters of the European project of the source of neutrons by spread, would undoubtedly have been the most important scientific and technological project of this country. And that today – I don't know if to say today, or at least until yesterday – is about to end as the rosary of the dawn: of flagship and flag of science and technology, on the edge of the precipice. That is the situation to which both have led to this project. And fortunately I say that perhaps until yesterday I was in this situation, because as a result of the agreement that will be signed in this House unanimously today, I understand, then, at least we will have a road map to put an end to the misconceptions that have been surrounding this issue. It is clear that governments, both governments, have not been aware of efficiency and discretion in solving the problems which are in any project. It's normal that there's a problem with the ESSGaba's project: It's a complex project. There's different administrations involved, and there's also difficulty in technology. Of course, it's normal that there are problems, technical, political, economic, and also people's management. It's normal having problems. But since we're having problems, we've had to make the whole project a problem, which is unacceptable, which is not acceptable. The management of ESS-Bilbao has become a paradigm of how not to manage a project of this nature. We are coming, or we have come to a situation – which, as I said, I hope from now on lives a turning point and a change of trend – in which we attend a game of lighthouses by the administrations, with a set of one euro, with 18 million matches that in reality are not 18 million, but are of credits like "invite me, but we pay half"... Finally, a certain game of obscurantism, of beacons and of not wanting to clearly assume responsibilities, which has led the project to a limit situation. And I have to say with regret, that we are giving the show, although some of us are not part of the governments concerned and responsible, but as a country we are giving the show. As families used to say "good" – in quotes – from before, we are giving to talk. I imagine that there will be people in Europe right now, at the highest levels of responsibility for these kinds of issues, even at Lund's headquarters at the source of spread, who will be glad not to have given the Spanish State the central and main seat of the project, in view of the conflicts that are generating the management of a part subordinate to the project, much greater than the project as a whole. If to manage 90 million we are binding in this way, to know if we are worthy to be granted the management of 1.8 billion of a project of this nature! But we hope, as I said, that the agreement today is a point of inflammation, because we have a chance to start. Different propositions and corrections have been proposed in this subject. There have been three parties in which proposals or corrections have been proposed, and we have not made the whole affair, although we have followed it very closely, because we agreed on a treaty, and we believe that we have helped it, although in this agreement the will of all has been indispensable. And that's the way it was, because there's been a deal of will. We could basically ask four questions: to request entry into the ERIC; to have an agreement between the Basque Government and the Government of the Spanish State to guarantee this year's funding; and to have a second agreement to guarantee funding until 2025; and to review certain issues related to the project, with the redefinition of the research centre, with the recruitment policy, and other similar issues. The People's Party was merely asking for entry into the ERIC, in this case urging the Basque Government to urge the Spanish Government in turn. Secondly, he also mentioned the need to establish funding commitments. And the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party again called for entry into the ERIC, and it also added issues that we believe are also important and that have been incorporated into the final agreement, such as improved collaboration with the university, the UPV in particular, and the Basque Science and Technology Network, as well as with the country's corporate fabric. Indeed, we did not believe that there were inconsequentities between the several elements proposed, and that it would be possible for us to arrive at an agreement which would involve them all. And so it was. Of course, as is always the case with any agreement, there's been a lot of effort from everyone, everyone has left some hair in the gate, but at last it's come to that agreement. And we believe that the agreement really marks the path to solution, for the first time it clears things around RIC. Because all the proposals and the amendments understood that it was essential, as it is, to enter this ERIC, in this new model of governance that is established in Europe for large-scale scientific projects and infrastructures, because that is what will give us the way to then be able to attract interesting projects to Bilbao. As there was unanimity on this issue, that point is reflected. Secondly, a fundamental issue, which is also very related, because the entry into that ERIC implies that funding conditions are established that give seriousness and credibility and support the project in the medium and long term. And indeed that second question is also reflected in the agreement that we have reached, and it is to be established, or it is requested that the necessary timetables be established by the central governments and the community to ensure the financing of the project until 2025. And one last point that we also think is important, and from the point of view of our group it has not had to be any concession in the negotiation, but we also take as our own the need to include it, is the question that refers to a better integration of the ESS-Bilbao project, both in the university and research fabric and in the Basque Science and Technology Network, as well as in the area of serving as a tractor project for the development of industry in the country and to helping it to advance in the development of new technologies, new applications, to be a tractor project in the technological field as well. Therefore, once this agreement was established, as I said earlier, we hope that it will become a turning point for a project that has been a permanent focus of conflict; a project that in fact was complex and could give rise to abundant management problems, but which, beyond that, I believe has been affected by a lack of structural agreement and mismanagement by the administrations involved. From now on, and with this road map that we have set up today, we understand that it would be possible to turn this situation around and to highlight the project, which actually has great potential and which can effectively not only contribute to the generation of high-skilled jobs, but, as I said earlier, become a tractor for research and industry in this country. If everyone agrees to comply with what we have signed today, we would move on and enter into real, economic, but also social and scientific profitability, a project that really has to stop becoming a source of problems and become a source of solutions to different problems in this country. We have reached consensus. We are not left with research and technological development centres such as the ESS in this country. We believe that it is important to defend it, we believe that it is important to develop that potential, and we hope that the will expressed by the parliamentary groups today to reach this agreement will then be taken into account by the governments and actually this project will come forward, as it deserves. I would not like to end without acknowledging, as I have also implicitly said, the attitude of the other groups towards reaching agreement, but also the attitude of the ESS-Bilbao works committee and its chairman, Aitor Zugazaga, who I believe have carried out a work of information and permanent contrast with the groups in this House, which has greatly facilitated our awareness and predisposition to the agreement to which we are going to give the green light today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u45	Thank you, President. Also soon. Mr Becerra, you are right, we must look and direct the debate towards the future, in relation to this issue. And the future is ERIC, the future is adjunct, adequacy of the convention and funding, according to the Basque Government with the Secretariat of State. And at the moment it is the Secretariat of the State of Research, Development and Innovation that is asking the Basque Government why not reformulate the convention, that this is the fundamental element at the moment, and it is the call for a response. That is to say, it is a situation of incommunicado detention, but it is a situation of unilateral incommunicado detention, Mr Becerra. And that's the way it is, believe me, that's the way it is. That is why this first point is an unbalanced point, it is a disproportionate point, and I understand that the Government of Spain will hear the appeal of the Basque Parliament, the Basque Parliament's body, but the first thing it will do is to talk on the phone: "Hey, have you urged that? We agree, don't we? We amended the convention, didn't we? We approved the addendum, didn't we?". And that is the fundamental element. That is why, in the dissatisfaction, or in the criticism that we can make of the step backwards involved in the compromise amendment, we will have to give that vote of confidence that this House's pronouncement is a call for the Basque Government to get a little excited. Because, given the other day the sad performance of Mrs Uriarte, in relation to one of the elements that can be a tractor, a dynamism of our economy, of our science, of our innovation; given the other day the sad speech of Mrs Uriarte, of the president of the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council, that's what made us fall to our feet. And we know the other side. And the other side has given us assurances and has told us that they are looking forward to that agreement, to the signing of that agreement. But there has to be..., two don't do it if you don't want to, and, in that sense, that's the fundamental element. I agree, Mrs Corcuera has made a historical and situational approach, and I believe that the good thing, regardless of the difficulties and vicissitudes, is that it has been guaranteed to arrive at the moment we are now. But now we have to act. It has been guaranteed by the administrations, in one way or another, with these vicissitudes and with these problems, and now we must act. And indeed the Secretariat of State is committed to the project, and the Basque Government is rare, the Basque Government is frightened about this issue. And that is the fundamental element: at one site there is commitment, regardless of the problems or regardless of the assessment of the economic-budgetary commitment (we already know that we are at a difficult time!), but the Basque Government is strange and very frightened, very sad on this issue. And the enthusiasm would have to come that way. A headquarters of these characteristics in Euskadi, with the development that has to do with, of course, yes, of course, with the support of companies, and with the benefit for companies, and with the agreements that are needed with the University of the Basque Country and the rest of the universities or training centers of this country, of course yes! But first we must commit ourselves to it, to the project, to the construction, to development, to the start-up, to the forty-four million euros that must be put on the table in that agreement to which the Secretariat of State for Research, Development and Innovation is prepared, which has said it a thousand times, and the Government does not reply. That is a fundamental element in relation to this issue. Of course it is, of course it's good that you agree with the University of the Basque Country! But that's guaranteed, that's going to happen when the collaboration is the loyal, the normal, the ordinary... Of course I do! It is a way to go, that of a scientific center of these characteristics, with what can be the best of Basque society, and of the rest of the environment and of the Spanish universities, but, well, it is quite clear that installed here where I think it will be a fundamental element, and also an opportunity to leave, in some cases, to the University of the Basque Country of some shortcomings that it has. I mean, that's a chance for everyone. Of course our companies too..., much of our technology companies are perfectly prepared to collaborate with the ESS-Bilbao project. Perfectly prepared. They're already doing it, and they've already demonstrated their ability to do it. And also in the visits that we have had historically to the ESS-Bilbao, when we have been with the scientific direction, with the management, with the workers, with the engineers, with the physicists, with the physicists..., we have been told that there were actually companies prepared, and in that sense that is what we want to do. I'm not going to argue with Mr. Urrutia. It is clear that he has to defend the position. But I want to tell you to bond. Man, to say that of course a commitment credit is budgeted for several years... I remind you, Mr Urrutia, that the Basque Government has budgeted two euros. Two euros! Two euros, eh! We were talking the other day about what two euros were for (for a package of generic neutrons), and in that sense, I think we need to be a little more serious. But, well, that's it. The fundamental thing is that we can work, and of course encourage him..., is not the counselor, but encourage him a little; that he is not so sad, that he gets excited, I don't know, that he doesn't move in distrust.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u46	Please, Mr. Carmelo, please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u47	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u48	Thank you, Mr. Carmelo. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u49	I, Mr Barrio, agree in part with the analysis you can make of the current situation, but I do believe that there are no good and bad here. Even if I hurry, I'd say there's no good. Almost everyone has acted wrong at some point. Mrs Corcuera rightly says that we have been going through this since 2013, and she also says that we have worked tirelessly. Well, neither, either. I'd say, tirelessly, no one's worked here. No one has worked: neither the Basque Government nor the central Government. Heinera, Urrutia jaunak esan of the "Eusko Jaurlaritzak etenbe eskatu of the baina ez of the estantzunik lortu". Baina, equal ez of egiteko eskaerak momentua baizik eta eskaintzak egiteko momentua be bai. It is not only the time to ask, but also the time to offer. It is time for generosity in favour of a common project which, as Mr Urrutia has also said, was indeed born with two objectives. From the goals... The second is not very clear, but obviously there were these two objectives. And indeed one of the objectives would have to be to work side by side with the Basque industry and also with the University of the Basque Country. It's done. It's done. Also in the early years it was done fluidly, and it is still done: there are teams from the University of the Basque Country working with ESS-Bilbao. Less than before, it's true, but there are. The Basque industry also works with ESS-Bilbao. 77% of contracts are now awarded to the Basque industry. Why don't you work any more? Well, obviously because there's no money. When a project is reduced by half of the budget, the focus of the two objectives must be on the inescapable objective of fulfilling international commitments. And it must be understood that both the central government and the Basque government claim one thing which is the square of the circle: they claim, as in health and education, to do the same with half. But that in advanced science is simply impossible. The cuts always affect the quality of the final result, yes or yes. And we have to take that into account, and I have already said that it is not a question of looking to the past, but of looking to the future, and re-evaluating the objectives to the extent that we have money. And I want to be grateful to EH Collect, because they have understood very well what the purpose of this motion is, they have understood from the beginning that we must necessarily protect the ESS-Puba, and very well understood that it is a popular purpose to promote research and technological projects. This is a country target. It is a country objective, because if we want to gain international prestige for Basque R & D we need to support this project, because it is the only European project that is currently based in the Basque Country. And if one day we want to have a compact source of neutrons (which, by the way, costs 200 million euros and we should put them), which was one of the initial objectives of ESS-Bilbao, because, of course, what we are not going to achieve is to be a reference, as you said, Mr Urrutia, if we let ESS-Bilbao fall. Because then the international discredit of Euskadi will be capital. And that is why I understand that the agreement that we have reached, without being the best one and without being the best one, is the one that is necessary to set a starting point so that from now on ESS-Bilbao has a new stage, perhaps more exciting, as Mr Barrio says, but of course with other attitudes and with a political impulse and with an institutional loyalty that has certainly not been seen so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u51	Yes, thank you, President. Soon. Without a doubt, funding for any project is important, and in this case it is essential, but such funding must be adequate for the purposes and objectives to be pursued. And it is clear that there are issues in this draft that need to be clarified and that need to be cleared up and made clear to the south, if we really commit ourselves to being founding partners of ERIC, as the intention of the Basque Government, which has been demonstrated, because we have signed that amendment. And it is worrying that scientific production is scarce in Euskadi in relation to other local research centres, and it is worrying that there is an appeal from the Basque Government itself to the management of ESS-Bilbao to work more on the provision of equipment and in general on the relationship with our business fabric. And it is also true that, as is often said, past water does not move mills, but it did seem important to me to make it clear that this project has not had a peaceful or simple trajectory. And it seems to me that the current project, despite having been distorted, as I said, since February 2014, as we Socialists have also said through our colleague Isabel Celaá, at least it continues to have broad political support in this House. But – I said at the beginning of my speech – the main thing here is to act with rigour, with prudence, but also to have very clear objectives that we intend to achieve with this investment, which is not small, even if we have reached a 5% participation instead of 10%, as this project originally had. And look, Mr. Barrio, when you talk about enthusiasm, my colleague Isabel Celaá..., you have not seen a more enthusiastic woman with this project I think of all those who have been in the previous legislature and this one. But it's true that everyone can't have the mood you want; then, of course, we'll all end up going to therapy if you don't see us excited! I hope not, but good. I think the projects are really excited to believe in them. Then another thing is how we know how to manifest it, and some of us are a little more cheerful and others are a little less cheerful. But I believe that the important thing here is to be rigorous, and I believe that if the Basque Government is stating that there are a number of problems, and we have been able to pick them up in a compromise amendment, that is what is good, even if neither the Education Councillor nor the Economic Development and Infrastructure Councillor jump out of joy. We can't pretend that others do what we haven't had anyway. Because neither in your time nor in the past parliamentary term did all the political groups, everyone expressed that enthusiasm that you have raised here today in the rostrum. And see how enthusiastic the thing will be, that even a non-amendment group (the agreed amendment) has signed the amendment. But, well, we have already solved the mischief, so I think the main thing is that the groups we have signed and all the groups support that amendment that we have managed to bring forward. I think that is the real enthusiasm of this House. And I just hope that we do not disappoint and that the expectations that we are generating and that we are creating will be consolidated. Because, in addition to expectations, they must become realities. Because the future does not end in 2025, nor with explicit funding from 2017 to 2025. That's not where that project should end. The Euskadi project goes much further than 2025, and it must be that future project so that we really do that investment that we all do, at times as delicate for the economy even if it goes ahead, is a productive and effective investment for Euskadi, for the industry in Euskadi, but also for the university and research in Euskadi. I believe that is, in short, the objective of everyone. I do not think that when there are problems between administrations, the best way to reach agreements or ways of acting between administrations is to put forward certain initiatives, because I am convinced that the problems will continue even though we have given a unanimous initiative here today. The problems will continue to exist between the two administrations, between the State Administration and the Administration of the Basque Government, but we must act in other ways, because I understand that loyalty and complicity are being sought over time. When there had been distrust on the part of the Basque Government of the State administration, because the State was not putting money, we had to continue to drive inter-administration collaboration. The same applies now: you cannot try to ridicule the fact that there is a euro in each department, when you know perfectly well that the important, the substantial and the essential thing is that there really are those items. And there are games. Because we are talking about the state government, the state administration, having money that hasn't approved the budgets. There is no approval of general state budgets today, Thursday! There isn't. And, therefore, let us not give up advanced things that are still, perhaps, in limbo or in uncertainties. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u53	Madam of the Parliament. Mr. Barrio, you said you weren't going to argue with me, but I came with a certain desire, because, of course, the truth is that you have said a few things that, listen, at least provoke me. In his first speech he said that, according to the first point of his initial amendment, he spoke of the one-month deadline for agreeing with the Government of Spain to process Spain's application for membership of the ERIC. This is agreed! He's awake! It is agreed on 12 June 2015 on the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council. I don't know where you see there's anything else to agree on! It is the responsibility of the State, and in any case we hope that it will assume its responsibility. You were talking about compromises. The commitments are made in the same agreement: first the entry into the ERIC-ESS as founding partner, and then everything you talked about (addition, pact, financing, etc., etc.). It is that the reflection to which it leads me is: what is the commitment to leave on wet paper the agreement of 12 June 2015 of the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council? No, don't do this to me, because all you want to do is turn it around. That agreement made it very clear, and I think you read it in your first speech textually, that first it was the entry into the European consortium, and then everything else came. And I believe that the compromise amendment that has been adopted goes in that direction. He said that Spain has budgeted 18 million euros for ESS-Bilbao. Man, propagandistically it may look very good, but what has been done is to include a proposal in the general budgets of the State, an authorization for ESS-Bilbao to be in debt of 18 million. In other words, no economic base has been allowed in this regard. Moreover, such indebtedness should be agreed and approved by the ESS-Bilbao Governing Council, which in any case would be a debt agreement between the two administrations, not only the General Administration of the State. And so far it has not been agreed or approved. On the other hand, the information presented by the Ministry of Finance at the Congress of Deputies, from the state budget for 2017, shows some amounts for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 that do not involve a contribution, that is, do not involve committed credits. To this end, an administrative act should be given in support of such a firm commitment of contribution, and this act has not been given. So, let's go to the fundamentals. And the fundamental, the fundamental element, is Spain's entry into the European consortium in this field. You say that the Government of Spain is fulfilling its commitments. Since when? But if two months after that agreement of 12 June 2015, two months later, the Basque Government finds out from the Official Gazette of the European Communities that Spain has decided to enter as an observer partner and not as a founding partner! Since when have you been fulfilling your commitments? Three months after that June 12, 2015, the Ministry of Economy presents in the Congress of Deputies the commitment to enter as founding partner, and puts as top maximum September 2016. And September 2016 was seven months ago, and we're still in the same situation. On the other hand, listen, look, you can make the joke of the budget of the Basque Government, of the two euros... Well, I think this is a joke that, if it's not demagogic, the truth is that it's ignorant, because the items that don't fit properly into a budget, waiting for events, are equipped with a euro, to keep them open. They are also multi-year in nature, both in the Department of Education and in the Department of Economic Promotion. Besides, listen, I haven't seen you guys bring anything! In your support of the budget, I have not seen that you have contributed anything in this area. If everyone had the commitment of Mrs Uriarte, or if everyone had had the commitment of Mrs Uriarte and Mrs Tapia, this would not have come to Parliament and we would not be debating this issue today. You speak of the "sad act" of the counselor. For I believe that you have not read the transcript of the inquiry, which you answered, because it seemed to me to be clarifying. And, man, don't give us any lessons in innovation! That is, in the period 2013-2016 the Spanish government has lowered the budget in innovation by about 35%, keeping it largely on credit. That is in the years when you have crushed us by saying the great economic boom that Spain has had. And we see, we see how you authorize the financing conditions in the case of ESS-Bilbao. Therefore, please do not come here to undermine the Government's commitment in this area. Mr. Becerra, very briefly. You were talking about medals, that we didn't get the gold medal, and then we wanted to throw the silver medal away. I would like us to start with this commitment at least to get the bronze medal. And from there up, everything that comes. And he was also talking about cuts...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u54	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u55	...and there are things that are worth everything, but I believe that the one that has actually practiced the cut is the Government of Spain. We are waiting for it to comply with its commitments, so that we can provide the items that we have opened, which are said to be only two euros, economically and properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Faraway...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u57	Therefore, our support is determined and uncracked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mr. Casanova, representing EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u59	Yes, good noon again. Our aim with today's debate, with the resolution we are going to agree on, which we have agreed on and which we are going to adopt, was to close ranks in this House to ensure the future of the draft ESS-Bilbao. And when we say "guarantee the future" we mean that that future was not and is not guaranteed. Just three months ago I received a call from a worker from the ESS-Bilbao project, asking me if the fact that this project did not appear in the budgets implied its disappearance and the termination of the contracts. That is, for three months now what is being talked about between the workers of the project is whether it is going to remain standing, whether it is going to remain open, whether it is going to remain in operation, or whether it is going to disappear. We're in that situation. When I said before that we were facing a game of lighthouses among the responsible governments, for that, I was not marking myself a lighthouse, but I was describing a real situation, in which it seems that both the Basque Government and the central Government are doing one of those car races that are seen in the movies, into the abyss, to see who stops first. But, of course, the car that goes into the abyss is ESS-Bilbao's car, and you have to step on the brake, you have to reconsider the issue, and we can't start now saying, "Well, you put the money first. - No, you put it on. "When you put it on, I put it on." "No, you put it..." Hey, let's be serious! And I believe that the agreement that has been reached today is an opportunity precisely, and it is a framework and an appropriate road map for entering a definitive resolution process. Because what has to happen ESS-Bilbao is to be a brown to be an opportunity, and it is indisputable that today for public administrations gives the impression that ESS-Bilbao has been so far a brown, when it is a field with extremely high potential. Lehen aipatu den moduan, horrelako oso proyektu gutxi daude gure herrietan. Particle acceleration, neutronics, is an opportunity for technological developments, for practical engineering developments, but also for creating a school in these areas in our country. Particle accelerators in Europe have a demand for use that triples the supply; that is, it is a functionality that has an important demand, that has a great future. And, hey, these kind of projects don't fall out of the trees, they can't be developed out of nowhere. And since we have this project in our hands, we're going to optimize it and we're going to take out all the potential it has. Because, as I said earlier, we are not going to remain sorry for what might have been and was not, that it could obviously have been a project of a much larger dimension, and we are going to focus on what it really is, and, above all, what it can become. In that regard, we call for the primary responsibility of the administrations and the governments involved. It is true that the Spanish Government is characterized... I used to say that Mr. Becerra put the cuts all over the place... R & D in the Spanish state has been hit by an unusual hack, it has been one of the most suffering fields, and this obviously leads us to think that there has not been an excess of enthusiasm on the part of the central government on this issue either. But Mr Barrio is also right when he says that no enthusiasm on the part of the Basque Government. It gives the impression that it is a project that has burned in their hands. And when Mrs Uriarte described, for example, the lack of relationship with the university, or with the business fabric, it seems that she did so as an observer, as a notary, as a journalist who is analysing a phenomenon outside her responsibility, when she is currently the person who holds the highest responsibility in the governing council. I mean, she's the boss. You, excuse me (I didn't see her, she was there), you're the boss. So don't complain about what you're doing, but work. And I, as I often say, do not ask for results, but at least I ask you to propose ways of solving these problems. If you work little with the Basque industry, work harder. If you don't work much in college, look for ways and channels to make it work that way. Because, as I said before, it is not only important here to generate a series of projects for Lund's headquarters, but it is much more important to serve as a tractor for research, science and technology in this country. In that sense, you are right to claim greater involvement, but you also have to understand that you are one of the people with greater responsibility when it comes to moving forward. We have therefore proposed, as I said earlier, a road map that will enable both Governments to fulfil their responsibilities if they really intend to do so. Any reference that might be offensive or would place a critical burden on one or the other of the governments has been deleted in the amendment, so that they obviously did not hide in that to say that it was a motion of a part. And there you have it, there you have a road map: entry into the ERIC, funding commitments, and improving the interrelationship with the university and business fabric. They've got the road map. It is now the governments who are in a position to develop and fill it with content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u60	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Bario Barroja's motion. Yes, the original type of motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u61	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Eucatis. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u62	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by Guanche Suáz together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, in order to guarantee the revenues of the Professional Euscal Empergue. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u63	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are here to table a motion arising from the publication of the Lanbide criteria document. The first thing I would like to say is that in one way or another, and after the inquiry on day 7, we have all taken a step forward, and with the agreement that we seem to have reached today, although it has been a bit in extremis, I hope that we are taking another step towards good compliance with the regulations for the benefit of the citizen. The publication of the criteria that have been used since 2013 without knowledge of citizenship was a duty of this Government, and it is a joy that they are already published, but we believe that this should not end here. And we believe that it should not end here because the publication alone is not enough, since between January 2013 and December 2016 there have been more than four hundred thousand RGI processings, of which only in 2016 there were more than twenty-six thousand extinctions and suspensions, of which more than five thousand have been for breach of obligations. The criteria document that has been applied since 2014, as far as we know, raised obligations, obligations that respond to those more than 5,000 suspensions that I have appointed a moment ago and which have also disappeared in the document published last night on 6 April. These are obligations that, in addition to having constituted suspensions, are safe and secure, have left many people unsustained. Not the obligations, sorry, but the failure to comply with them. Specifically, by way of any example, more than seven hundred of the abusive collection procedures carried out in 2016 respond to the obligation not to leave the Autonomous Community, which is being applied without knowledge of the citizenry and under the legal clause of having to be permanently available for employment. This, as we see, is an interpretation. But we also see that this interpretation has disappeared in the new criteria document. And now we ask ourselves: is anyone going to Murcia to look for a job no longer available for employment? Is he going to lose his status as a resident in Euskadi? Is he going to apply a measure that no longer exists, nor is it public? Or not? Well, we consider, above all, as I commented on Friday, April 7, that it is not worth saying that these obligations have been communicated to people, that it is not worth saying that this document has not been official, because I already read them, from page 38 of the December 2014 criteria document, when it is clearly established that the new criteria and revised ones would apply from the date of publication of the document (i.e., December 2014, unless otherwise established). With what you can see, this does not speak of the law; it speaks of the criteria document. And this document, therefore, is important, it is obligatory to apply, and, therefore, it was its content. And, therefore, it is necessary to publish it. It must be recognized that the use of this document, in our view at least, has violated the right to information of the perceptor population; a right recognized in the current legislation and also in the legal framework of the Basque Country has been violated. That right recognized as a fundamental right for the full development of a democratic society has been violated, and today's motion is therefore more than necessary. While I was beginning to congratulate ourselves on having more transparent administrations since the publication of this document on 6 April, I will not stop thinking about those who have not seen these rights guaranteed or protected their situation in the past few years, and I believe that none of us should do so. And I believe this because we understand that in addition, in our work of controlling the Government, it is essential to ensure that this is not repeated in the future. I believe that with today's transaction we are taking a step forward in this direction, and I believe that it is also an important step because it comes with the agreement of the whole House. However, I do not want to leave this atrium without you being able to get an idea of why this is so important. I will give you some examples of changes that have occurred between the 2014 document and the 2017 document; changes that, I insist, involve the application or not of obligations to the perceptor population. From the 2014 document, things disappear, such as the ban on movements outside the CAE or temporary absences. It also disappears with regard to unjustified expenditure and income before and after applying for GIR, according to which anyone who spends more than two hundred euros on non-core needs issues could have a default suspension. Some aspects related to social or fictitious registration also disappear. Clarifications on cohabitation units also disappeared, which established that people could not share bank accounts with others who were not part of their cohabitation unit, or could not buy a house with a friend or friend. These issues disappear, and we are afraid of the interpretations that can be made of the regulations. However, I reiterate my joy. I believe that these measures that have disappeared were not just measures, but above all they were not measures that would be covered by the law. And I believe that thanks to the transaction we are presenting today, we are taking a step forward towards better compliance with the law, and above all to prevent things like this from happening again in the future. It is important not to leave to the will of the people who work in Lanbide the application of a rule that has already been given for years, of a norm or of a document that is not a norm, because we know that common sense is sometimes the least common sense of the senses. Personally I am afraid – and perhaps that is why I have insisted or insisted on moving this motion forward – of returning to the time of confusion and free interpretations of a regulation that has long needed an updated regulation, with the changes of the law of 2011. Let us hope that with the reform that comes this can also be arranged, and we also understand that, therefore, this motion makes sense. And I begin to explain its content. We understand that it makes sense because this document of criteria is very important when it comes to managing income security income. And we understand that it makes sense because Lanbide bets to be transparent, to improve management, to have quality certifications... It is essential that within a short time it is ensured that such available information is also accessible. We also believe that this motion must be continued because it is necessary to apply the rules and to provide for the legal certainty of the perceiving persons. We believe that with this motion it is a step forward in that sense. We also believe, and given what the counselor commented on at last week's appearance, that, as this is a living document and will be subject to usual changes or modifications, these changes and modifications must also be public. And, therefore, by publishing this motion or this transaction we are helping to ensure that publicity. And finally, given the changes that this document causes in the exercise of the right, we believe that it is important that the transaction also includes the guarantee of their application from the date of publication. Because this is what the regulations set out, and because it is fair to do so. For it is good enough to always put ahead or in a place of greater importance the premise that people who are in poverty miss their money, or do not comply with the law because they do not want to. Because it is good enough to put forward the persecution and the review of the wrong done, and not the protection and opportunities to build. Because we understand that no one deserves to change the rules of the game in the middle of a game, and less if those rules of the game leave me out without knowing why, and now they could include me again but no one tells me, nor does it make me understand. We believe that this is partly facilitated by this transaction. We also believe that the sustainability of the system must certainly be underpinned by the application of the law, but by the application without any doubt. We believe that control and that circulars or criteria documents have to be focused and used as tools that they are, but they cannot and should not be the end of the system, or an excuse to expel people from it or to make everything worth it. We will generate justice, we will bet on solidarity, we will also bet that citizens have a network on which to sustain themselves, not one on which to fall and, if they are not careful, they will end up drowning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque popular groups, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. I'm going to be rather short, because we'll help the agreement we finally agreed on. It comes from an interpelation introduced by Podemos, and it is a motive introduced by the standards of social service. As a matter of fact, I think that the last text or the text agreed on has nothing to do with it, or what it has, but at last I think it's improved, and that's why we'll give it our help. But the content of the agreed text is quite different at certain points, if we compare it with the quoted text. This motion comes from an inquiry by Podemos regarding the criteria for the processing of the GIR, specifically on the publication on the Lanbide website of the document containing the interpretative criteria and instructions that are followed in Lanbide in the processing and application of the regulations regulating income guarantee income and the supplementary housing benefit. As already noted when such an inquiry was concluded, these criteria and instructions have recently been published on the website, and, after understanding Elkarrekin's group We may have some shortcomings, raises this motion. I do have to say that some issues are somewhat redundant; that it is good that they are repeated, and I want to say that, for the sake of legal certainty, it is good to remember some issues, but it would only be necessary for the documents published on the pages to suffer from such legal uncertainty, because, if not, we would be wrong. I would also like to remind you, Mrs Guanche, that in any case here there is a principle of regulatory hierarchy that governs. We have an existing law, the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion; we have regulations for the development of this law, a series of decrees, and, therefore, what rules govern, apart from the criteria for interpreting how the regulations of the GIR and the supplementary housing provision are applied, that is, the economic benefits provided for in the current legislation. In this regard, we share the view that the criteria in the application of the legislation, in the processing of these benefits, must be clear, in the interests of an exercise of absolute transparency, and it is essential that citizens know these criteria. That is why we, in the first paragraph of our amendment, were talking about the concepts contained in the transparency bill, which we did not amend, which was finally not adopted in this House, and we were talking about making the criteria for any document or regulation clear, understandable, accessible to all, and easy to read. And finally they are the qualifications that have been incorporated into the compromise amendment, and therefore we are satisfied. Another point that we find interesting, which is what we took up in our first point, was that every time there is a change in the rules in force, this document is adapted to the changes that can be made. And in a second paragraph, which also in the end, in some ways, we have given up on being reflected in the text, because it has to do in a collateral way, but I have to say that we are also looking forward to the modification that can be made in relation to the rules governing the protection system in Euskadi. We have already presented an initiative, in connection with that initiative an agreement was reached; in the question itself, in the Council's reply, it was said that on 15 May this report would be brought in relation to the amendments to the rules of the Income Guarantee Act, and we will therefore be waiting for the direction in which these amendments are going. And everyone knows – I believe that the position of the People's Party is well known – what is the defense we make of the line in which these changes have to go, but not out of whim, but because we understand that there are deficits, that we have to make the system sustainable, that we have to ensure that the aid reaches the people who really need it, and that, above all, we have to correct the deficits and deficiencies that Lanbide presents as a Basque employment service, in order to put it definitively at the service of employability. But, as I understand that the object of the initiative was a very concrete object... Yes, it is true that you, Mrs Guanche, did not achieve – and forgive me for the expression – properly in the goal that was finally achieved in the compromise agreement, but I understand that in the end it is a good thing that we remember, but I also think that in some way it can be redundant, and therefore we will not oppose it. Transparency yes, legal certainty yes, and above all also, Mrs Guanche, remember the principle of regulatory hierarchy. All this is very well, but here is a law which is the first to be complied with, which contains rights, provided that the requirements are met, and which also provides for obligations for those who meet the requirements and receive social assistance. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u67	Good morning, or good noon already. Well, I think the subject we are talking about today was very clear, and he explained in his yearly report of the law of Artiac. Since the profession took over the management of the revenues to ensure the revenues, the principal director at times accepts the document of criteria. This document is an internal circular, a kind of guide to the rental management offices, which, until now, has not been public until the first few weeks of April, because the public has refused to make public professions, although socialists, benefiters, and interrogators have asked him to publish these criteria. It must be observed that the profession of the nation had just begun an occupation by reason of the complaints about the document of the criteria we are talking about today, and that this document was the object of a complaint, and, on the other hand, asked several questions, and, seeing the answers given to these information, it was confirmed by the social and beneficent persons, that this circular importance was to live. So most of the answers given to the interrogation were seen, instead of complimenting this Norwegian hierarchy of Mrs. Laura Garrido's, that they responded to this internal regulation. The interrogator explained that this document did not contain revenues in order to ensure that it was the only process of interpretation which could be formed in connection with the regime which regulates the revenues, but that it could be completed in a summary of the regulation, and that it is now said that the laborers of the profession are the main and often the only instrument used for the management of income revenues. Thus the intermediary expressed its uneasiness about the want of transparency and the difficulties which the document does not extend. Because the profession is a fundamental document in the decisions about the income. So what we're talking about today is important. This is in a short while the subject we have in our hands to-day. Not long ago, we had a discussion of communications about the Law of Social Services in this Parliament, and that at that time we had access to information, and that this member has received this right, I think, to make it clear. We even talked about transparency. We have also heard the Government talk of it over and over again, but this want of transparency has been the reason of most of the complaints which the Arlias has collected about this subject, in order to ensure the income of money. We recalled, as we said, that the importance of information is placed in the weight of the right to receive information, and of transparency, which enables us to realize other rights. And to know which way our rights ought to be executed, we need information in order to maintain that way, and so it is with the right to secure our incomes. When the office of giving sufficient information from the public stock is not performed, it is not only a violation of the right of information, but a hindrance to the progress of other rights. This right of information allows us all to know and use our rights, but especially those who live in the greatest degree of limitation and vulnerability. The want of information, the ignorance of the means to obtain rights, the absence of the rules of gambling, augments the degree of vulnerability with the revenues which are profitable to the revenues. And I think we can all agree on that. Garrido has a regulation in order to ensure the revenues, a hierarchical principle, which proceeds from the growth of the law, but, as has been shown, this principle is not always filled, and this regulation has hitherto been a small letter of different letters, and this little letter has hitherto been concealed. The income regulates the laws of the revenue to receive them, and to cut them off. Besides this law, which is public, there are those internal considerations which are applied to the everyday, which have not hitherto been public, and which are essentially and in practice the means of deciding who to give it to, and who to take it from. Although the law may be clear, the interpretations make difficulties. This interpretation remains to the professionals of the profession, and those which result from it are not tender. I think Mrs. Guanche has clearly explained the number of files in the course of these criteria and the consequences of it. It must also be said that these criteria are of no importance. Some of them, we can say, are really conspicuous, because they're in the fire. What's this supposed to mean in practice? That many of these rules in the day, many of those which are received in these internal judgments, seem to be an incomprehensible, without being conscious of it, and without being conscious of it, and that they immediately receive the consequences. I think that the examples have been clearly explained by Mrs. Guanche, I will not repeat them here, but there are some curious ones. The burden of these views is, as is the case with certain other things, of a kind of morality, and the prejudices of those who are benefited are very present in the whole document, in our opinion. It may be said that these criteria, at least in a certain degree, collide with the reality of the benefit. To put a case with the reality of women who suffer from machista violence. Besides, I dare say they often have a changeable perspective, and that the element of control is, often too much, present to us. It may be thought to be a very clear regulation, but that these considerations exclude men from their system, and lead them to the system not. And I doubt whether this has not been the reason to deny that these criteria have been published for so long. Why else? But fortunately, things have changed, and at the beginning of April, we must say, with some forms which we did not like, and which have been made public in the last few minutes before night and interpelation. It seems to us to be happiness, and to us that it is happiness, not in form. We think we need other activities, but now we know what the rules of gambling are. But at least now we have the rules of gambling and of men, as it were, have this guarantee. And I believe, in this sense, that in order to break up these ancient inertias, or these imperfections which have lately been about these matters, this action we are now engaged in, contributes to our progress. It has been a deal of hard work, really, but I believe that the position of our party has been made clear, both in correction and in the rest of our negotiations. In order to ensure transparency and incomes, we've put a certain guarantee of the rent's benefits and put focus on it. It seems to us that we ought to work in the direction of equality in the reach of right, and in this sense it seems to us that this agreement which we have obtained leads us to it. But even more so, it seems to us that this public existence allows us, in some measure, to open a discussion with the motives, with the benefiters, and other social agents. And now that the reform of the law is pendicient, and will soon come, we think it proper for those who have it, but also for our protection. So we'll sign it and hold it against it, and I think the Poptular Party ought to have some courage too, and, if it's a whale, it'd be a little grateful to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today at this point in this plenary we are discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by the Elkarrekin Group We can at the plenary session on 7 April on the commitment of the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide to publish the criteria for the processing of income guarantee income. To begin with, I would like to point out that this compromise is a good thing that has already been fulfilled before today's debate on this motion. My parliamentary group was the most concerned in this area in the previous parliamentary term. There had been a commitment by the Basque Government since the end of the previous legislature to update the criteria for the treatment of income security income. The Basque Government, on 3 May, in a reply to my parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, concerning the processing of income guarantee income..., the councillor, Mr Toña, pointed out that it was carrying out a review of Lanbide's criteria for GIR, which existed since December 2014, and that such a review would be carried out in the following months and would be published in the first half of 2016 on Lanbide's website, so that they would be known to all citizens. That publication, however, was delayed, but it has been carried out and carried out on 6 April 2017, so this initiative, once we have come to this motion, is already fulfilled. However, we believed that this moment could be used to go a little further and do something else. Its publication, the publication of these criteria, we believe is positive for the citizens of the Basque Country. It has been published on its website updating Lanbide's income guarantee income criteria, and this is what the Basque Government has been demanding since the previous legislature. In this way, the criteria which will then be applied in the various offices in Lanbide when processing the GIR files are unified. In addition, the citizen can see and know the criteria to be applied when processing his or her GIR files. Prior to this question, which I referred to at the plenary session on 7 February 2014, I asked the Government about Ararteko's recommendations to the Basque Employment Service on the lack of motivation in Lanbide's resolutions in refusing income guarantee income to applicants, based on a January 2014 recommendation by Ararteko, which called on the Basque Employment Service to state clearly why it rejected each claim. That is why Ararteko sent a series of recommendations to the Basque Employment Service to renew its actions in this area, in order to avoid defencelessness of citizens, who need to know the reasons for making such negative decisions if they want to appeal against them. There is a legal obligation of the administrative procedure to give reasons for the limiting decisions of the law, which must include the facts that cause that decision, the rules applicable to the particular case, and the grounds of law. And this obligation is reflected not only in the rules of administrative procedure, but also in the Spanish Constitution itself in its articles 24 and 103. I also asked for Ararteko's appearance to explain his resolution to the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing, and as a result there was a commitment from the Basque Government to improve the motivations of the resolutions in the GIR denial files, and it was made. That is why my group believes that further improvement in the motivations is very important for the citizen to be able to appeal to the denial, but it is also important to have criteria that unify the Lanbide resolutions, so that they are known to all concerned. What must be done, however, is legal certainty. In the initiative presented initially by the group Elkarrekin Podemos Mrs Guanche wanted criteria to homogenize resolutions recently revised by Lanbide to become almost law, and she forgets that unifying criteria, be they interpretative or application, cannot be confused with the regulation that regulates the matter. These criteria can vary more easily than a rule, it is normal in administrative procedures, it has always been so, and it will continue to be so always. But also, trying, I suppose, to improve the situation, what I was proposing would have the opposite effect. Why do I say that? Because I wanted to review all the procedures carried out from December 2014 to April 6, 2017, when the new criteria are published on the website. What would that generate? Well, obviously, chaos and collapse. By changing the criteria, it is not appropriate to review all the resolutions that have been implemented in the last three years. Because that is not done even when a new law is redrafted and passed. A new law can collect things that had nothing to do with the previous law, and that does not mean that everything that has been done under the previous law has to be annulled. Nor do judges, when they have made their judgments, when a new law comes out, review all sentences they have made for the application of a previous law. That is what is called legal certainty in our system, which must be maintained. And you, however, for a mere change in the unifying criteria of GIR, what you wanted was a suspension, a review of absolutely everything that has been done in the last ten years. That is why we believe that the signed compromise amendment is good, because it contains coherent things, logical things, and things that improve. Once it has already been published on the web, which has already met the goal of this inquiry, it goes a little further. It introduces that the easy-to-read criteria should be applied to the document within three months in order to ensure that its interpretation is uniform and does not give rise to different interpretations. Secondly, it is also stipulated that the existing legislation is properly implemented with deadlines and with the motivation of administrative acts, all in a clear and sufficient way, in order to implement and improve legal certainty. Thirdly, to publish all the changes that this document might contain in the future, so that they continue to be known to all citizens and to ensure the application of the interpretation criteria contained in that document from the time of publication, which, well, that is obvious. I believe that even if point 4 had not been taken up, then once you publish the criteria... Logically, the publics to apply them and be known to everyone, but, well, it's there. I believe that the publication of the criteria to be applied by Lanbide is already done. The inclusion of easy-to-read criteria for better understanding, the resolution of dossiers in time, and the clear motivation for them is good, much improved by this compromise amendment, it goes further, and I think it has been used to include something else. And then in May already the Department of Employment and Social Policy will bring, as it has committed itself, I imagine, the specific diagnostic report on all aspects relating to GIR, which the councillor herself, Mrs Artolazabal, in her intervention on the other day of April 7th already stated that they would be presented here shortly. That is why we have signed this compromise amendment. I think it serves to take steps forward, but sensible steps, steps that guarantee legal certainty and that can benefit citizens, as far as transparency is concerned, who are always positive. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u70	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u71	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Together, Podemos makes a question of the commitment of the profession to publish revenue revenues. I must confess, when I first read the motion, I didn't quite understand it. It is not from whence it is taken, it confounds everything; Judgments, supposed different interpretations, the same rule. Totum revolutum is what is required without any legal exactness. In short, I should like to show you a few things about the hierarchy of rules; You can't act against what the law says, as you know, Mrs. Guanche. Two, if found with elements which the law does not determine, are applicable to the growth of the law, and to the received rules. And we have three, to face the treatment we have to give to a certain hypothesis, we have interpretations, criteria, consultations, &c. But it is essential to have clear the normative hierarchy, being at the top of the pyramid of the law, in a lower scale the regulation – which is nothing more than the development of that one – and in a lower rank than the previous two criteria of interpretation, consultations, etc., which serve to clarify and facilitate the application of both the law and the regulation and which always, in any case, must respect the rules of the higher rank. In addition, there are other possibilities to determine how a multiple organ such as Lanbide acts, for which there are instructions for service, internal circulars..., whose aim is to order the way to work or attend to certain present or future circumstances. It is usual, as Mrs Sánchez also said, at different levels of the Administration, to use the criteria to unify interpretations, and to make the response to the people administered as homogeneous and objective as possible. In this way, the publication of these criteria makes clear the interpretation that will be given to the assumptions contemplated in it, and in the unlikely event that the interpretation deviates from the published may be required its fulfillment. Therefore, objective fulfilled, we understand, of what you intended with your original initiative. Today, in view of the initiative adopted by Parliament, calling on the Basque Government to amend the regulatory rules of the GIR, a commitment which expires in mid-May, what we believe is proper implementation of the existing, with deadlines and with clear and sufficient motivation for administrative acts, all in clear and understandable language, so that the managed can exercise all the rights that assist them. All this has been reflected in the signed compromise amendment. In addition, his interpellation, from which he causes today's motion, required the publication of the criteria on the processing of the GIR, and now, at this time of the motion, that these criteria are already published since April 7, are demanded a lot of things different from the publication of the criteria, which was the object of the interpellation. On the other hand, I don't understand what you mean at the 1st point of the motium when you ask "dotar de naturala de derecho," and I don't understand very well what you wanted there. You want me to have the nature of the rule, but things don't do that. The criteria cannot be made a rule according to the will of a group. A little seriousness and severity are at least absolutely necessary for such demands. As to the second point, as I have said before, the criteria must always correspond with the higher orders, which will remain and remain. For the contrary would suppose the violation of the Law. With regard to the third and fourth points of your initial proposal, Mrs Guanche, it is totally unworkable, as we have spoken in private, neither from a legal point of view nor from a practical and effective prism. The ex officio review that you ask for the only thing that generates is legal uncertainty. Following the normative hierarchy, the adoption of a new standard, with criteria and articles other than the previous legislation in force, does not imply the adequacy of the factual assumptions prior to the new legislation adopted. In fact, the general rule is the non-retroactivity of laws. Therefore, exactly the same is true of the criteria, whose rank is lower than that of the law, and always subject to it. In addition, we believe that it is time to move forward, improve the functioning of Lanbide and strengthen the system with the request made to the Government. This retroactivity called for could resurrect Lanbide's functioning, and, more importantly, would create legal insecurity for aid recipients and preceptors. For all that we had mentioned, we had no intention of protecting the fundamental initiative, as I have said, because it has no legal nor legal principle. In relation to the basic correction of the gathering, we were perfectly satisfied with the 1st, 2, and 4 points. We can't agree with the third point, because it's the Norwegian hierarchy that was described around Mrs. Guanche's motion. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party, in our view, the second point is not specifically confined to the matter before us. It speaks more about the position of the People's Party in general, about the need to amend the regulatory law of the GIR, about the alleged inefficiency of Lanbide, which is always mentioned, despite the fact that the Basque Employment Service is set as an example in both state and European forums. Eta amaitzeko, erdibideko bata helpdu gara, aho bata onartua izango dena, retroaktibitaren gaia alde bata uzzita, helburu bera geneukalako adotu ditugun taldeok. What is required is the publication of Lanbide's criteria, which have already been published since the beginning of April. We call for compliance with what the Basque Government is already doing, because we are convinced that this publication will lead to improved service, being more homogeneous, and because it also provides legal certainty for citizens, who can use a public document to base their possible disagreements or remedies. "Se is it, Gobierno Vasco un placeo de tres Messes para que el sdocumento de criteriums se adopte a estándares de lectur facil." If these criteria are changed, we ask that they be published at the third point of the half-way fun. In the second place, the Social Party and ourselves, the Eucalists, are descended from the second point of their fundamental correction. Always pushing and improving the legal security: It's time for you to complete the deadlines and ask you for more intelligence about administrative motives. The fourth round is filling up. The criteria are applied from what has been published, I repeat, for they are useful to society. And that's the way it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answer shift, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u73	Well, back. You can see that this morning running is the theme, because it's all being a bit accelerated. Mrs Garrido, the text has improved. That is why we have all reached an agreement and that is why we have signed it, and that is why we agree. I want to share, both with you and with the rest of the comrades who have mentioned my change of position, what were the original objectives of the motion we presented. After the criteria had already been published, we sought compliance with the law on information to citizens. We also intended to put the matter of easy reading, but, well, for a matter of time and I don't know what, we have put it in a separate proposal that we will withdraw, since it is approved with it. And what we were also trying to do was, as I said on 7 April in this House, that all those people who have had to suffer a lot of suspensions for criteria that have now disappeared will be repaired. Maybe we haven't been the most correct or the most... I don't know what expression they used, in relation to legal justification. I am not a lawyer, I do not intend to be; however, I will be more careful from now on. And I'm not going to fool any of them: I'm looking forward to more, but I'm able to put ahead what's going to benefit citizens in the face of what I want or what I can repeat (I say, or our Elkarrekin Podemos group). I believe, and I bring back here again, that this is a step forward and that it is an important step. I know that some of you have referred to the redundancy of naming legal certainty, or naming some of the issues that we have maintained in the compromise amendment. We believe that this redundancy is necessary, because we know where we come from and we know what has not been done. We know that since December 2014, the right of citizens, their right to information and their legal certainty are being violated. We know that we do not want this to continue to be repeated, and therefore we insist even at the risk of being redundant. We also believe – we believe and the Ararteko clearly says – that these criteria have often been used almost as the only element of interpretation or consultation, beyond the norm itself. I know RGI well, I know regulation well, because I have been advising people who are perceiving it for years. I also know well, and first hand, the defencelessness of those who see a suspension without motivation and do not know why, of those who apply an obligation they do not know because it is nowhere. I am well aware of the tragedy that a family that has no more income than the RGI will receive 8,000 or 10,000 euros of undue charges for having left the CAE, without knowing that this was prohibited. And that's why, I insist, that's why I talk from the guts, and that's why maybe I'm not all the right thing to be. But I'm not going to lower my head, and I don't feel like I've done anything wrong bringing this proposal here, because I know I don't like the criteria, and I don't think it's something that any of you are surprised at. I don't like them because they judge and because they actually give attitudes and questions without listening to the citizens, without listening to the collectives, without listening to the social entities that we have been saying for years that these criteria don't work, they're not right, but they must also be public and they must also provide security to the citizens. But I also don't like them because they always sweep home, and this new version is one more example of it. Bars for home; they seem to put forward the ability to save budget on the ability to enforce the law. And that seems troubling to me. I do not dare to affirm it or to say that this is so, because I still have to study it (it is thirty-seven pages with much content, with many turns to give), but of course we are going to do it, have no doubt about it. I insist that there have been many suspensions for breach of obligations. I insist that that is the only reason why we should bring this motion here. I apologize if there has been something that we have not done with the correctness that should be done, and we will try to improve in the future, as I hope this Government will do, not creating instruments that invent the rules and do not comply with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mrs Garrido has to take the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u75	Well, indeed, thank you, Madam President. I do believe, Mrs Guanche, that the agreement has made it possible to improve clearly your original initiative, you have to recognise it, because of course the agreement reached has nothing to do with any of the pretensions that you had embodied in your original text. Moreover, if he had maintained the original text as he had, and his claims, which was his position until this morning, it would not have been possible to reach an agreement. I, in any case, am finally grateful for the efforts to understand what was the lowest common denominator in relation to this initiative, as others have done, and, of course, to the proposing group that has made possible an agreement. Indeed, I understand that some things are redundant too. I want to say that it is very good to repeat them, but it is up to the Administration to comply with a number of principles when publishing its writings, its documents, and also when they are obviously public. I believe that this agreement has also made it possible to remedy even some of the shortcomings that you had in your original text. It is clear, and it is something that we used to pick up in our text, that clear, understandable, understandable, easy-to-read criteria are applied... They are also terms that appear in the transparency bill itself, which did not materialize in the past legislature, and are therefore the terms used by the Government itself. That the current legislation is correctly applied, it was only missing! I mean we put it in the text, that's fine. Legal certainty too, of course. And that the amendments are published, so, yes, that's what we're all about. We remind the Government once again to keep it in mind with this motion and this agreement adopted today. And, with regard to the principle of normative hierarchy, it has been widely quoted today in this House by all the speakers, of which I am glad, especially since I also want to recall that in the principle of normative hierarchy, in the summit, there is the Constitution, and therefore it is very good to remember that the supreme norm of all norms is our Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u76	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u77	Thank you again, Mrs. President. In fact, all groups have explained to us where the principle of the Norwegian hierarchy is going, and you have here explained the positions of the subject which we have been discussing, but I am bound to say that we should have been mistaken in the fact that both we and Mrs. Guanche and I were in our third point and its first point; And it's not what we said, it's what the Arlias said. The intermediary clearly explains that what has hitherto been an internal guide has become a rule, and that is one of the only instruments used by the workers of the profession in the management of the RGI, and in many cases only. Yes, the amendment that has been negotiated certainly has many redundancies, but in this case, as in others, sometimes between what is collected and what is reality there is a distance. A distance that I understand that all the people present here – some do not know if with the same motivation – we want it to be solved, and that is why it has been proposed that there be a reform of the Income Guarantee Act that is addressed from the beginning of consensus, a consensus that must also lead Mrs Artolazabal who is present here. So, what do you mean, "obvious"? Yeah, obvious, I'm sure. But some obviations that are not so obvious and that in the day to day generate quite a few discrepancies. Discrepancies that also sometimes involve managing Lanbide professionals who are not prepared on many occasions to address them, and that on other occasions – on many occasions – translate into suspensions and living conditions that are certainly not desirable for people who suffer from such interpretations. So, I can understand that, in fact, we have certainly not been right when looking for the legal form or how that is collected, or how it is collected in a legal hierarchy (I am clear), but what we do know very closely is what the reality is. And in that reality there is a distance between what is said to be done and what is done. Porque la señora Argarei is far too public, and I have said that I am very glad to be involved in it, that these criteria are public and applied at a public time, but they are public from aperil, which were not public before. They were small letters, and they were small secret letters. And with these motives Mrs. Sánchez spoke of, there were often reasons for that little secret letter in which the denials appeared. Thus the principle of hierarchy was not followed; I shall say, then, that I received this publication with joy, because I think it a guarantee for us all: In administration, for this principle of transparency, and for the users, and also for those who seek to be constructive on that protection system, those maxims which are so controversial may be questioned at the moment. And it's also a serious reform, and it's a very nice opportunity to be able to examine them too, and see how much they charge us, because we're telling you what kind of a story we're dealing with. Bukatzeko, esan nahi nuke Imanol Zuberok –eta uste dut gai horretan nahiko errekonozitua den pertsona bat da Imanol Zubero–, horrek esan zuela: "Constantly it works as if the dysfunctions of the RGI, the errors of the RGI, were in the perceptors of the RGI, when there are errors that logically correspond to the people, but other errors correspond to the problems of management of Lanbide itself and how it has been articulated". With which, welcome is this agreement even if it has redundancies, because it will allow us to move forward. It also allows us to move forward on a precedent of an important moment. And in that regard, I congratulate myself on the agreement reached. I believe that progress is being made in the area of rights, without complacency, because the starting point is a lack of transparency and occultism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs Sánchez, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u79	From the seat. It is clear that we all agree that the criteria, from the point of view of administrative procedure, can never become a norm. What has been called for by this Parliament since the previous parliamentary term has been fulfilled. New criteria have been published recently, since April this year. And within the transactional amendment is reflected the commitment that... Well, obviously we are facing a possible reform of income guarantee income, things can vary, and if in the future the criteria for interpretation or application of anything that could be modified could also vary, it is also stated that the criteria that could be modified in the future will continue to be published on the website. And then it also delves into the area of easy reading and improving the motivations of resolutions, in order to provide citizens with any complaints they have to make to the Basque Employment Service. I think that is positive, and the compromise amendment that we have signed, after the efforts of the various groups to reach a consensus, to move forward, to collect things that could further improve all these issues, is positive, and so it has been signed by the Basque Nationalist group, by my group (the Basque Socialists), by the EH Bildu group, and by the proposing group of the initiative, Elkarrekin Podemos. And you will vote in favour, as your representative, Mrs Garrido, the People's Group, has said. I think that's what's good for citizens. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u80	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u81	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. I'll start as Mrs Sánchez finished. It's important, it's very important, isn't it? Public criteria were required to publish, published since April 6th. A clear judgment is required for the understanding, and for what purpose? After all, it is for the good and advantage of society to publish these opinions, which will give them a legal security. I also take note of what Mrs Kortajarena said that this allows us to move forward. And it is true that it allows us to move forward, and we welcome the agreement reached, that agreement reached unanimously, that what comes to ask is that, since the publication of the criteria has been fulfilled, that it is true that it had not been done before, but already since April it is done... And in politics times are very important, and it is true that this is already being done since April. It seems to us good that the forecast should be taken, in case they are amended, if they are published. And they obviously have to be applied since they are published, which we share and so is being done by all offices in Lanbide. And that is because what it does is to benefit the system itself and ultimately to benefit the citizens, the applicants for these aids, who will see and will be able to base their refusals or supposed suspensions on those criteria that are published. In the event that they were not applied, they have published criteria to base their resources, requests for review, etc. What I don't agree with and I don't think it's true is... You, Mrs Guanche, said that the Government uses the criteria as an instrument, and that they stop inventing the rules and do not comply with them. I believe that these allegations are serious, and I believe that in the event that the rules are not being complied with, there are procedures in this regard. But I think that some accusations of that hair, of that character, making them here seems very serious to me. And you yourself, Mrs. Kotha's, you said the criteria were the only instrument when the law was abandoned. I don't think the law has been abandoned at all. And if it were so, I repeat to Mrs. Guanche what I said: If the law doesn't work, they have instruments to accuse, but not here on the legislature. I don't think this is the place for accusations or accusations like this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EHG, and the middle-line correction that has been signed by the Euzbertarians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u83	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Provide the law of parliamentary groups, concerning sexual abuses against children. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. Househouse and she has the word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u84	Good noon, everyone. Thank you. During the last few weeks of January we heard from some of the sexual abuses which had been given to the Elic district of Gipulia, and the reactions which had preceded it (or the lack of reactions) led us to ask a question and to make another legal proposal from the Basque Country. At that moment the question sought an expression of the President's, asking for a position on the subject, and seeing that we had received it, we immediately declared that we would take away the first of the other points of our own law, and agree with each other. These abuses against the children who had been given in the parish permitted or brought to the centre of the situation by various other accusations and accusations which are in the shade. From all these other attacks which are under the shadow, and which are the majority, the majority are generally given in the character of a family; in 90% of the case by an adult male in the family. He who hurts, when he is a man of trust to children, encourages the most cruel violence. In this way, therefore, we can only accept our initial proposition with joy, and by combining the contributions of other groups in order to improve it. We've been able to get a half-thank you for it, very easily, and I'd like to thank you all for it. This agreement, which we have before our eyes, first puts the cares of government in the centre, which demands the government for trasbertal and integrated policies. We're talking about a problem of public health and social justice, a conflict with a lot of spikes, a commercial conflict, and such politics demands problems. We have also brought information, light, and biovisilization to the centre, as the associations who work on the subject have shown us that the most serious problem is that of not being seen. I shall mention the church, which I suppose will be mentioned by many who shall speak after me, because they were with us by building them, and gave us a great deal of information and ideas. In these cases, this association made a necessary study in the course of the year before, and from this report, "We have been able to extract from the memoirs of sex with children, by showing violence." Other associations and research have also worked, but, well, we've got a pretty interesting job here, and they've offered us everything in detail. On the other hand, building Bañuelus, the member of the corporation said to us, "There is a social compact here, and this is the case, that these attacks enable this patient to happen." It's hard words and even in time it came out of the committee, but it's just a reflection of reality. We have no official data, but the different research says that about 20% of children have suffered or suffered these attacks at the moment. 20% of the children. It's horrible what's going on! Besides the sexual abuses, physical attacks, physical carelessness, emotional carelessness, psychological attacks, or some of the situations under which children are exposed to attack. Societys like construction have taken a step. Today is another one. And from now on we expect more steps and bigger steps to come. To this end we know how to accept and confess the nature of these children's subject, to give their words, their voices, and their creativity. The fact is that between 20% of those children we've spoken of only %2 is detected in real time. I mean, at the moment when the attack is going on, there's only two percent of the cases ahead of us. This is why we speak of early agents in this middle term, of the necessity of their formation and of space for their interaction. Justice, education, administration, social services, associations... We all have to work together to get that 2% up there and detect the situation of the child being attacked as quickly as possible. Then it is appreciated that only %1 within that %2 is accused of being accused or accused of being tried. Within that 20% we have 2% of them in front of our eyes, and the only one in comparison of that two is a judicial charge. What's the matter? That there's a double victims that often meet the accused. In the case of those who accuse or accuse the adulterate, we know that time has passed in the case of many, and time has passed, when we know, to make conscious of such an attack. To this we must face the attack, as well as to respect and guarantee the supreme interest of children who are suffering in real time. In the case of these children, when they charge against them, it is a pity that many of them have suffered events contrary to this state in the courts of justice; To question the child's story, a poor psychological resistance or not, and the same thing as the syndrome de alienacion. All very serious. The news of yesterday is that the European Committee will proceed to inquire about them, and begin the investigation about these attacks which may or may be given within the US of Spain. And I think we'll have to follow his conclusions carefully. In our jurisdictions, therefore, we endeavour to reflect on the precepts, the protocols of justice, and demand the establishment of protocols. So we have touched several important aspects: visibleness, premature attention and protocol and justice. We stated in his own time that the attacks of children, who are being abused, must pass from private to public, and from public to political. Now we must take him from politics to practical. We told them they weren't alone, so let's prove it to the facts. Thank you for the associations that have led the way. What you have to talk about, witnesses, voices, all those societies you've brought us, apart from the investigators. But, above all, we want to thank all those children or adults who have dared to step over all this invisibleness, who have taught us the way. We must continue on the basis of their demands, with all dueness and care, and for them I congratulate ourselves on taking a step forward today with the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that are running the line, together Podemos, Ms. Arana, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u86	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, at table, members of the legislature. Through this initiative, we are once again addressing in this Parliament a sensitive and extremely serious issue for our society, such as violence against children and adolescents, and in particular sexual violence. From Elkarrekin We understand that this is an initiative that aims to promote that this serious violation of rights is addressed from an approach that we generally share, an approach that does not conform to reacting from alarm, perplexity or unbelief, which is not limited to responding on an ad hoc basis to irreversible events that are presented as isolated episodes. We understand, and understand, that this initiative aims to go further, proposing some measures for its prevention, for early warning, awareness raising and improvement of care and reparation actions. An approach that promotes a responsible and committed position with a phenomenon that is present in all societies and cultures; in ours as well. That is why we decided to table an amendment to add to the initiative presented by EH Bildu, which complements and complements this approach. We want a comprehensive policy to be promoted from this Parliament both in the measures to be taken and in the vision of the problem. Child sexual abuse is one of the many forms of violence against children and adolescents. Sexual abuse, as well as sexual exploitation, child pornography, trafficking for sexual exploitation, or sex tourism, are forms of violence that undermines their psychic and emotional integrity, their sexual freedom, the well-being and development of children and adolescents. The abusers – and that must be very, very clear – as Mrs Etxebarrieta said, they are not sick, they are not isolated elements with unique pathologies. They are citizens, coworkers, neighbors, parents, grandparents, uncles, the parish priest of our neighborhood, the basketball coach, the lord we meet every morning in the bakery, on the bus or on the subway; people of absolute confidence, both for families and for society as a whole. They are the expression of a patriarchal and central adult society, which promotes values that justify and naturalize abuse of power, which promote values that justify and naturalize the bodies of childhood and adolescence and that of women. Fortunately, in recent decades, and largely thanks to the historic struggle of women and feminists, there has been a progressive visibility of domestic violence. They took the blindfold out of our eyes. The family, which today is still being presented as a model, this family photo composed exclusively of a heterosexual couple, with sons and daughters, which continues to be used machaconically in advertising, in the press, in iconography or in public administration documentation... If you don't believe that photograph I'm reproducing, you can go to a search engine and put the word "family," and this photograph will come out for you. And, if not, you can also see the notebook of the diagnostic test that has been carried out since Education by the Basque Government and that the boys and girls took home to fill out. As I said, we have discovered that these spaces are not always the place of protection and care that children need for their full development. The data and statistics produced at the global level, on the contrary, show that girls and boys are very vulnerable to violence by adults in their closest and most trusted environment. More for them than for strangers or peers. The World Health Organization published in September 2016 that from various international studies it can be said that a quarter of all adults have suffered (we have suffered) physical abuse in childhood. One in five women and one in thirteen men have reported having suffered sexual abuse. Domestic violence ceases to be enclosed between the four walls of a private and inviolable territory in which the abuser acts with impunity. We are discovering a reality that in many cases was hidden when it did not favor its reproduction, by complicit silence, by covering your eyes, by looking elsewhere, by not wanting to know about the adult world. And I speak in masculine not because I represent two genders, men and women, but because it is usually a man who exercises sexual abuse. It's time to get your head out of the wing. During the appearance in the Human Rights and Equality Commission of Eraikiz Kolektiboa, for the presentation of the report "Sexual abuse in childhood, making visible violence" that Mrs Etxebarrieta commented, they said that this is the most hidden violence in our societies. We do not know the real impact of abuse, let alone sexual violence against children. We don't have up-to-date, systematic data. Alarming figures are estimated. The existence of between 15 and 20 % prevalence can be stated without error. One in five women in Europe would have been sexually abused in childhood. Only 2% of known abuse situations go beyond what is happening, and the rest are known when the victims are already adults. Considering that still today it is a taboo subject, surrounded by hermetism, stigmatizing for the victim and the family, these data could be only the tip of the iceberg of this serious social problem. It is time for this Parliament and the Government to give it the right priority, to assume that this also happens here, in the Basque Country, in our society, and to deal with it responsibly and with all the necessary measures. It is a violation of human rights. It must be a central part of the concerns and policies that are being carried out to move forward, to make a quantitative and qualitative leap in policies for prevention, early detection, protection, care and reparation. In this sense, from Elkarrekin We can work on the impulse of different initiatives. We do not want actions or measures drawn up since the social alarm. We have submitted interpellations, non-legislative proposals, requests for attendance, through which we intend to have as many elements as possible for a better understanding of this invisible phenomenon. On 24 March, following the appearance at the request of our parliamentary group in the Commission on Human Rights, we presented a non-legislative proposal which we hope will find the unanimous agreement of this House. The lack of data, the lack of up-to-date and systematic information, was one of the most reiterated concerns and highlighted by all those specialized in the subject. All those involved in the process of preparing the report agreed that the visibility of child sexual abuse is a necessity, and that its concealment brings more problems than solutions. In Euskadi, for example, the last prevalence study carried out on the subject dates back to 1995. Let me say it, but I think it's a real shame. In this study, 9.7 per cent of men and 14 per cent of women interviewed claim to have suffered sexual abuse. Twenty-two years have passed, obviously we lack data. We have no data, and we cannot combat what we do not know, it makes it difficult to promote measures appropriate to reality to eradicate it. That is why we decided to promote from Parliament the development of a study on the prevalence of sexual violence against children and adolescents in the fields of home and family, education system, workplace, community, protection and adolescent criminal responsibility systems, which includes an updated and necessary diagnosis for the development of a comprehensive strategy. A study that has the active participation of experts, civil society and professionals with a recognized history in this field. In this non-law proposal, to the seven points raised in the first initiative by the EH Bildu group, Elkarrekin We can provide proposals that have to do with ensuring the exercise of the right to access to justice, with taking into account the needs of children and adolescents in all policies, with mainstreaming the perspective of childhood and adolescence, with promoting measures from all agencies, within their competence, to specifically address violence; for prevention, early warning, care, protection and reparation; and also to systematically have more and better data on the reality of childhood and adolescence. We are pleased that this House as a whole agrees with this agreement and with the need to take action, and that we have reached a unanimous agreement so that these facts that violate the rights of children and adolescents do not repeat themselves. This is just the beginning. There are so many things to do, too many. I encourage the Government to continue to work in this direction, and to be swift and forceful in the implementation of all these initiatives that are to be adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u87	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u88	Eguerdi on guztioi. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. This is probably one of the issues on which we can all agree that it would be necessary to have no bowels – said in a probably vulgar but descriptive and graphic way – in order not to feel brutally shocked. This is one of those dramatic phenomena that anyone who has two fingers on his face or who faces life with a minimum of dignity has to provoke an emotional, ethical and moral convulsion of any order. And this is something that fortunately unites us to the whole House. I have to thank you and congratulate Mrs Etxebarrieta for having put forward this proposal for a law, and also in the terms in which the agreement has resulted. Because it is true that probably some political manifestations were not the most successful, but eliminate the possibility of unfairly judging the lehendakari not because it is the lehendakari, but anyone..., projecting a shadow of suspicion on its strength did not seem to us to be the most successful. And I believe that the non-law proposal in which we have reached an agreement is more certain, eliminates any kind of partyism, and unites us all in the search – regardless of the ideological thesis we have, which we could discuss a lot – unites us all in the fundamentals, in trying to find formulas, in trying to equip ourselves with the necessary and appropriate tools to deal with a phenomenon that is extraordinarily complex to solve. Because, if I may, in a way of reflection, it is true that the invisibility of this phenomenon is one of the greatest problems it has, because in the end the invisibility has other derivatives, and it is that the problem is not known, with which no one is aware, and with which it is difficult to denounce. But the invisibility in the end affects..., or we want it to be visible when the person who has been abused, sexually in this particular case, acquires sufficient maturity and courage..., emerges from the logical and reasonable fears in the face of a phenomenon of these circumstances, and is able to make it visible and denounce it. But it's probably already adulthood. The extraordinary problem, or the most dramatic of this phenomenon, is that the sufferer has no capacity for reaction and response, because they are minors, they are children, they are people who do not have the intellectual tools or those of any order to be able to cope with a phenomenon that deeply upsets him, and probably do so throughout his life, and probably denounce his father, or his uncle..., or his mother, but it is indeed the men who statistically commit these kinds of atrocities most. And the question that needs to be asked is how we're capable... Because we are going to implement measures and we are going to try, and surely very rightly, to implement measures to gain visibility, to allow this phenomenon to become more known and therefore there is a more forceful reaction, but the great bitterness is to be unable to prevent it. Because prevention is probably impossible. Because the private sphere, the family sphere, is particular, obviously; because people who seem magnificent then aren't, people who seem to have those bowels to which I referred at first then don't have them, and are able to make the person more vulnerable, more defenseless, as a child..., commit such atrocity upon him. And, sharing the non-law proposal or amendment that we have been able to agree on, and being convinced that it is not merely a protocol signature on the part of any of our groups, and that from now on it would seem very timely for us to become part of the priority of our agenda, I do want to share with you that reflection on which we will have the opportunity to work, sure: how we are capable of, giving importance to visibility, giving importance to the need for this phenomenon to be known and denounced by those who have suffered it, how we are capable, what we do to try, as far as possible, to prevent. Because a case we're able to avoid will be a great victory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I join in congratulating the proposer, as well as all those who have been part of this agreement. Discrepating a bit of what Mr Semper was saying, I believe that, indeed, following the Eraikiz report, which is the one that has reported (Eraikiz and Save the Children, which also had someone else)..., which has reported part of the transactional amendment, I believe that, if we really put it at the centre of politics, we can put some kind of attention to it. I'm not saying the whole resolution, but some kind of attention. But I will start with the principle that you have not mentioned, the one that gave rise to this non-law proposition. A forty-two-year-old man said in February 2017: "My childhood, my illusion and my innocence were stolen from me." He, his twin brother and other interns at a seminar in La Bañeza slept with terror awaiting the night visit of his teacher, who chose at his discretion to which bed to approach to quench his sexual depravity. They were fourteen, it was 88-89. They commented on it at the seminar, denounced it, but they suffered only punishment, and silence and silence. Thirty years later he dared to write to the Vatican, he told the press, and the abuser (like the former Gipuzcoan) was sentenced, in May 2017, thirty years later, to remove him from the parish for a year, also condemning him to care work for elderly priests and other charitable tasks. The exvict was sentenced to various scapegoats, as well as administrative and disciplinary sanctions, to be imprisoned in a monastery, and he was prohibited from exercising his ministry. In this case, in the other case, in all cases, in the thousands of cases of sexual abuse of minors within the Roman Church, the Catholic Church, that a priest abuses a child is a major scandal; but that after the connivance of the superiors, the connoisseurs, and the abuser can get out of the rosites with various scapegoats, administrative measures, imprisonment in a monastery, reflection and meditation, extends the magnitude and responsibilities of these scandals to the upper layers of the Catholic Church. That is why I would say loud and clear that these matters are not, first of all, matters, but sexual abuse of children, which are also a crime in all child abuse. But it is not only a matter, but it is not a private matter or a matter of the Catholic Church, but it is a public matter, which is our responsibility and responsibility, which calls upon all public authorities. Child sexual abuse – said my companions and Borja when they intervened earlier – is one of the most serious forms of child abuse. It is of extraordinary gravity, has consequences in their lives, in their environment, and in each and every context in which the child victim develops. Hence, the areas for intervention – all have said so – are extended from the family or its social environment to the educational, health, police, legislative and us, politics, and public policy. That is what we have agreed here, all of us, advised by those who have been pleased to produce a report on this subject on the other hand, so hidden and so silenced. Because it is still – they have said – invisible, silent, complex, hidden, difficult to treat, where little information and incidence rates are much higher (you have spoken of numbers) than is believed. It is violence that is in the private sphere. In that sense, it is not public, and then it does not usually leave physical evidence, which complicates external detection. It is a form of violence that has the highest degree of perversity, because it is silent violence, which goes unnoticed, and that when it is discovered, as we have said, its visibility and complaint finds many reticences in the environment and in the victim himself. And they've also said my classmates why that happens like this. Besides, it's violence that doesn't normally carry aggressiveness, right? The complainant also commented in his narration about the third abuse of Gipuzkoa's ex-vicary, who said: "There was no physical violence, he did not force me, but he took advantage of the fact that he was a child, who was alone, who trusted him and was going to remain silent." And that's also a very close violence. Says Eraikiz's report: "The enemy" – as they come to explain it – "is always close, very close. The more peaceful a society as a whole, we will find that violence by strangers is decreasing and, unfortunately, violence in the vicinity is increasing, which is more difficult to identify and more complicated to try and make visible." In this violence – I will repeat myself – there are no profiles either in the abusers or in the victims or in the abused... It is also not related to mental illness or pathology. And it also has nothing to do with other factors, but it is influenced by those who have mentioned some of my fellow speakers: the inexcusable incidence of child dependence, power relations, patriarchy and the paradox of child sexuality, which has shifted from denial to hypersexualization. Just as there are also factors that have to do with situations of amparo and greater vulnerability, and here we talk about family breakdown, domestic violence, social exclusion and functional diversity. Returning again, with your permission, without wanting to bore them, speaking of the Church and forgiveness, we have sin in how we have treated our children, because the experts have given us bruces with reality. Now childhood is true that it has protection, more than it has ever had, but subject to the guardianship of other people. Hence the complaint made by the European Union, which is going to investigate the Spanish justice system for not believing children when reporting abuse, and for submitting them for long periods within the judicial framework in order to clarify the veracity of these abuses. And, of course, it is that childhood does not hear, does not listen, does not think, does not learn, and of course, it is heard for it, it is heard for it, it is decided for it, as a mere transit to adulthood, and with this it is undervalued its opinion, its value and its denunciation. Because if something was clear to the informants in that commission too, it is that boys and girls do not lie, boys and girls do not have the capacity, in what they do, not even to fantasize, or to maintain a lie when it is for a long time, for a certain time. That is, it is up to us all and all to make it visible. I will not repeat what we have agreed on, because I share everything, but the public dimension must be made whenever it affects a person who is subjected to aggression, pain, from the utmost respect for his identity and his recovery process. In this visibility and public dimension I will only call and ask for help not only to those we have the obligation, but also to the media (many times this has been known thanks to them, because it had criminally prescribed). And I will make a special call to the courts and courts, because, while there are laws, the laws are not protecting our children. I insist, don't lie. Before the first one I mentioned, to the third case of the abuse of the exvicary, they commented, when he denounced it in the camps: "Say what you want, they will not believe you; it is your word against that of the exvicary lord". That happened, and they didn't believe him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. This is a question of the law of sexual abuses against children today. Actually, it's a serious subject and it's a respect. When the President had asked about the subject in January, we are discussing it today for what he said. But this he said, as he explained, is not put into the context, because it was referred only to what he had said, and we believe that there is the fault. On February 3rd, during the entire check meeting, the President was asked by Mrs. And that we really protect the presidents from the group of eubertists, I will repeat the words that I have just said. "One. We entirely disapprove of sexual abuses against children, both in the Church and in any other institution. "Two. I'm sure you'll do everything that's in your power to get back to your sex prostitutes and, above all, to provide support and support to victims. "And three. In this particular case, this is not just a question of the Church. It's the problem of all the organizations and of all the society. This is not a private matter, it's a public one." So he made it clear: Tolerance zero. Tolerance in the presence of sexual abuses against children! And that's the attitude of our team and the Jelt Party. Even in the proposal of the unlawfull, the Pope and the Elic Range are referred to, but we have seen in the report by the Build that most of the sexual abuses are given, namely, 90% of all the cases given, are given in the family environment. They play sports, camps, schools, churches. But above all, 90% of families, which makes it more difficult because this circle of families is the most intimate area, and family relations, although sometimes they know it, are afraid to break the family and keep it quiet. And here there is always violence in the strong to the weak, whether a husband or a couple of men, or a young son to his parents. Fathers, fathers, and uncles... From the children. So the question is, how we turn out the misinterpreted, powerful freedom medal, what we are going to do for a decent freedom, respect each other. For example, what golden laws we have in our houses, in our lives, in our countries; do not do to yourself what you would not wish to do to the other. Or rather gone: do what you wish to the other. How do we cultivate human dignity, how do we educate it in human dignity? Isn't there a serious need for human recovery? And I'd like to build some reflection on this subject. In the society of the present day, in a society so rapidly advanced, are we not in the presence of a loss? It's the education of the flakes that we have to enter into society. At the present day we have no objection to the education of human dignity, but society has no definite reference to it, and I think we ought to reflect on it. And I think we have a gap there. It's an important policy and it's necessary to face violence, but life can't be made to be refined, or to become a judicial, or even to become a religion. Everyone has to help, but I'm wondering if we're missing some structurers and we're a little lost, whether we're an individual or a society itself. This doesn't work out with slogans. We need to go to the funding. Where? I think it's time to look for individual and collective answers and if this is also a political matter. We must not forget that we all constitute society. We often take care of society over a great many things, saying that it is the fault of society. But we must not forget that each of us constitutes this society, and that every one of us is worth those who will make society one way or the other. We must not give up the responsibility of each of us and abandon all responsibility to the institutions. Let's not forget that we're individuals and citizens from where we are. And although this is the case, we cannot forget our concern in institutions, and therefore take steps in our own despair of action, conscious of the seriousness and complexity of sexual abuses against children. On the one hand, at the Enplegu and Polic Society Department, we have you to tell him the telephonic and telematic service that's been six years old. Hence it is that the younger men are assisted by their assistance and attention, listening to their affairs, and always spreading out their arms to those who are concerned or concerned. This phone is handled by psychologists and the service has been served for six years. I want to say one more time: it is not a fictional initiative yesterday. On the other hand, we have a preventive and professional protocol in the Education Department to work in front of the helpless, sexual harassments, sexual harassments, and the inability of children and teenagers that might happen. In this it must be remarked that it is a protocol made by all the institutions and by the participation of all the existing entities. Also, from the Emenation, the "Afic" intervenction campaign, the protocol against sexual harassments, the guide to persecution, to avoid attacks in the sporting world... Everything we've been talking about in this attic at eleven times. So I don't think there's any reason why there's no work to say there's nothing to say. The situation is not easy, we know that. These are very complex cases. I'm sure he's very serious, too, and he'll do everything that's in his power, and he'll do it against the pants of sex and, above all, to offer full support and support to victims. Besides all these previous actions and programs, it is also explained in the legislature program that the children and the Nerabes project to change the Union Act 3/2005. This bill of laws is guided by the English and the Poly-Community-Songs, and the object is to adapt the laws to the new rules created in the state. So, it's clear that this is the president's situation, and that's what's going on. And finally, thank the lady for her honesty at the beginning and because it's so easy to admit all of us unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing to reply shift... He doesn't have to be part of it. Does anyone want to participate in the answer shift? No? Ms. Arana, right? Then we'll go to the vote. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote EH Collect, Eukal Popula, Basque Socialists, half-correction signed by the Podemos and Eukobertarians together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u94	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Pick up the propose as the parliamentary teams made about the demand for the "Guernica" painting of Picasso to bring in the Gernica. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Aguirre has the word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u95	Good afternoon, head of the table. Good evening, parliamentarians. 80 years ago, in Guernica, people were looking for the missing people wandering among the scionbrus. Today, in Guernica, the Gericans were afraid and couldn't understand. Today, 80 years, the men of war had the keys to their house in their hand, but they had no home. 80 years ago, for the dead, for those who were dying, they were crying in Guernica. "Javier Gardoqui, Josefina Solozabal, Aurelio Legarreta, Catalina Arrieta, Maria Luz Fierro Aguirre (12 hits), Francisco Aralucea, neskato erre bat, Gernikan. "Queen Aldama, ume identifikaezina, Aurelia Candes López, Clara Zaldumbide... Gorputz zatiak. Germana Basabe Ormaetxea, Telesforo Elierobarrutia, María Santa Bilbao Uriona... Well, well, well, well, well, well, Candida Amias. Agure beat the wrong gorputz. Catalina Barrena Barrena. "The pit and Martha of the land, the Hole of the River, and the Hole of the Guernica, "Ast, cow, body, a burnt girl, an unidentified child, in Guernica! "Daniel Ibarzabal, Catalina Arrien Jaio. This is gorputz zati, andreenekin nahastuta. "Juana Beera Bilbao, Jacinta Gandiaga, and hundreds of children who couldn't identify." These last words are not mine but that of the Joseba the Great One, but to-day I have desired to bring them here, with the memory of the dead. Because it is hard to imagine what can be felt from heaven when you see fire fall, and when that fire leads those you love. But it is also difficult to know what the Francos, the Mola, and the Sanjurjo felt today eighty years ago. Maybe at the moment they were greeting each other, I don't know how, if so, with the left, the right... Well, just this week we've seen some images of former Justice Minister Gallardón, but I don't remember if it was with the left or the right. They greeted each other and perhaps congratulated each other. And they also congratulated the Condor Legion and Italian aviation for the success of the operation, for the lesson they had given in Gernika, which is also a town full of symbolism for Euskal Herria. And today, 80 years ago, the propaganda apparatus of fascism also prepared their story: it was the Reds who had devastated Gernika. A story that continues to be officially maintained today. Yesterday we were precisely in Gernika, Maialen and I, and in the food I coincided..., next to me sat a German journalist. He was very young, and he told me that he had not understood well why in the previous act, when the representative of the Colombian Government quoted Mariano Rajoy as the valiant of the peace process, so there were murmurs in the room (I also admit that I murmured). And then I told him, well, I didn't know; that maybe it could be because in Gernika one could believe that Mariano Rajoy can have some connection precisely with those who bombed the villa. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u96	Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u97	And I also told him, for example, in that same act...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u98	Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u99	... in the same act, that the descendants of the Legion Condor asked for forgiveness for what their relatives had done. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u100	Mrs. Aguirre, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u101	...the descendants of the Condor Legion... - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u102	I've stopped your time. Wait, wait, wait. Please, you have time, you have your turn to defend what you want. Please! (Response) Please, Mr. Sémper, you don't have the word. Please, you don't have the word! [[Berber]] He's on his own defense. You don't have the word. You don't have the word! You have a tourno, Popular Party has a turno to talk about! Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u103	For I told him that the descendants of the Condor Legion, as he could see minutes earlier, had asked for forgiveness for the bombing of Gernika, had asked for forgiveness on behalf of their families, and that here, for example, no one has yet officially asked for forgiveness. And I also commented on the images we had seen this week of the former Minister of Justice at that funeral, and he also asked me as a surprise: "Is it not forbidden?". I'm not responding. Verdad, justicia y paración, truth, justice and observation. It's hard for us to know the truth, and we don't know all the truth yet. Justice? Where is it? When they don't want to hear it. And without truth and justice there can be no observation. This we accuse in this law and in the whole world. But the greatest icon of the indictment that has ever been made was made by a genius artist, Pablo Picasso. He managed to frighten her, to tell her more clearly than anyone else what had happened in Guernica. Picasso showed the world what war is, what fear is, what suffering is. Picasso explained what it was to be wandering. Picasso's "Guernica" shouted the world against war. That's why after 80 years, we're here with a clear and precise demand from the Gaste name: "Guernica" we ask that they bring Gernica, Guernica, bring Gernica. Because the power of the indictment of the picture itself will be multiplied in Guernica, and thus it will spread out from Guernica to the world that we know what war is, but that we do not wish either war or war here or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u105	Thank you, Madam President. The issue is important, the issue is serious. Madam President, there is a gentuous woman who uses Gernika's memory to manipulate her, to manipulate her, to defile her, to make her a symbol of confrontation and not a symbol of coexistence, of peace, of rapprochement, of twinning. I've also been to Gernika these days, Mrs Agirre. I've been too! I too have heard the mayor of Rostock and the mayor of Auschwitz and the descendants of the Legion Condor. And I too have seen the testimony of the Mayor of Gernika and the testimony of the person, who made an extraordinary representation last day 25 in Gernika, in an event organized by Gogora. The truth is, an exciting act, and I got excited like I did on other occasions. Because I went to Gernika on such a day as today, or as yesterday, or as before yesterday, many times. But don't use Gernika's memory, don't soil it, don't manipulate it, don't manipulate it, don't insult Gernika's memory. You think that's fair? And if I tell you that you are a colleague or a descendant of those who murdered Gregorio Ordóñez, or Fernando Buesa, or more than eight hundred victims, would it be logical for you to do so in a debate like that? Would it be logical for me to do so in a debate like that? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u106	Silence. Now it's her turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u107	Look, acts like Gernika's the other day and other previous years have prompted us there, we have felt emotion, we have felt bitterness, horror, solidarity... Eighty years before we've been witnesses now, we remember what happened, and with that we stayed and served all of us. And, I say again, Gernika posed as an element of coexistence. Those are indeed new times, that memory, those symbols that have provoked through the painting "Guernica", but also through what Gernika means, of what we have all condemned: of war, of uprising, of injustice, of indiscriminate bombardment of Germans or Italians or of Francoists, or of those who were, over cities and killing people, right? We have condemned you, Mrs Agirre! But you have no right... Madam President, Mrs Agirre has no right to insult, let alone the President of the Government, who has already spoken many times and very clearly in relation to matters relating to the defence of human rights and to the defence of institutional respect, something that Bildu and Mrs Agirre sees to be unknown in a matter like this. Look, I'm going back to the subject, because the subject is also relevant, but it's not new. The issue is not new, we have spoken many times in Parliament about this issue. I have around..., I think it has been six or seven times: in 1981, in 1980, in 1992, in 2006, in 2010... Well, the truth is, on this very initiative we have talked about that possibility, about that matter, we have done so historically in this Parliament. And we have never opposed that Picasso's painting can be exposed in the Basque Country under optimal conditions and prior favourable expert reports. We've never done it. But as I am speaking I am realizing that why I have to give you further reasons in relation to an initiative like this, after what you have told us. After having destroyed a possibility to talk about the "Guernica" in a positive way, to talk about the transfer, why not come to Euskadi, if the experts think it is good, make a temporary exhibition in the Guggenheim, in Artium, in Gernika... Wherever it takes! But it's not worth answering, Mrs. Agirre. It's not worth answering. You don't understand Gernika.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u109	Thank you again, Madam President. I'll go in parts, because I think everything you've been talking about will give you time to talk. Because the interpretation and justification of the motion for a resolution itself referred to memory, and that is what I will be talking about on a second point, because I want to explain first the content of our amendment. I am not going to repeat this, because this is not the first time it has been raised, there have been repeated but not repetitive debates. There have been some new circumstances in all of them. But the Socialist Group states, as on all previous occasions, that we do not refuse a possible transfer of this pictorial work, but that any agreement on that transfer, positive or negative, must be the result of technical criteria that endorse it; criteria and technical reports that guarantee its integrity and preservation. For us, for us, it is the main, the primary and the fundamental. Above all there is the integrity and preservation of a reference work of contemporary painting. For us there is no higher interest, neither political nor partisan, nor economic, nor museum interest, than that which relates to our proposal and is contained in our entire amendment, which is above the integrity and good preservation of this work. There hasn't been one before, there hasn't been one now. We commit ourselves to that best interest. The non-legislative proposal that we are dealing with today has, in our view, that best interest in preserving that work in its entirety and in the proper conditions. Moreover, there are times when we think they are neither concerned nor concerned. He merely stressed that Basque institutions had no problems meeting the conditions for such a transfer. What are these institutions? How many and what institutions are going to intervene? What are the necessary conditions? Where's the report? Who's going to make the report for that transfer? Which body or institution will be responsible for the technical feasibility of this transfer? Who will make the report? Who or which institution will be responsible for the damage that the work could suffer in such a transfer, if there is any problem and that irreparable damage occurs? Who will pay the insurance for the transfer of that work in case it could be carried out? We think, with all due respect, in that sense, for a request of these characteristics, a proposal – if it really wanted and did not want anything else – poorly substantiated. Because what is at stake is a universal, indispensable, irreplaceable work whose loss or damage, if it occurs, would be impossible to compensate. Impossible compensation. The conditions must be important for all, because the "Guernica" is not even Picasso's or the legitimate owners, who are the Government of Spain, being first the Government of the Republic that commissioned it. Neither is ours, not ours. It's nobody's property, because it's the heritage of all people. That is why we do not share his boldness in justifying the initiative, as we have understood, depriving of meaning beyond the city of Gernika, with all my affection and that obvious respect for the women and men of Gernika. This work has its own meaning, and that we all share in this House and beyond. It has a sense and sensitivity that goes beyond Gernika, Euskal Herria, Spain and Europe. He's got a name and a spirit of his own. It has an autonomous symbol that cries out against the horror of wars and violence; a sign of piety in the face of terror. And that is something that is politically shared in Gernika and outside Gernika. It seems to us a proposal, to say it in that way – I insist, from due respect – that is poorly substantiated. Because, beyond assessing whether Picasso's "Guernica" should be transferred to Gernika, temporarily or definitively, it is clear that the agreements should retain it, at least, before it could be transferred to Gernika. A technical report will have to be seen to ensure that it is fully and well preserved when it is moved. And this is what Anny Aviram, responsible for the restoration of the MoMA, says in February 2017. And there's no political will there. Or can anyone maintain that a professional of these characteristics has a spurious political will to deprive Gernika, Euskal Herria, Bilbao, San Sebastián, Madrid, Barcelona of being able to see this work? We believe that what we are dealing with here are incompatible concerns, because for the Socialist Group there is no political reason (or yours, allow me) to justify jeopardizing a work that is a symbolic reference to freedom and the denunciation of the horror of war throughout the world. This work has no borders, and we don't want to put them on us. We all agree here on the universal nature of the work, and it has been said as active and passive. So, we have not just understood that its historical and artistic significance depends on where it is located. For me, talking all the time about "ours" and "us" is an exclusive vision! Because that "we" excludes other thousands of past and recent dead, thousands of dead excluded... Some of you have read of those who were victims that day, that I understand that the others are not alien to you either, those that occurred as a result of other fascist bombings, other Francoist bombings, and other Francoist and fascist aggressions that occurred elsewhere outside Gernika and Euskal Herria, which also matter to us. The "Guernica" is now, Luisa Etxenike said yesterday. The "Guernica" is present, and the "Guernica" includes us all. The "Guernica" is also Aleppo! It's also Aleppo. The "Guernica" is also Aleppo. You used to tell me... I remembered my colleague Edu Madina, and he said, "What would you think, when the Legion Condor came...?". Edu Madina's nanny commented the other day at the SER that she was in her cottage between near Zamudio and Gernika, I think, and saw it happen when they were going to drop the bombs, and they said: "And what has the nanny told you? "That he felt very small." Look, Edu Madina, who also suffered a bombardment a long time later, for whom the "Guernica" is also worth. Because it is in the face of intolerance and violence, come where it comes from. It's everyone's and everyone's. It's everyone's and everyone's. So I don't have the exclusions, because there isn't a "we" or a "our." Not only is "Guernica" understood if it is in Euskadi, or in Euskal Herria. I can understand, for you and for many of those present and present, that it can be an ideal, natural place, but it doesn't have to be the right one because you say so. Because Gernika and Picasso's "Guernica" also understand each other without each other. The city of Gernika has its own name in the historical account of the crimes of fascism, with that bombing, and Picasso's "Guernica" also has its own history. It was never a symbol that represented only the tragedy and only the Basques, or, rather, the Basques who suffered the Franco uprising. Picasso painted this work commissioned by the Government of the Republic to exalt freedoms and demonize wars, and we should not be forgotten. I repeat: we can make our stories live together, that I believe is possible within collective memories, with the limit of the historical narrative of professionals, but let us not do, of what must be a shared and inclusive memory, an exclusive memory. Because the same thing that we Socialists and Socialists say about our recent past, I say in terms of historical memory: we will not allow ourselves to remain in one thought. Do not confuse the common with the same, nor yours with ours, because what we will not do in this matter of historical memory is forget so many Republican men and women, socialists, anarchists, communists, nationalists... which defended the Republic and freedoms in Gernika, in Euskadi and in Spain, and many and many others from outside Spain. The episode that inspired Picasso was a tragedy that we regret and remember. Gernika is a symbol, and the Picasso of "Guernica" too. Interpretations are not unique, they are shared. Let's not do, of what's everyone's, something that rips us apart or makes us dust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u111	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, congressmen. On yesterday's day, April 26th, 80 years ago, Guernica had been bombarded by the people, and to-day, once again, the proposition as well as this legislature is brought to dispute. Once again, knowing from the Eucan Abertists and the Congress of Madrid that several times has been requested to bring the painting "Guernica" back to us. In 1980, the Minister of Madden, announced that when he brought a work of art from MoMA in New York, the people of Guernica deserved the full respect for "Guernica." But today, in 2017, we see again that there is not enough will. At the time of political decision, there is no will enough that Reina Sofía Museum and Spanish Ministry rests on technical reports in order to refuse the ruling proceedings. Of course, the reports which they take as a basis have only been made by museum technicians, but they are different from the other reconnaisssance experts. It is not certain that transporting by road can cause damage to the painting, and that wet can control it. From the Canadian Conservation Institute ensure the possibility of transporting works of art without risk, provided adequate resources and qualified personnel are allocated, and there is planning and diligence, needs that we have not denied from Basque institutions. Already on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the bombing of Gernika, the then deputy general of Bizkaia undertook to seek the necessary means to be able to make the transfer of the work. Today, five years later, it must be said that we are not clearly faced with technically insurmountable challenges for the preservation of the work in a transfer, and yes, as I have mentioned, with a political decision that must be analysed and negotiated. When Picasso's work came back from New York, with the 44-year-old delay, he passed a seven-hour flight. Then, yes, there was a political inpults, and there was a political inpults from New York to Madrid. In 2010, it was in this legislature that all the teams agreed to bring a text to their own work. Even then, in 2006, it was confirmed by the unanimous consent of the media, in which the Spanish Government was required to re-examine and re-enter the latest technical report on the state of the picture. If we take into account that the technical reports to which we refer date from 1998, it can be understood that major innovations in technology can also be applied to safeguard this work. And the reason to ask Gernika for the transfer is that Gernika is a symbol. When it was bombed it was not because it was a military target within the war, but as an experiment, a practice of war over the civilian population. Unfortunately, instead of learning about this slaughter, never to repeat it again, in the Second World War, the Nazis repeated their bombards. That is why I say that Picasso's "Guernica" is a symbol of the cruelty of the war with the civilian population, and the Basque Nationalist group believes it is necessary to continue to claim what we said in our 2010 proposal, which is referred to in our amendment to add to the text presented today in this House by EH Bildu: that we would continue to claim "Guernica" Gernikara, as we are doing today on the occasion of this 80th anniversary. And 80. If we don't get it on the anniversary, we'll try for 90. If we understand technical obstacles, we want to make our will clear. And it can't be forgotten that on the 80th anniversary of the war bombards in Guernica, the commitment to the peace of the Gernics now living, generous to solidarity, the work they're doing and doing from the culture of peace. And for the last time, as has been said before, and in Guernica, we must not forget to consider the refuritions made by the people of Guernica, to be generous, to be generous, to be generous, to be generous after 80 years, because now we were exiled for 80 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Passing over to the group that hasn't issued any correction, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u113	Thank you. Good afternoon. "Guernica" was created precisely to tell the truth, and I don't know if it has been used today – and I'm disappointed, the truth, I say it with absolute sincerity – to tell at least part of the truth. Our group would not feel bad and does not feel bad a priori the old claim that the "Guernica" should be located and exposed in Gernika. In fact, I will say that the first person who proposed it in this Parliament, although then had a different political tour, was then the parliamentarian and general secretary of the Basque Communist Party in 1980, Roberto Lertxundi. But I have to say that it does not seem bad to us if a number of requirements are met that are very important. One of them – already mentioned – is, of course, the one that has to do with the preservation of the work. And another is the one that has to do with the content, yes, political, which has to do with the work, and the political-historical content from which we cannot release this work. I am therefore going to make, on behalf of my group, of our coalition, three major considerations for which we cannot support this initiative: a first technique, a technical consideration; a second political-historical consideration, and a third consideration which has to do with the wishes of the author, which are important desires and which have to do with the political-historical content of the work as well. Technically, it has also been said by some group, the transfer today is difficult, if not reckless. The technicians of Queen Sofia say so, but the majority of experts who have expressed their respect say so. At the very least, we deserve reasonable doubt from all these experts. It should be borne in mind that this work, especially in the 1940s and 1950s, had more than forty-five complicated movements, also taking into account the dimensions of the "Guernica". He went through places as far away as Oslo, London, Stockholm, Chicago, Milan or Sao Pablo, and finally ended up at the MoMA in New York. Already in the last transfer that was made, when he arrived to Queen Sofia from the House of Good Retreat in 1992, experts said that new movements could cause serious problems to a picture that is not in good condition. However, of course, from our group we do not close ourselves to, if there are reports that would allow it, or would consider themselves in favour of being able to move it, reconsidering the position. But there is a second consideration we have to make, which has to do with the political-historical content of the work, and I will try to explain myself. We share with the promoter group, with EH Bildu, that this work is known throughout the world because it denounces the war and the repression of human rights with a loud voice, but this work for us is much more than the denunciation of war and the repression of human rights. It's not just the denunciation of the war in the abstract. If the "Guernica" cannot be understood without the population that gave it name – and in this we also agree – it cannot be understood without the historical context in which it was created, since the work itself is a direct product of that context. The "Guernica", as has already been said, was a commission of the Government of the Republic, of the Government of the State, legitimate at that time, at the initiative of the artist Josep Renau, the great muralist of the Communist Party who at that time held the position of director of the Fine Arts of that Government – as he said – legitimate and besieged by the coup and the war powers of Nazi and Fascist Germany. The aim of the initiative was for Picasso's work to be exhibited on behalf of Spain at the 1937 international exhibition in Paris, as a denunciation of the horrors that were being committed against the civilian population who, with the help of foreign powers, had begun an aggression against the democratic government and against the population throughout the State. Pablo Picasso – and forgive me for saying so, also a militant of my party – identified with the Government of the Second Republic, and for that he did this work of great contribution to that besieged Government. The work was exhibited in that exceptional exhibition in Paris as a denunciation of the barbarity that was being committed against democracy and peace throughout the State. The bombing of Gernika, which gave rise to the name of the work, was a terrible action that the fascists launched against the civilian population to double the Republic and democratic forces. Bombardments that took place in different cities in Euskadi and throughout the State, and that in the case of Gernika had particularly devastating results. The Malagasy Pablo Picasso, committed to his time and to that government attacked, placed all the atrocity of the war in a work that placed the bombing of Gernika as a banner of the denunciation of what was happening in Spain. A bombardment that was effectively denied by its authors in that propaganda that was made in the 1930s. The work was therefore conceived as a denunciation of that war aggression that the people were suffering in that war and that was being distorted by propaganda in Europe. For this reason, from our group, this work, which is the property of the population, of all the peoples of Spain attacked by that fascist and coup uprising, cannot be understood only as a recreation of the terrible bombardment on our Gernika. It is that, but it is much more than that, and hence also its universal value. We understand the symbolic value that Picasso's "Guernica" has for all Basque citizens and especially for the citizens of Gernika, and we also recognize its universal value as a denunciation of the atrocities of wars and human rights violations. But the "Guernica" is an artistic creation arising from the need to denounce and make known to the world what was going on in that war, which remains necessary in a State where the victims of that uprising remain buried in coves and in mass graves throughout geography. And, therefore, the work could be perfectly exposed in Gernika, of course yes, of course yes. But the important thing, in our opinion, is not so much where, but how, since the fundamental thing is that the work and its history are known and understood, and above all that it continues to fulfil that role that it had in 1937: to denounce the barbaric aggression that was undertaken against the peoples to overthrow a democratic government, violating the most elementary human rights, as in the terrible case of the bombing of Gernika. A third consideration, if it gives me time, has to do with the will of the author of the work. Yesterday or the day before yesterday we could read in the press that Picasso's will was for the work to return to Spain when democracy and freedoms arrived. This is true, but it is not complete, since the author's intention was that the canvas should be part of the visual memory of the Civil War, and that he did not want it in any Spain. The author's zeal for this subject is known. It is known the episode that starred Carrero Blanco – that about which can no longer be made jokes – in 1968. From that episode, Picasso's words: "The 'Guernica' will only return to Spain with the republic". Unfortunately, the republic has not arrived for the "Guernica", although in my personal opinion it is only a matter of time. But we have to say that the will of the author, although not most important, is important because of that concept of where the "Guernica" has to be, linked to that pavilion which had specific objectives. And it must be said that Queen Sofia is also doing an excellent job in that regard: you can see, when you enter, the sculpture that is at the entrance in homage to the republic, which perfectly frames this question. These are the general considerations on which our group considers that we cannot support this initiative, based on the statement I made at the beginning that we are not opposed to the "Guernica" being in Gernika. But the conditions are not given for this to be so, and we say it with all our heart. For us, of course, this is the furthest away from a debate between Spain and Euskadi, the furthest away, because for us the picture does have an important political content, the denunciation of war, and, as I said, not in an abstract sense. That is why we believe that we must be careful to ensure the best preservation of the work, both physical preservation and the preservation of the intellectual message or preservation of the work. Two things, however, we do believe that they could be modified as to the continent of the work. One is the state, to which I have already referred: it could be in a republic, as Picasso wanted it to be in that Madrid capital of the Republic and symbol of anti-fascist Europe in the 1930s. And also that great gallery where it is located, which, instead of bearing the name of a Greek lady who has done nothing for culture, could bear the name, for example, of "Public Museum of Contemporary Art Pablo Picasso, or Josep Renau". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u115	In the first place, we are really grateful to you for joining us, because we think we ought to do this among all of us, and those who have suffered the wars and those who suffer (we also remember other places in the world), I think they deserve it. It's just that I'm surprised that those who joined this seven years ago don't make one today. That's what they'll have to explain. And yes, Mr. Barrio, I understand Gernika and I understand many more peoples. I live in Durango: I understand Durango, I understand Otxandio, I understand Eibar, Mrs Romero, and I understand Kobane, and I understand many peoples who are still suffering the war today. The other day I read in an article in El País, by John Carlin, which was very Spanish the theme of indignation, which I felt here today. And he said that that made it easier for people to be so indignant, so, a certain pose of moral superiority, that pose that we suffer here day by day in this House. And I don't intend to feel in any way or show myself morally superior to anyone. What I like is to defend with arguments. And I will tell you, for example, that in Melilla a few days ago the honours of General Sanjurjo were made by the President of Melilla, Mr Imbroda, who is precisely a senator of the People's Party. And I also quote a phrase from Mr Fraga Iribarne, the founding father of the People's Party, who said that Francoism "has laid the foundations for a Spain in order"; a Mr Fraga Iribarne who never came to condemn Francoism. As for Mrs Romero and Podemos, I am a little surprised and draws attention to the fact that there is so much specialist here in the conservation and restoration of pictorial works. I do give you the reason that the painting is badly damaged, and after... thirty-two I think it's the transfers you've suffered, so, well, it is a serious matter. But what we're asking here is the last trip, the last transfer. And if we have managed to reach the moon, then I suppose it may not be so difficult to move a picture from Madrid to Bilbao, if there is actually a will for it. In any case, I do not think the work of this Parliament is to talk about technical matters. And another thing I forgot, yes. As for Podemos, I agree that the "Guernica" has a universal value, but I also believe that the universal also has to be unique. And it was precisely his author who chose Gernika as the part for the whole, and, as far as I know, Gernika is also part of the universe. What we want is for Guernica to be in Gernika. And if he was talking about the continent and so on... then if he was in a Basque republic even better. But, what I was saying, our job here is not to talk about technical issues, but to show political will, and that is our obligation here. And precisely the "Guernica" picture was created from a political motivation. Several people have already repeated it here: it was created on behalf of the Republic, of the Second Republic; for political reasons it also traveled around the world; for political reasons it was also in the United States, or it was not transferred to Spain until Franco died; for political reasons it is also in Queen Sofia, and for political reasons we also ask here today that the "Guernica" be transferred to Gernika. And we believe that this will be the greatest confession we can make to Guernica, Bizkai, the Basque People, and all over the world (we do not forget the wars of the world here to-day), and we believe that bombardings, fascism, and fascism, the greatest confession we can make to all the people who have suffered the war and suffer, would be the most beautiful of all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. The popular Basque Group, Mr Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u117	Thank you, President. Mrs Agirre, I believe that your speech has become irrelevant to Parliament. I don't think you understand any of this, any of what parliamentarianism is. Provoking, manipulating a memory that is of everyone, using it in the way you have done, inciting in the second part also in expressions... He's still trying to use a clean memory with what a dirty speech is. Well, but we're used to you using that strategy. I would like to refer, in any case, to what Mrs Betolaza has raised. And we have referred to the technical issues. We have made a complete amendment in previous debates, several years ago (not just in 2010, but in previous years), and we have already talked about those issues, technical issues. And in addition, if those doubts and impossibilitys are cleared, then let him come to Euskadi, let him come to a temporary exhibition, as happens with so many works that go through geography and that are used at certain times, in definite symbols, at historical moments, to be exposed. And in that sense, I wish, I wish it were. Recently we are also attending..., now the Reina Sofia museum has a show called "Piety and terror in Picasso. The road to Guernica", in relation to the 80th anniversary of the creation of the work, and according to experts, they continue to say that the work is delicate, for the passing of the years and for the journeys it has made, and will require conservation works that are already being studied... It's so delicate – experts say, says the director of Queen Sofia – that you can't roll (well, we already knew that) or take it out of the frame, because you've had trips, many years, and it's wrong. It is even said that because of this deterioration in some areas of painting it is suffering detachments, it is still suffering detachments. In other words, the movement can be what requires a job of maintenance, of work, of cleaning, which is already being studied, something that, according to experts, does not constitute a proper restoration. The "Guernica" is not going to be restored, but it is proceeding first to a period of study, a study in which it has been for a long time, for years. I mean, since we were talking about the issues that affect him in 2010, he was already dealing with himself, seeing what to do: restore, not restore, clean, preserve, varnishes, not varnishes, painting, not painting... Well, it's a debate, it's known, very technical or very linked to the restoration, the artistic or the artistic preservation, that we all escape. But what we know today is that the "Guernica" cannot be moved. Today. But perfectly, if these technical problems are solved one day, these problems of preservation, of replacement or not of the painting, whatever it is, then it will be ready to move. And, of course, as we have said in our entire amendment, the Basque Parliament... , we said that we urged the Government of Spain to take the necessary steps before the Patronato of the Museo Nacional del Centro de Arte Reina Sofía so that, if the technical reports concerning its state of conservation do not prevent it, it allows and facilitates the transfer of the "Guernica" painting from Picasso to one of the museums of the Basque Country that guarantees the optimal conditions of custody and exhibition. Well, we haven't talked about Gernika, because there are extraordinary museums in the country where the conditions are optimal for an exhibition of those characteristics at the best level or at the highest level of conservation and guarantee and protection. It is true that that is so. In addition, political references have already been made in different ways. I think it's okay... it's okay to say hello, it's okay, Mr Hernández, the political hue, the political essence, the political definition of a picture of those characteristics, painted by the painter, and you have all the right and all the legitimacy of the world to claim certain kinship, determined affinity with ideological issues. Of course I do. That's the story of Spain. That's the story of Spain, and that's what Picasso also wanted. What Picasso wanted was for Guernica to be in Spain, along with freedoms. That's why the Guernica could be in Gernika. Perfectly, because he would be in Spain and would be along with freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u119	Thank you, Madam President. No, there's no way there's a lot of art specialists. I can certainly assure you I'm not. That's why what I do is inform me of what those who know about art or how to preserve art think. Anyway, I don't take credit for it. I have few, but I know that this one isn't among them, knowing a lot about art. Nor have I used, I believe, an indignant attitude. I have defended the position that the Socialist Group maintains before and now. For us, it is a priority that any transfer agreement, to which – as the spokesman for Podemos also said – we do not oppose, should be accompanied by reports that can prove that the work is preserved in full and in good condition. I've made myself clear! I've made myself clear. All I've said is that you don't refer to those reports. No more indignation possible. Because it is true that it is a symbol, I said, Gernika is a symbol for all Basques. And so is Picasso, the "Guernica", but I can't talk about a play like this – Mr Hernández also commented – as something only ours. It's not ours! It is not all "our", "us", "our", "us", "our", "our", "us"..., and less so in this work and with this villa, that has managed to represent the values that it has managed to represent. Picasso's painting is an open window. Everyone cries out in pain, and I think that not only the people of Gernika, with what was happening, as Mr Hernández said, in Spain at the time. Not just the village of Gernika. Because it wasn't just an experiment with Gernika. I can tell you that in La Serena, today that Extremadura has come out here, there have been many fascist experiments, of persecution of people. Not just bury them in the gutter, but point them out, sink them into misery. It was made, and it hid from them. Yes, it was also a symbol! And I consider that cry, that cry (do you share with me?), is also in Picasso's "Guernica". Because what happened that time was that the people of Gernika were the victims, in fact they were the victims. But allow me, without seeming neither outraged nor imposed, to finish the intervention, because the only thing I do not share with Mr Hernández is that it will soon arrive that of the republic. It may take a little longer, seeing how the priorities of the parties are when they ask for it. But yes, I will tell you one thing, of what it means to exalt the freedoms that it also means, in addition to the fight against terror, the "Guernica". Because I am particularly proud of those militiamen who were loyal to the Republic, of those who defended the freedom of all, to whom the nationalist gudaris joined, to whom other civilians came from other parts of Spain to defend our land from fascism. 1937 is Gernika, is Matxitxako, is Durango, is Intxorta, is Eibar, is Artxanda and is Bilbao. It's Madrid, Cartagena or Figueras. There are so many thousands of citizens who, thinking as they thought, all ran away from the same thing. They all fled from war, Francoism and fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Euneraries, Mrs. Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u121	Thank you. It's clear here that we're saying "we're ours" Guernica. What has to be carefully closed is that the "Guernica" painting was painted after the Gerkina massacre. The embassy had already existed for the exposure of Paris, but knowing the truth through such a massacre, and by international means, for here the truth was not clear, and the motive was to make Picasso a work of art. If, then, there was a special meaning in Gunikak Pigasso painting and a special connection. That doesn't mean that in so many places, unfortunately, they weren't there at that time. In other parts of Madrid and Bitzkai, there was a heap of atrocidads in all the Spanish provinces. But we all have to make sure if Picasso painted "Guernicea," if he painted this picture, it was because what happened in the city of Guernica. And I think, at the present time, that people who are still alive, and who have made their way for hope and peace, I think it would be a demonstration to work in order to place the painting of Guernica in Guernica. And for that purpose, what was demanded in 2010 is required, and then what we agreed to agree: let him examine again the state and means of the work, to place the Parliament, the Ministry, and the proper institutions in Guernica in Guernica. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u123	Eskerrik asko. Briefly, because I believe that I have already explained our position before and why we do not oppose the "Guernica" being exposed in Gernika or even in Gernika, but why we cannot vote in favour of this initiative. I'm not going to repeat that some are technical issues. And I do not consider myself or believe that in my intervention I have considered myself a specialist in art conservation. In fact, I think I've given him little time, and I've always referred to experts. I don't know what condition the work is, but most experts say it's not in condition. But it is also true that I said in my speech that if there were new reports my group, on the basis of those reports, could reconsider our position, because it seems to us that the physical preservation of the picture at least has to be taken into account. And I don't assess whether he's in a position to come or not. What we have said is that most experts have said no. The Basque Nationalist Party has shown some example of some expert who says yes. Very well, we certainly do not oppose nor will we ever oppose that there be new assessments of the state of the work and, depending on that, possible changes of opinion. And we also fully understand that the universal is also local. That is why I also said that we cannot a priori oppose the "Guernica" being in Gernika, because, indeed, the message that launches the work and for what it was created could be transmitted perfectly in Gernika, as it could be transmitted in Madrid, or as it could be transmitted in Durango. That is true, and, therefore, we would also agree on that. And we also agree that Gernika also has a special connection with the painting. Sure, he gives you a name for something, doesn't he? About the bombing of Gernika was lied, and that is one of the reasons why Picasso painted the picture, but framed in that about the war, that war, was lying, and that that legitimate government had a peremptory need to explain to the world what was going on here. And from there also arises, as I said before, the universality of the work. And, therefore, when the People's Party, Mr Carmelo Barrio, says that Picasso wanted the Guernica to be in Spain, there we do not agree. I wanted him to be in Spain, yes, but there's a hue. It was not in Spain because yes, because for him the important thing was not where geographically, but how. For Picasso, that Spain he was talking about, and that Madrid, capital of the anti-fascist Republic he was talking about, was that space. And the explanation – and that's why it's so important to generate the environment of that universal exhibition in Paris – the explanation of everything at the origin of that painting is at the center, at the heart of Picasso's work. It wasn't so much where, but how. And explain what happened in that war, and more here, in this place, in this state – or call it what you want, because I did not intend to come here to talk about nations or homelands – but what happened here, was a bestial aggression against democracy and against human rights, which was denied, and that government that was curtailed was in serious difficulty in being able to explain it to the world. And the author of the work, Pablo Picasso, in his commitment, did this work. We certainly do not intend to argue. We say that Gernika would be a good place to expose the "Guernica", that Madrid would be a good place to expose the "Guernica", that Barcelona would be a good place to expose the "Guernica", that Seville would be a good place to expose the "Guernica", that Malaga would be a good place to expose the "Guernica"... But it's not so much where, but how and what, and that explains it. And many times we have the feeling that everyone tells their part of the story and their part of the truth. What we are also committed to – because it seems that a little more has been said about this almost than about the work – is to reiterate in our commitment to this kind of fascist regimes that at the time devastated the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote first, and then we'll add to the production of the rebel patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 18; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u125	So the add correction has been accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of the EHG as a team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 18; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-04-27.u126	So the original EH Shade text has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twelve.
