ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please be quiet... I may inform you, that the fourth point has been left for another, and we will enter the subject list with the first point: "The project of the decree of legislation, which admits of a text of the Esquire Economy Esquire, and of the Law of Accounting. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I'm here today to introduce a text made on the Control and Accounting of the Esquire Esquimia Esquimia Esquire, and to request your consent to this parliament. This work of text has been made by the cultivation of the law of the past year, and what has not been possible in the past years has now been accomplished. As has been said, the law of this year offered permission, to make this treaty, and give it six months' time to permit. So even the deadline is up. This legislative decree has been drawn up in compliance with the authorization granted in the fourth, paragraph 3, final provision of Law 2/2017 of 11 April, approving the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the year 2017. This provision authorized the Government to consolidate into one text Law 14/94 of 30 June 1994 on Economic Control and Accounting of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the amendments made to it by other subsequent laws, within a period not exceeding six months from the entry into force of that Law. In addition, pursuant to article 52.4 of Government Law 7/81 of 30 July, such authorization included the authorization to regularize, clarify and harmonize the legal texts to be consolidated, as well as the authorization to systematize and make any necessary terminological adaptations. With this rule, therefore, the Government implements the delegation conferred by the Basque Parliament within the prescribed time limit. Before we can say anything, we must remember that the Act on the Economic and Accounting had been an advance to the definitive configuration and modification of administrative structures. By this law, also, the internal control of our community was first established in a very special manner, and likewise confined to external control, viz., that of the jurisdiction of the People's Court. First of all, it should be recalled that Act No. 14/94 of 30 June 1994 on the Economic Control and Accounting of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi represented a new step towards the progressive configuration of the Euskadi Public Finance and the modernisation of the administrative structures of the Autonomous Community, by incorporating for the first time the structural and complete regulation of the internal economic control of the Public Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, distinguishing this economic control from the external control exercised by the Basque Court of Public Accounts in accordance with its specific rules. As you are well aware, internal economic control is exercised with regard to the economic activity of the subjects and entities of the administration of the Autonomous Community to which the rule itself refers. According to it, internal economic control is exercised through accounting control and intervention control in its various forms: financial and management economic control, fiscal economic control, regulatory economic control, which includes organisational control, and administrative economic control. The regulatory framework for Law 14/94 of 30 June was supplemented by Decree 464/95 of 31 October, which provides for the exercise of internal economic control and accounting in the public administration of the Basque Autonomous Community. However, since its entry into force, the Law on Economic Control and Accounting of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi has undergone various changes of varying scope and intensity, operated by the following legal provisions according to its chronological order: Law 7/97 of 19 June, regulating the system of grants and aids and amending the Law on the Ordinating Principles of the General Treasury of the Basque Country; Legislative Decree 1/97 of 11 November, approving the Recast Text of the Law on the Ordinating Principles of the General Treasury of the Basque Country; Law 9/2004 of 24 November, of the Advisory Legal Commission of Euskadi; Law 5/2006 of 17 November, on the Euskadi Heritage, in turn repealed by Legislative Decree 2/2007 of 6 November, approving the Recast Text of the General Treasury of the Basque Country; Law 6/2011, regulating the General Budgets of Euskadi, in conjunction with Legislative Decree 4 of the Administrative Authority of the Basque Country, in accordance with the Law of Euskadi, in accordance with the Law of Administration, in accordance with the Law of Administration, in accordance with the Law of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of Administration of All these legal amendments have led to a certain dispersion of the text which incorporates the existing rules on economic control and accounting of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi; dispersion which justifies this initiative. In any event, the recasting carried out has responded to the parliamentary mandate, generally limiting itself to collecting in a single text the different rules referred to above, consolidating the legal amendments made since the initial adoption of the law and, to the extent possible, trying to ensure that the new text respects the management of the articles of the original law, even though it reassigns their numbering as a result of the modifications made, and in particular in the provisions of the final part of the text. It has also been used to replace the specific references of departments or bodies with references to the corresponding areas of action that determine the legal provision in this regard, as well as to make the necessary adaptations to avoid the sexist use of language. References to the public administration or to the general and institutional administration have been replaced by their extension to the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community and its constituent entities. The wording of the statement of reasons for the law has been updated, retaining the original structure but deleting references to rules or issues that have been overcome over time. In conclusion, the preparation of the consolidated text had not been reduced to the mere redrafting of a single text, but had taken advantage of the possibilities offered by the delegation to regularize, clarify and harmonize, as well as to make the necessary terminology adjustments. All this is in line with the limits of the exercise of delegated legislation, as has been shown by all the reports collected for its preparation and in the dossier submitted to this Parliament. The consolidated text contains twenty-nine articles grouped into three titles, in addition to two additional provisions and one final provision, maintaining the structure of Act No. 14/1994 of 30 June 1994 on Economic Control and Accounting of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which has been in force so far, and entailing the repeal of this rule as well as provisions of equal or lesser rank which are contrary to that laid down in it. The new consolidated text does not involve any substantive alteration to the organisational structure of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or to the public sector entities linked to it, nor does it entail any economic cost, thus without any budgetary impact. In short – and I finish already – this is a rule whose dictates enormously increase legal certainty in the field of internal economic control, and, however technical it may seem, has a crucial importance in facilitating its applicability to the control of the economic facts that arise in the General Finance of the Basque Country each year. Finally and finally, I think that the legal security needed around economic sector is increased by this rule and, although it seems a very technical rule, it will facilitate economic control with this combination of text. That is why I firmly believe that the adoption of the consolidated text that I am asking you to do today is to renew the confidence that the Government has in the effectiveness of this economic self-control exercised over itself by the Executive, in the assurance that its twofold aspect of preventing and reviewing the economic performance of the Administration is one of the best guarantees for its proper functioning. For all this, I hope that this legislature will approve of the project which I have proposed to-day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. In accordance with the article on the New Year's Law, 52.6, the initiative will be transferred to the entire meeting by a single examination procedure and voting all over itself. There will be a side shift and a counter shift. Who wants to be a part of the side shift? You're all going to vote then. [[Pause]] Since the discussion has ended, the project of the decree of legislation will be voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 44; the contrary, 0; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 26th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u3	The Decree of the legislature, which admits of a text of the Law of the Economy of Euskal Autonomy, and of the Accounting, is approved. After that, we'll go to a vote. Starting with Popular Party, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, because, as the Councillor has explained to us, this consolidated text was already provided for in the Budgets Act. And I just... We have obviously voted in favour, because we agree that the laws contained in a text are more understandable to the citizens, even to us, that we are ultimately the ones who have to manage and work legislation like this. But I would ask the Councillor and the rest of the Government, when they bring in a consolidated text like this, to make it clear in the derogatory provision, in addition to the general clause, which other articles of other laws are repealed. Because in the end we are also often faced with the same problem: reference is made to several laws, even some which do not come even in the explanatory statement of the consolidated text, which are affected by this law, and it would be desirable, in the derogatory provision of the consolidated texts, to make it clear which other texts are repealed apart from the generic which it initially replaces. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u6	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. The Socialist Group has voted in favour of the consolidated text of the Basque Country Economic Control and Accounting Act based on the following considerations. Six months ago, the Basque Socialists, in April, also voted in favour of Law 2/2017 of 11 April 2017 on the General Budgets of the Basque Country for 2017; Law whose fourth final provision proposes the authorization of the Government to consolidate into a single text Law 14/1994 of 30 June 1994 on Economic Control and Accounting of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and the amendments made to it by other subsequent laws. This authorization included regularizing, clarifying and harmonizing the legal texts to be consolidated, as well as systematizing and making any necessary terminological adaptations. Secondly, this legislative decree consolidates the legal changes that have taken place since the initial adoption of the Law on Economic Control and Accounting. It replaces the specific mentions of departments and bodies by the reference to the corresponding areas of action that determine the legal forecast, and also makes various terminology modifications. The most relevant change is the systematic introduction of the referral to the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community where it was originally referred to the public administration or other mentions were made. Thirdly, the legislative decree does not entail any substantive alteration to the organizational structure of the General Administration, nor to its autonomous bodies or entities within the public sector. And the condition in the subjects proper to the General Treasury of the Basque Country and how they are identified in the Law of Computer Principles of the General Treasury of the Basque Country is non-existent. Fourthly, because the model of internal economic control contained in this rule is conceived as a control that seeks to be comprehensive and focus more on preventive controls than on subsequent rules and controls on economic activity, which can change the ways in which economic activity is carried out. The characteristics of the economic control that is sought with the consolidated text are the integral, preventive, reflective and non-interferenceal nature, as well as dynamic. Fifthly, it is also intended to modernise the administrative structures of the Autonomous Community, leading to a progressive rationalization of the procedures which must provide lower rates of bureaucracy and greater agility in the bodies responsible for managing and controlling the public sector from its economic point of view. We voted in favour, sixthly, because this legislative decree also has the favourable report of legal advice, and it also has the report of the Office of Economic Control on this draft, which is also favourable. This includes the justification for the initiative in the dispersion of the text incorporating the existing rules on economic control and accounting in the Basque Country. For all these reasons, we have voted in favour of the legislative decree approving the consolidated text of the Basque Economic Control and Accounting Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u8	Thank you and thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief. Today, as has been said, we are referring to the project of the legislational Decret, which admits of a text of the Economy EsquiE and Accounting. Monday I began to read this text, including reports, and I was really surprised. I got to page 145, and read that there is no need for report on the genus engineer at this time. Together we are constantly working at Podemos, in order that the equality of men and women may not be a confession of their intentions, or more than an empty discourse. We want equality that is real and real. We want an Euskadi for one hundred percent of its population, for all women and for all men who live and build together a better society and a society of equals. We are fully convinced that we have a pressing need to move towards greater equality of opportunity and results. But not just on top of the paper, no. That's not enough. We want actual equality in politics and in economics, even in manufactures, in employments, in culture, in environmental circumstances, in houses, in streets, or in decisions. Policies, norms and actions that are not guided by the principle of equality, that do not incorporate the gender perspective or positive actions, are exclusive policies, that leave out 50% of the population and thus reproduce the inequalities that generate discrimination and machist violence. In order for equality to be real and for equality to be effective in all areas of life, it is essential that each and every department of the Basque Government, within its competence, be held accountable and commit resources, measures and concrete actions. And today we abstained, yes. We abstained because we want to express our absolute disagreement with the repeated refusal to include measures to promote equality in the economic, industrial and technological fields. Last Thursday the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party voted against incorporating equality into the cluster of Euskadi's university education in engineering, science and technology. Do you think this is serious?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u9	Mr. Bollain, I'm sorry, but it's a vote, it's not the other team... No, no. You have what you have there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u10	Yes, yes, yes. Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u11	But it's not a chance to get in with other teams, because... Do you understand?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u12	No, no. The same happened last Tuesday with the rejection of the amendment to the Industry Plan to include the principle of equality. And today this decree is adopted without having a gender impact assessment report, nor a report justifying why it should not be carried out. We know that in 2012 there was a Governing Council agreement that a consolidated plan or legal text is excluded from the obligation to carry out a prior assessment, but do you not want to be pioneers in equality between men and women? Well, prove it. Prove it! Faced with this, we are truly concerned that there are government guidelines to reduce and reduce departmental responsibilities in ensuring that all public policies contribute to equality. And the economy also believes that it is key to equality, and technology and industry, strategic sectors in the economic development of Euskadi. Meanwhile, in the actions taken by this government, 50% of citizens are often left out, and that is why we abstained, because we thought that a gender impact report was needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mrs. Pindo, aren't you going to say a word? No one? Okay. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. Our legislative decree, which we have in hand, has voted for our legislative party, on the one hand, because we have been enabled by this legislature. We were the representatives of this ability in the executive power by the law that supports the budgets of 2017 years old. Therefore, because you have done nothing but obey our commands. On the other hand, there has been a technical work which has been connected with it, which has been explained, and, apart from this, as the chief physician has discussed, has served to make adaptations of terminology. And we believe that there is an important adaptation of terminology, which enters into the text, which we think ought to mention. That is to say, the text will now use the term "The Public Sector of the Euscan Autonomia," represented by the former, the Public Administration of the Euscanomical Autonomy, and other Determinations. We believe that this is favorable to the legal security of the Basque Autonomia, because they do not penetrate into the public administration of the Renaissance, public societies, foundations, and compartments, and the concept of that public sector. So, on the side of the legal security, we took another step forward. On the other hand, as the chief physician has discussed, this project, which is presented to us, has no influence on the budget. It's our intention, it's a technical job, which serves to take a step more within the legal security camp, and has no influence on budgets. And also because it fills all the legal reports you have sent us. You've reduced yourself to this ability we've given you and what appears in legal reports. For instance, in the report of the genus, in the juridic report, we say: "No report has been made concerning the influence of the genus, based on the predictive action of the genus, and the establishment of equality between men and women, and the setting of measures on the denial of the differences. These measures were adopted by the consent of the Council of Government on August 21st, 2012. The first policy is that in letter 2.c they will not need to make this report by projects already designed to match the rules already made." So you've done what you've promised, you've done what the legal reports and all the other reports say, and that's where to clear up, it's a vote for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Second point on the subject list: "Auterist and Euska Socialist, a bill of law made by parlamentary groups, about the public Esscal sector. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. Does anyone else want to join these groups on the side shift? Anyone else? No. Okay. A vote description. Any counter shifts? Not even. Okay. Well, then we'll start our shifts. Mrs. Castelo, representative of the Basque Socialists will begin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u16	Good morning, everyone. Today, the Socialist Group proposes to this House that we take a step further in clarifying the whole of public administration, a law of the public sector that aims to order the agencies and instrumental entities of all administrations to gain in efficiency, with mechanisms for evaluating and rationalizing the entire public sector to avoid duplication and inefficiencies. This is another step in addition to the Incompatibilities Act that we agreed on in the past legislature and the transparency law that has already been put into effect. Three legs of the same idea, which the Socialists started trying to order two legislatures ago and which we hope will culminate, with the contributions of all groups, during this legislature. And, although the drafting of the law is included as a commitment of the legislative calendar of the Executive for its referral to Parliament in the second quarter of 2018, both socialists and nationalists have seen the opportunity, starting from the text presented in the previous legislature, to take into account the contributions that have already been registered to improve it, and thus be able to anticipate this forecast. With this initiative and the proposals already registered in this way, of the laws of vocational training and transparency, in addition to the progress in the reform of the Income Guarantee Income Law, the Socialist Group, together with the Nationalist Group, we collaborate in speeding up the legislative pace of this House. The intention of the Socialists with this proposal for a law is to make it a law of the head, which organizes the set of rules that structure the Basque public sector, in order to reduce the dysfunctions and contradictions that are currently generated by the extensive legislation in force on the subject. But it is not just a question of codifying the existing regulation into a single text; the proposal for a law has a much greater ambition, and it wants to bring coherence on the organization and functioning of the public network of our Autonomous Community. It is intended to be a reference text to address the necessary modernisation of the organisation and functioning of the three institutional levels of Euskadi. The main objectives of the law are, from our point of view, simplification and effectiveness. And so the text, through its five titles, regulates in an orderly and cohesive way the Basque public sector, understanding this as the set of public administrations, autonomous bodies, public bodies governed by public or private law, public societies and other instrumental entities from which the various levels of government, both the autonomous and the foral or the local of the Autonomous Community, are used for the implementation of public policies in defence of the general interest and the common good. It regulates its functioning and its obligations, defines the competences of each public entity, establishes the obligation of collaboration and coordination between administrations, and the procedures for control and registration in each of them. Its principles, the principles of this law, will affect all institutional levels, without prejudice to the corresponding competence of each of them. There is also recognition of the formulas, as it cannot otherwise be, for the attention to and participation of citizens, e-government, and the emphasis on management evaluation processes and the introduction of new measures to promote efficiency and effectiveness. In this regard, the requirement is that a report be drawn up within one year on all collegiate bodies, their administrative integration, their dependence and their functions, with an assessment of the rationality of the current organization, to be concluded with a proposal to simplify the existing structure. The functions of the Basque Council for Local Public Policy, which was created by the Municipal Law for the study and elaboration of proposals regarding the possible inefficiencies, overlaps and duplications between the public sectors, both in the Basque public sector and in the state public sector, are also expanded. The Socialists highlight these two important changes, namely the simplification of the administration and the study of inefficiencies and duplicities. Both issues, which you can see, have been included through additional provisions that respond to the government agreement signed between the Basque Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party, which already stated that this law must avoid duplication and redundancy, rationalizing and simplifying the whole fabric of public companies and societies. And I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. Today there is already a need recognised also by Basque institutions to regain confidence in the public sector, from a new administrative culture that demands the present times as well as society. A culture based on effectiveness and efficiency, organization and governance, transparency and, of course, citizen participation. And that is why, as I said at the beginning of my speech, with this proposal we intend to complete the path taken in past legislatures with the adoption of the Law regulating the Code of Conduct of the Public Position, with that of the regime of incompatibilities, and with that already presented and mentioned law on transparency, which will be discussed in parallel with this law. For all that I have explained to you, for all that we have said, I ask for the support of this House for its handling.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. We're talking about the local patriots and the Basque Socialists. We're signing the legal proposition today and we're trying to explain the reasons for introducing them today. The proposal for a law of the Basque public sector that we are bringing today for consideration follows the path already laid down in the previous parliamentary term both by the Basque Government and by this Parliament. It has as its background the bill of the Basque public administration approved in September 2014 by the Basque Government and withdrawn by the Basque Government after its parliamentary handling by the negative political context, and takes as its basis the bill in this area that fell to the end of the legislature. We are now taking up this draft, which has been adapted and enriched by many of the amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups. Both groups have seen the opportunity to continue with this work and also to speed up the legislative pace of this House. The proposed law of the Basque public sector fills a major regulatory gap in the Basque Country. The current regulation is old and clearly insufficient to meet the challenges of the new model of public governance. Since the adoption of the Government Act in 1981, Euskadi needs a law of its own with the rank of law that reflects the general principles of our legal system of organization and operation. Partly, this need has been covered by the Law on the Computer Principles of the Basque General Treasury; however, although this rule had its virtue at the time, it is currently insufficient to fully regulate this matter. For example, if we look at other autonomous communities, or the Government of the State itself, together with the Government Act, they have a law on the organization, operation and legal regime of their public administrations. However, in Euskadi, due to various circumstances, we do not have a law of our own in this matter. It is therefore urgent to properly articulate the foundations on which our public sector should be based and thus respond in a more effective and agile way to the needs of the citizenry. Citizenship that is increasingly demanding with the public. We are a complex, diverse, politically plural and institutionally articulated society at different levels. That is why our model of public governance must be based on a modern, open, innovative, relational, inclusive and networked public sector, and also on the principles of efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, evaluation and participation. That is why we want a public sector committed to the right to good administration. As to the nature of the law, the proposed law of the Basque public sector is largely programmatic in nature. It is a text that incorporates a set of principles and values, and promotes a progressive cultural change, of modernization of the entire public sector. The public sector is understood as a group of public administrations, autonomous bodies, public and private law bodies, public societies, and other instrumental bodies from which the various levels of government of this country are used, such as the autonomous, foral and local. But all this respecting the competence of each institutional level and without exhausting the organizational space that corresponds to each of them. Secondly, this proposal for a law has a normative and codifying nature. It has a vocation to collect our legal regime, how we organize ourselves, how we exercise our competences, how we relate to citizenship through e-government... And furthermore, the government of eloquence is confirmed in the administration area. He recognizes two official Basque languages as a language for service, as a language for relationships and for work. All this, under the rules which are applicable. In short, this law promotes and consolidates our own model; it does not seek radical or traumatic transformations, and it does intend to continue to advance in a process of change already begun. A process also aligned with the most modern paradigms of European governance, and which also respects our basic institutional system. In addition, the law will preserve a space for public officials at every moment to design their own organizational model. As for the content of the law, we highlight three milestones. The first would be to tighten the formulae for the creation of new management figures. At a time when society demands to limit the size of the public sector, from the Basque Nationalist Party we think it is especially necessary to subject the creation of new entities to rigorous and restrictive processes, and also subject to political control and evaluation. And all this is reflected in article 42 of the body of the law, which also requires for its creation the adoption of a law of the Basque Parliament or a decree of the Basque Government, according to the class of entities. Thus, new entities will not be created if the general interest is effectively and efficiently guaranteed with the entities we already have, and if new ones are created, we should proceed, if necessary, to reorder what we already have. In addition, this control circle is closed with the creation of the Euskadi Register of Public Sector Entities, in which the main vicissitudes of the life of these entities must be recorded. The second milestone is to avoid overlaps and duplications that are unnecessary and ineffective, in order to streamline and simplify administrative structures. In this regard, evaluation must be crucial. And the third and final milestone in terms of the content of the law would be to equip our legal system with good and new tools, so that through them we can review what we have. For this reason, Euskati requires a law which will receive the legal regime of our public sector, order and conduct. And what he will take in him is the example of our public administration and of our good administration. To this end, three foundations taken, those already mentioned: the severity of formulas for the production of new administrations, stalifications, and doubles, and supplying them with good and new instruments. It is therefore urgent to adopt a law on which to establish our Basque public sector. It is urgent to promote a rule that will fill the regulatory gap in this area in the Basque Country and that operates from the perspective of good governance and a new administrative culture. And finally, we demand protection from the Chamber legislatures, because it is necessary to obtain such an important challenge. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Are there no counter-effects? Doesn't anyone want to be involved? [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters 44; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u20	So we consider the law's proposition. We'll go next to the vote. First of all, the representative of the Basque Popula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The Group of the European People's Party has voted in favour of this rule because we believe that it is an important and necessary text. That it is necessary to demonstrate this already at the end of the previous parliamentary term, when the Government presented a very similar article to which the two proposing groups presented to us on this occasion, which shared exactly the same objectives. And since we are cooperating in its processing, we are presenting a large group of amendments, most of which have not been taken into account by the proposing groups in presenting this new text to us at the beginning of this parliamentary term. However, we will be back to work, and try to improve this articulation that will govern the Basque public sector, which we believe is important precisely because of the volume of its activity. Account must be taken of the enormous economic activity involved, the large volume of public budgets affecting the entire Basque public sector, and above all the large number of citizens working for this public sector, and therefore its enormous social impact. We understand that what the text has to achieve is to order, organize, obtain a record of all the entities that are part of the Basque public network; that there is unanimity in the creation of these entities, in their extinction and in the application of their assets and liabilities when they disappear, and, above all, in the enormous social impact they have, in order to ensure that they are an instrument at the service of the citizen and not an instrument at the service of the government of office or an instrument at the service of political parties according to the changes that can be made in the various electoral processes. That is why we have voted in favour, and that is why we have reached out to sit down and work immediately and collaborate with the proposing groups, to which we ask them to trust (especially we ask them to trust) the lehendakari and his team. This bill was within the legislative timetable of the Government. I do not know if you have considered that the Government is not capable, is not prepared to comply with that legislative timetable, as we have seen in the previous legislature, and you have broken that parliamentary courtesy and have moved forward and submitted a text to prevent the Government from having to do so. We understand that this does not happen in order to skip all the mandatory reports that this Parliament by law compels to carry the bills that are brought to the House (the economic impact reports, the reports of the Legal Advisory Commission and so many others that have to come from the hands of the projects that the Government presents), thinking that its only wish is that the Government will not be able to comply with the legislative timetable. In less than six months since the introduction of the legislative calendar, we have already been presented with two bills that the Government planned to introduce later, and you are moving forward because you do not trust them...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u22	Yellow tree, explanation of vote. Beste alderdiekin sartzeko momentua da kontrako, aldehyde txanda. Explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u23	Yes, Madam President. If I'm explaining myself!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u24	Yeah, but not to mess with other games. That's how you open my turn...!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u25	Okay. For, precisely because we trust that these were not the intentions of the proposing groups, we from here turn our hands to the Government for future projects that it is unable to present, and for this particular one, to collaborate by creating a presentation and presenting the necessary amendments to improve the text that has begun its parliamentary procedure today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Macazaga... together Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u27	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. In considering the proposed law of the Basque public sector formulated by the groups supporting the Government, my group Elkarrekin We have abstained. And I'm saying this because it doesn't look like we've read the same text. That abstention is justified by a number of considerations which I am going to put forward. The first consideration is that we believe that this initiative should come from the Government in the form of a bill, with the resulting impact studies, not only economic, but also environmental, social, even gender-based. This is something that we think is of the utmost importance. The explanatory statement of the proposed law states that it is a question of improving the legislative quality of the management of the public sector administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, which will lead to an improvement in citizens' perception of it, and we believe that this formulation, accompanied by efforts to define, register, interrelate, subject to criteria of creation and operation and to standards of efficiency, efficiency and transparency, could be positive. However, we find that, in order to facilitate the best understanding of the norm, an effort must be made to refer to basic standards that can also be applied, and also, to the extent possible, to conform to conceptual standards, separating themselves from them only to the extent that a competence or material specialty so requires. Thus, we believe that it is often the perception of the citizenry of being in a labyrinth of difficult departure when they have to be handled in the institutional framework of the Basque public sector, and even the certainty of being faced with something more chaotic than organized. And let's not say when you should also consider a multilevel organization that uses different terms to refer to identical conceptual realities. Simplification and clarity should be our main concern as legislators; however, we find that this bill does not meet some necessary requirements in terms of systematization, clarity and quality. And since it seeks to regulate the organisation and functioning of the public sector in our community, in addition to establishing common principles and standards that apply to the rest of the Basque public sector, it does so in a complex and unsystematic way, giving the impression that it is rather a compendium of legal principles applicable to the general public administration and organisational management techniques and directives of any administration, a true text of references that brings coherence to this area. Another aspect to which we would like to attach importance is the regulation of the evaluation system, the implementation of which is relegated to the regulatory development and the Office of Economic Control. This implies that the evaluated person sets the rules with which he or she will be evaluated. A genuine leeway in many aspects of control and accountability, fundamental aspects without which it is impossible to verify efficiency, efficiency, transparency and governance, as well as to make it very difficult for citizens to participate in public affairs. Similarly, while a reference is made to it, we perceive a lack of ambition to limit the phenomenon of the flight from administrative law, and the increasingly common practice of administrations to operate through interposed entities that would escape the application of administrative law, in the interests of a supposed need for greater flexibility and agility in the management of their interests, which, let us not forget, are also public affairs. That lack of ambition, if it is not cut short in time, could protect corruption, revolving doors and other unwanted phenomena, I hope for no one in this House, for the dose of lack of transparency with which they are allowed to act, and with particular defencelessness of the public interest, the common good and citizenship. Finally, from the point of view of municipalism, it should be mentioned that the regulation of articles 10, 60, 61, 65, 66, 70, 71 and 72 of the first additional provision must be examined, as it cannot otherwise be, from the principle of local autonomy, which has constitutional status as basic territorial planning. However, the lack of clarity and systematic rule makes it very easy to misinterpret them. In short, we are faced with a later text that has an opposite effect; a future law that is difficult to integrate, understand or comply with, or that simply increases the bureaucratic burden, being a fairly common risk when the law in question is filled with purposes and good intentions instead of standards. Because let us remember that legislative quality is more an attribute of the rules themselves and not of good intentions. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we abstained because we are open to debate and to contribute to the improvement of the future law of the Basque public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Does Mrs. Pindo have to speak? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u29	Thank you, ma'am. I'm not coming with any major nods today. Again we have a law that the Government had in its legal calendar, but once again the Government has not brought it. They're brought by two teams supporting the government. So, on my side, there's not much more to be said about it. These are not modes for us. Two weeks ago you did the same thing with the law of transparency, and here you explained the law as if it had been done by you. These are not really modes of bringing the Law to this parliament. Today, once again, we have on the table a law, a bill that the Government had undertaken to submit, a law that was on the legislative timetable of this Government, and once again we have it presented by the parliamentary groups that support the Government. And they come here and again, as they did with the law of transparency, they present it as their own law. It is true that with some phrases of bonorollism, but own law. A law that is basically a copy of the draft of the previous legislature submitted by the Government, and a law that again presents as if it were the result of the work of two parliamentary groups. And it's not. A law that, like the transparency law they presented, contains whole paragraphs written by other groups in this Parliament that do not sign this bill. And I said it with the law of transparency and I say it again today: these are not forms, these are bad beginnings to process a law that apparently is so important. And I say that it is apparently so important because, if the Government introduced it into its legislative calendar, I understand that it is because for the Government it is an important law. But, in fact, we do not seem to be able to abandon the obligation to comply with that legislative timetable which was self-imposed by the Government (none of us here imposed it, it is a timetable which was self-imposed by the Government), and it again abandons its functions and allows the groups supporting it to bring it here to Parliament. The truth is that the excuse for speeding up the legislative pace is not valid. It will be a self-explanation or self-justification, but it is not a valid excuse. The legislative timetable is to be fulfilled, and calling on the rest of the groups to be held accountable is out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Third point in theme list: "Provide the same proposal as the parlamentary team, concerning the formation of the nuclear Plant in Garoña. Discipline and final resolution. It's yours to introduce and support the word, Mr. EH Collecter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u31	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Since it was summer, it passed without much headlines, but we have a very good piece of news in our hands: The Garoña is closed forever. And first of all, thank you and congratulations to the thousands of tribes of eucalypcans and especially to the Arabs who have been fighting Garoña for many years, and who have not been disappointed in the long years, the streets have been called "the eternal lock up"-and finally, even if the news has come more than they please, Garoña is shut shut up for ever. It's been a long time fighting Garoña, organising in the streets, producing institutions and working for today for years, we can say that the nuclear threat has gone a little further from the Basque Country. I want to congratulate anyone who's been working in different institutions for Garoña's close. Even in the preceding political course, due to the danger of reopening Garoña, we accepted a proposal in this parliament with great political protection. In consequence of this, the lawyers of the legislature had also laid their integrity and their work upon the table, publishing a report about what might first be done before reopening, and even after the settlements had been made. And, my dear Pagazartun, I would like to thank you for the profession of the lawyer in this house. I'm afraid of boring Mr. Barrio, but there are still some things to say and study about Garoña and nuclear Plant. That's why we've brought in an initiative about Garoña, because the fact that Garoña is closed doesn't mean the Garoña case could be put to an end, much less the problem of nuclear energy. And this is the first thing I wish to say: The Garoña has closed off forever, and that gives us a little peace as long as we live around it, we'd be the ones of the first nuclear accident. We can sleep a little more quietly, obviously. Baina honek ez of the nahi Garoñako elementu nuklear desberdinek oraindik kalterik egin ezin dutenik. Uda honetan bertan izan dugu albiste elementu erradioaktiboen kutsadura. Honela zioten medioek: "Residues of radioactive material are detected at the Garoña nuclear power plant. The last inspection carried out at the Garoña nuclear plant has detected the trace of an old radioactive caesium spill next to the temporary warehouse of cans and waste from the plant, which was not detected at the time or was not properly decontaminated. The contamination was found on June 20, during a routine inspection, under three concrete containers without moving since 2009, as reflected in the last minutes of the CSN plenary meeting." So Garoña has stopped since 2012. But this year's summer the news of the radioactive matter leaking. That's reality. As for the rest, that's why we've come to agree and ask Garoña for other matters which are indispensable to follow. To know that in the dismantling work, which must begin without further delay (do not pass as in Vandellós, which has been closed since 89 and is not dismantled)..., that the safety of people and the environment must be guaranteed in the dismantling process, and also to offer guarantees of transparency – as Elkarrekin Podemos has provided to this initiative –; that in order to guarantee an active surveillance in the process an interinstitutional commission is created; that the plan of economic reactivation of the Garoña area includes the municipalities of Araba included in the zone of influence of Garoña, and another very important thing: to ask from this Parliament to proceed, giving continuity to the decision on Garoña, to the closure of the rest of the nuclear power plants of the State. Besides specific requests, and perhaps for a long time about Garoña and nuclear energy in this attic, I think it's proper to make a minimum bullet today, a reflection about nuclear energy. Last month I saw the light of the 2017 Nuclear Industry State Report, a report that comes from the nuclear industry itself and the conclusions I believe cannot be clearer, and I read some parts. This report is perhaps the most decisive document in the history of nuclear energy. The report makes it clear and in detail that the debate is over, nuclear energy has been overshadowed by the wind and the sun. Perhaps the revolution has not been televised, but it has also occurred. Renewable energy is cleaner and cheaper, and it is a safer alternative to fossil fuels than nuclear energy. The world does not need to build more nuclear plants to prevent climate change, and certainly much less to save money. I think this will make it clear, that the period of nuclear energy is nearly over. But before we finish, let's think about it a little longer. We used nuclear energy, even in Basque Country, because our network belongs to the state, and 70. From the beginning of the decade, we can say that we've used nuclear energy for two generations, twice, but the world will have to endure the effects of nuclear energy for a long time. And this must be taken into account when dealing with post-nuclear energy, and it must be made clear that this does not end when nuclear power plants are closed, and in fact there are a number of problems. Intergenerational solidarity and the principle that the polluter pays obliges us not to transfer environmental and economic costs to the next generations. This also obliges European legislation. Will it be fulfilled? To solve the economic issue, a fund was created in 1983 (it started late, since nuclear energy had been used for more than a decade), and the latest General Nuclear Waste Plan estimates that EUR 20 billion will be needed to finance dismantling and storage, temporary and definitive, deep geological storage, which should be built in the 1980s. That has forty years of life in nuclear power stations, because if it is expanded, as some want, the cost would obviously increase. Of these estimated 20 billion, some 5,000 have already been spent, most of them in Zorita and Vandellós, and there are now about 4 billion euros in the fund. Easy account: EUR 11 billion missing. Or, in other words, in thirty-three years, 9 billion have been raised, and in seven, 11,000 should be raised. It is clear that the objective will not be met. Or, seen in perspective, the relationship between the provision of funds and the useful life of power plants is the worst in Western Europe: while the useful life of power plants is around 60%, the provision of funds does not reach 30%, far from the average of Western Europe. And this, unfortunately, has several, but above all a political leader, and is called the People's Party. If you are interested in this question, in the reply we can detail this, because it is obvious. Edozein moduz, honekin bi kontu ondorioztatu ditzakegu. Bat:, datozen belaunaldiek, energy nuklerra eabiliko ez dutenek, energy nuklerraren ondorio ekonomikoak jasan beharko dituztela, age ondorioz, belaunaldien arteko elkartasunik ez dela bermatuko. And I do not say this, says the Court of Auditors in its report 1.075, which I quote in text: "It would not be guaranteed, as required by Community legislation, that part of the costs arising from the closure and dismantling of nuclear power plants will not be transferred to future generations, a principle which also inspires national environmental protection legislation". That's number one. And second, nuclear waste, nuclear infection and nuclear risk, we'll give it to the next generation. And not only the next generation, but the next, and the next, and the succeeding generations. Today, in the world's level, there are 300 million pounds of nuclear waste. And in the next 100,000 years, you've heard well, in 100,000 years, some of those dangerous issues will be for people. So, you use it for two generations, and it takes 4,000 generations to complete the risk. This is by no means a solidarity between generations. And to conclude, it seems important to me that there are still more open than 440 nuclear Plants in the world, in the twenty-nine different states. Do you know, how many of these 29 states have the work of permanent storage projects started? Only at once in Finland: It's a piece of cake. They'll be building over 100 years and need 100,000 years to last. I'll give you a little bit of curiosity. Do you know that the most permanent human construction hasn't lasted ten thousand years? Well, we have to multiply it ten times now. Look at the challenge. Is anyone able to make sure that it's okay? Is there going to be no problem in the future? No one, of course. Look at all this and I don't need to get into Thire Mile Island, Chernobil or Fukushima, so I'll ask the other teams. Can we predict that the bet on nuclear power has been a terrible historic error? We think we can. And the last question: Those who have driven nuclear energy shouldn't say something about this? We think we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. When Minister Nadal announced last August 2 the closure of Garoña obviously our group had the satisfaction of duty fulfilled, but we are not going to hang that medal. The medal of the closing of Garoña belongs to the citizens of Gasteiz, Araba, who in the streets managed to close this nuclear power station. We were not, it was not the political groups, but it was the people, the ecological movement, who pushed this closure. And, therefore, those who now hang the medals and the recognitions should recognize in turn that if they acted to shut down the nuclear power plant, it was when they saw the threat of social consensus, the threat of people united against a power plant that they considered dangerous and unnecessary. But I just want to remind you that what we said about last February is here together from Podemos. On one side we declared that Garoña wasn't necessary, and we were right. There's no need for nuclear power, not here, nowhere. Not even in the Spanish State. The power to produce electricity in the Spanish state is twice and half as great as the maximum consumption. And on the other hand, as Mr. Otero has remarked, it's more expensive than nuclear energy from oil and water. So not here, not anywhere. And "Close Garoña" is fine, but also "no radio." As I say, Garoña wasn't necessary. Neither Garoña nor the rest of the nuclear power plants. As Mr Otero said, the battle for nuclear energy is won, it has been won after forty years by environmental movements, and it has been won by society, Alavesa society and Victorian society. However, the political, ideological and media battle still remains at the level of the Spanish State, and here we have to say that, despite the fact that a planned and orderly closure of the entire Spanish nuclear fleet is already needed, we have some parties, led by the People's Party, which have acted with an irresponsible attitude, which has even led to compromising the credibility and independence of the Nuclear Security Council in order to promote the interests of the nuclear power companies. We know (everyone knows) that nuclear energy is expensive and dangerous, but the most dangerous of all is the radioactive waste that will remain for hundreds and thousands of years. And it has to be said that here in Garoña we have a problem, we still have a problem, and it is that the radioactive waste from Garoña is right now in a pool, and the ecologists have already warned that there may be broken fuel rods, which make it complex and dangerous to move to a temporary warehouse like the one you want to build inside the plant. It is therefore essential, as will be reflected in today's statement, to set up an inter-institutional commission to ensure that the entire dismantling process is carried out in a secure manner, both for citizens and for the environment. This individualized temporary warehouse must be monitored, because, unfortunately, it is not going to be a temporary but timeless warehouse, because the definitive warehouse that should be built in the Spanish State does not exist today, and there is no prospect that it will exist in the coming years. Therefore, in Garoña, despite the dismantling of the core of the plant, high-activity radioactive waste will continue to exist for an indefinite period. And I'll finish my speech by talking about the future of the region. It has been said countless times, in that media battle, that the future of the Tobalina Valley, that the future of some of the peoples of Alava, was nuclear energy. On the contrary, what nuclear energy has done is to mortgage the future of these places. For an idea, in the valley of Tobalina in the 1970s there were 3,600 inhabitants, right now there are only 1,000. There are only 1,000, who live at the nuclear power plant. Little more. No other economic activity has wanted to settle in that valley because of the threat they had from the nuclear power plant. Obviously, it will be necessary to make a plan for the economic revival of the valley in order for it to regain its economic activity, but let us not alarm the citizens, and above all let us not alarm the workers who are working at the plant right now. The dismantling work will last at least ten years, and the experiences that exist today in Zorita's case are that the number of jobs during the dismantling will triple (to triple) the number of jobs that existed when the plant was open. Therefore, there is no risk for employment in the valley, and what needs to be done is to establish an economic recovery plan that within ten years or more will help to develop non-industrial activities, but linked to the vocation of that valley and of the peoples of the Alavese that surround it: ecotourism, the respectful enjoyment of nature, sustainable and value-added agricultural and livestock activities, etc. I conclude by saying that from Elkarrekin we can congratulate ourselves, as it could not otherwise be, on the closure of Garoña, and we welcome the fact that there is a majority statement by this Parliament in favour of a control of the decommissioning of the plant, an interinstitutional control that this dismantling is carried out safely, and that in the future there is a reactivation plan for the region. But let us not be mistaken, Mr Otero has already said: we should recognize today that support for nuclear energy has been a historic mistake that is going to cost us, it is already costing us, dear to all the places we have had to suffer from these nuclear power stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u35	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Otero, no, don't bore me. I always try to learn something from parliamentary debates and initiatives, even though they are repetitive and even though we are faced with one of the most irrelevant initiatives that have been seen here in recent times. I guess some of them were – it gives me the feeling – frustrated with the decision to shut down Garoña. It gives me the feeling that some, I don't know, took some bad news. Last August 1st Mr Otero seems to have taken a great displeasure: the Government of Spain had just closed Garoña. The Government of Spain had just closed Garoña. A People's Party government shut down a nuclear power plant in Spain. A PP government shut down a nuclear power plant in Spain. It is a panorama..., for some I think it has to be an unbearable panorama to contemplate: a government of Spain, a government of the PP, closing a nuclear power plant. Unbearable. I understand you, I understand you that in this regard you have to express all these criticisms to the People's Party and to its responsibility in the energy sector, and in this case in the nuclear sector, in some way, but the People's Party on 1 August was definitely shutting down a nuclear power plant. The Government of Spain. The truth is that some had been playing (of course, and that is a frustration) only with the perspective, with the security in addition to having all the security and the whole perspective that what the Spanish Government, the People's Party Government, was going to do was to do everything possible for the reopening of the nuclear power plant; to convince Endesa, Iberdrola and Nuclenor that it had to be opened at all costs. But the People's Party goes and shuts down the power plant forever. And it also begins its dismantling, because the necessary steps are taken in relation to the orders, with the rules that are there, with the decisions that will have to come together with the reports of the Nuclear Security Council and with the activity of Enresa, etc., and of the companies that will participate in this dismantling and final closure of the plant, culminating it. And that causes frustration. And we have to keep talking about a subject that is already in the pipeline. Because, well, you then that first topic of the non-law proposition has passed it quickly (pipi-pa), and then, well, well, let's talk about nuclear energy. Well, let's talk about nuclear energy, if that's all right! And there are also government plans in relation to the European Union, in relation to energy plans 2030-2050... Well there it is: commission of experts that is created, energy..., is there in progress. Well, well, there'll be channels and you can talk, and here you can talk, too. But no, no. Today the topic was "Well, let's make the argument again with the topic of nuclear energy...". But no, no. What you wanted to come to again is to take advantage of the subject of Garoña, as always, as an element of political ram, and also not to recognize the truth: that it is the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party that has closed Garoña, Mr Otero. Find out! Don't bore me. I can proclaim that the People's Party and the People's Party government have closed Garoña. I don't know, on the next initiative I have to repeat it, but, well, we'll keep talking about it. And we also have to thank you for the fundamental role of agents like you and your parliamentary group in closing Garoña, and now we will have to thank you for the role in controlling the dismantling of Garoña, no doubt. We will also look at it, because it will present to us at each session a parliamentary initiative that we will discuss with pleasure. I won't get bored, and I'll learn more every day about these issues. Transaction amendment, fine. The Basque Parliament celebrates the closure... and congratulates the Alavesa and Basque society in general. We can congratulate the Alavese society, the Basque society, the Castilian-Leonese society... but we must also congratulate the Government of Spain! It is necessary to congratulate those who have made the decision! I have seen here a decree or order of 1 August refusing to renew the authorization of exploitation and also giving the clauses and the keys to how to proceed. The Spanish Government should also be congratulated! And in addition – and this is even more difficult for them – Mr Sánchez Galán, who has been one of the fundamental assets in this final process, should be congratulated. Why not? You have to be thorough, don't you? When it comes to analysing and making statements, then we should be as thorough as possible, Mr Otero. Some issues have been left there, some things have been left there, of course. Let's congratulate everyone, everyone for closing Garoña. Let's congratulate everyone. However, the Basque Parliament in point 2 requires, without further delay, the administrative and technical procedure for the decommissioning of the plant. They have already begun: the administrative and technical procedure... and they have left one, the work. They've left him! I say again, amendments and parliamentary initiatives need to be better thought through. Administrative procedure, and work. Well, those have already begun, all of them. They've already started. The ERE has already been authorized, agreements have already been reached with the workers... Besides, there's nothing more to read... I know that for some of you it has to be very hard, but there is nothing more to read in the Diario de Burgos. I know, it's hard to read a Spanish newspaper, but you have to read the Diario de Burgos to realize that things have already begun, that they have already begun to work. Work has begun on the ATI, work has begun on relations with companies in relation to containers, in terms of the process of dismantling the nuclear power plant. I mean, that's what we're already working on. So it's also unnecessary for them to start without further delay. No, they've already started. Another thing is to continue, to move forward, to continue, but to start without further delay is already there. Point number 2 is also missing. In point 3, the Basque Parliament calls for security to be guaranteed... Well, it's guaranteed. Why? For the application of the rules and for the application of the laws; for the requirements and professionalism of the Nuclear Security Council, which will guarantee this dismantling process; for the professionalism and competence of Enresa; for the Nuclenor, Endesa and Iberdrola themselves, which also play their capacity and credibility in the promotion of energy. And also by the laws, because there is only to read the ministerial order and know what laws affect: on nuclear energy, on the creation of the Nuclear Security Council, on the electricity sector, on the legal regime of public administrations...; regulations on health protection, ionizing radiation... That is, a series of regulations, rules and laws that are there, that are going to apply, that are going to ensure this entire dismantling process. It is clear that, in that sense, number 3, guarantee... Well, it's guaranteed! And they're taking steps. Because the construction of the ATI, the guarantee in relation to the containers, well, it may be insufficient for you, but it is a situation in fact. That is to say, the situation is already being dealt with, Mr Otero. He's acting and there he is. In point 4, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to set up an interinstitutional committee. Well, the best will be the nuclear physicists, the nuclear engineers, the technicians, who in the Nuclear Security Council and in Enresa and in the nuclear power plant itself address that process. It's the one that gives me the most guarantees. Because an agricultural engineer from the Álava Diputación and the mayor of Valdegovía, plus Mr Otero, on an inter-institutional commission, don't give me any guarantees. I am assured by the Nuclear and Enresa Security Council, not by an inter-agency commission (and by Councilwoman Tapia too). Well, that interinstitutional committee doesn't give me any guarantees. I am guaranteed by the Nuclear and Enresa Security Council. Those give me guarantees. Fifthly, the Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to implement a plan that includes the Basque municipalities. We are going to urge the Basque Government or the Foral Diputación de Álava, if we are talking about Basque municipalities, to become involved too, and we are going to urge them too! To the Government of Spain well, okay, and in addition the Government of Spain and the Junta de Castilla y León are already taking steps. In that sense, I think we're where we have to be. But also place some duty on the Basque Government! Put it on, man! I think it's the least of it. And the sixth point, then, is done. It is the one that has further justified the approach I wanted to take, which I believe will be the subject of another debate, that of nuclear energy and nuclear power plants. We disagree, Madam President, and we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. I had a few points to make, because this has been a very good subject, and I also did not want to repeat myself in the arguments of the Members who have spoken before me; therefore, if Mr Barrio gives me the floor, I will reply directly to him. Man, I have to admit that you have made the need for virtue, and that in addition, even within your parliamentary dialectics, you have been tremendously skilled in trying to arrogate an achievement that, obviously, no matter how much you repeat it in this House, is not going to fit in. I admire that you've made the attempt, but let me tell you that you haven't made it. It has not succeeded, among other things, because there has been a long and focused debate here on this issue, and we all know the political position that each of the parliamentary groups has had on this issue. There's the session logs, there's the votes, there's the attitudes... And today we come here, after all, to reiterate many of us in what we have been defending for many years. I, whom Mr Galán, would call you tonight to thank you, because you have probably made a much more vehemently defense than he himself could make of Iberdrola's work. So, what do you want me to say to him? If the Garoña nuclear power plant is closed, let me tell you that it is not thanks to the People's Party. No, Mrs. López de Ocariz. No, Mrs. López de Ocariz. It is thanks, first of all, to the social pressure that the citizens of this country have made to close. And, Mr Becerra, also under the pressure that from the different parliamentary groups, from the different junta groups and from the different municipal groups has been carried out for Garoña to close. And I want to reassert here the role of politics, because the role of politics in this issue has also been very important. Nor would it be fair to fall into the demagogic argument of putting all the eggs or all the merits in the citizens' basket, when there have been politicians here who have been giving their faces and working hard to make what today, or tomorrow, is going to be a reality. I therefore reassert the role of the citizens, and I reassert the role of politics and of the politicians and politicians who have been defending the closure of Garoña. Don't tell me that if it's going to close, it's thanks to you, among other things, because the one who first put an expiration date on that nuclear power plant was a socialist government. That's for starters. Secondly, because if it had been for you, that nuclear power plant would be reopened, and if it has not reopened, it is not because of you. It has been thanks to the fact that the companies that own this nuclear power plant have not wanted to make the investments they had to make. If you in this matter have only had a vision or an analysis of results that was being sung to you by the owner companies of Garoña! Don't come to this triumph now, because, besides being false, it's very demagogic. If you have been the first to defend nuclear energy in this House, in the Congress of Deputies, in the European Parliament, to the end! If they had no choice but to close Garoña, first because of social pressure, second because of political pressure, and third because the exploitative companies had told them that they were not going to invest any more hard! What are you telling us? What are you telling us? What I would ask you now is for your government, which is so proud of – and I think it is absolutely legitimate, although, as you will understand, I do not share it – to take the bull by the horns and face the two main challenges we have on this issue. Lehenengoa, itxiera materializatu, behar de un moduan eta segurtas un osoz. Eta bigarrena, escualde horri alteratiba bat eman, alteratiba sozial eta alteratiba ekonomiko bat. Eta hirugarrena, eredu nergetiko berri batri aurre egin, randu eta martxan jarri. These are the three main challenges we have right now, and we, from the Socialist Group, are going to support any initiative that goes in that direction. And it does give me confidence that an interinstitutional committee is set up to analyse, monitor and monitor the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant. It does give me security, Mr. Barrio. I'm telling you honestly. And I think it's necessary, of course it is. Among other things, because I do not trust your Government. Among other things, because I do not trust your Government. I therefore believe that we are facing three very important challenges. The first, complete the closure with guarantees and with absolute security. The second, give an alternative and begin to draft a plan for the reactivation of this region (social reactivation, economic reactivation, search for alternatives...). Thirdly, of course, a new energy model should be put in place. Mr. Otero said that, and I totally agree with him. I think we owe it to future generations. I think the future is there. I do not think it makes any sense to prolong the lives of nuclear power stations, this country or anywhere in the world. I am not going to say that it was a mistake; probably at that time, when that energy model was initiated or launched, it would probably be a breakthrough. To this day it's an absolute delay. I therefore believe that in these three challenges we have a great deal of work to do. I would ask your Government to take up the task now. Less flowers, more work. Among other things, because we owe it to all the citizens who have been fighting for the closure of Garoña and to all the citizens who want to live in security and with a much more sustainable energy model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The closing of the nuclear Plant in Garoña seems to have ended, but the time has come to undo the central. So it's important for us to create a commission between organizations that can control the entire process of undoing. We are again on the subject of Garoña, and although it seems to be a repetitive subject, I welcome the initiative, Mr Otero, because I think we need to talk about the present and the future. And the present and the future are called the dismantling of Garoña. They are not, of course, called Garoña's closure. I'm not going in, as you've come in, who's locked up, who's not locked up... I am clear about that, and I obviously believe that it was not the PP government, but as I am so clear I am not going to enter into a discussion. Because I think we need to talk, obeying the GNP, about dismantling, and dismantling is once it's closed and it's a process of the future. We agree on all the points that we have signed, but I would highlight one very important one for me, which is number 4, which is the one that I will then try to convince Mr Barrio that we also vote for, if we vote for points this GNP. I believe that there is a need for a committee on three important points. The first, because of the danger of dismantling. We are talking about a dismantling that can end in the year 2033; a dismantling that will be very expensive, that will handle tons of radioactive waste, and that is not like dismantling a steel industry or a chemical industry. It is a much more dangerous thing, especially for those living around the central Garoña. Secondly, the information opacity that has always accompanied the nuclear issue in general, and the Garoña issue in particular, is also very important – and I believe that no one has yet said so in this rostrum. Both the private companies owned by Garoña and the Nuclear Security Council or Enresa have always misinformed and late about any incident they had related to Garoña. They've never told the truth to the first one. More than communication cabinets, they were disinformation cabinets, to try to plug any kind of crack in the nuclear vessel, instead of recognizing the incidents that have occurred. And that is why, on this point, I think it is very important that there is a committee. Perhaps a committee which does not give, as you said, Mr Barrio, guarantees, but which does give information, in particular to the inhabitants of the environment of the Garoña nuclear power plant. And thirdly for a pure right to information. We have to ask this commission simply because I believe that citizens (more than 300,000, including Gasteiz) who live in an area of twenty or thirty kilometers around Garoña have to know how the process is going, how it is being done, what dangers it has... And I think that also comes up against the second point, and that is that until now there has never been a serious information policy that talks about Garoña and talks about the nuclear issue. Let's get to the first point. The first point is the danger of dismantling. There may be people who think it's tossing the four walls and throwing the reactor and that's it, and those people would have to be told that the play can last more than fifteen years, that it will end in 2033, and that it will cost 300 million euros. And obviously you must also tell him that so far Vandellós' example is not good, and Zorita's example has already been delayed for four years, because it had to have finished dismantling last year and it seems that it will end at the end of the 19th. We are talking about very serious and very strong amounts for people living in nuclear power plant environments. We talked about that in Zorita there was something like 18,000 tons of radioactive material; we talked about that in Vandellós there were 2,000 tons of radioactive material, and already focusing on Garoña we have to say, according to the sources, that there are 311 tons of uranium inside the plant, and that there are 7,200 tons of radioactive waste material. The manipulation of all this is very important. I want to insist that there is a difference. I mean, I understand that everyone in Euskadi has a right and has to have information about what's going on with Garoña, but especially those 300,000 people for whom, although the great danger has been annihilated by the closure of the plant, there may still be dangers with this manipulation of radioactive elements. We have a guarantee, and there I agree with Mr Barrio, and it is that the companies themselves will not be dismantled, but that it will be a public company, Enresa, who will take over power from the plant during these ten or fifteen years, and that will take care of this dismantlement. This is a guarantee. But then we go back to the second point, and the second point is the informative opacity, which is what I used to say. They've never told us what was going on in Garoña, and if they've informed us it's been a week later, and if they've informed us it's been trying to lower the degree of danger of any kind of incident. And that's why I don't trust you. That is why I do not trust either Enresa or the Nuclear Security Council, or I do not trust Iberdrola or Endesa, in this respect, in the information they have given of any possible nuclear accidents that may have occurred. And, as I do not trust, I believe it is essential that the Basque Government and the Álava Diputation, municipalities and civil society have a presence in this dismantling. You said, Mr. Barrio, you didn't give him any guarantees. I'm not talking about that commission giving guarantees. This commission, of course, does not have to be made up of nuclear physicists, but it does have to provide information. That committee has to do, to the rest of the people of Alavesa and Basque, to tell them step by step how dismantling is going and to report, which is what has never been done so far. When we entered the House this morning, I told you, and I keep saying, that I would like you to vote yes to the fourth point, that of the committee. It should be remembered that when Javier Maroto was still sitting among you, three or two years ago, there was a vote in which we voted in favour of the closure of Garoña seventy-four parliamentarians of seventy-five (Mr. Maneiro always failed us). So I think it is important that all Members of Parliament today vote on this point. I am not talking to you about the rest of the points, which some are obvious and some of you obviously cannot sign, but I believe that the fourth point, which refers to the committee, is interesting, because it is defending the rights of citizens living near Garoña. But not the rights with technical guarantees, that for that is already Enresa, but simply the information: that there is a fluid information and that, if one day happens some kind of incident, we will find out on the same day and we will not find out in several days. I believe it is essential that there be a committee, and that there be an Alavesa and Basque institutional presence in this matter. Because, if not, I think we would be, as in the last days of Garoña, drinking the information of the company or of the Nuclear Security Council, and we all know that, so far, there has never been any fluid information, in this case Garoña. I would encourage you to vote yes to this fourth point, because, I insist, with this fourth point we do not want to obtain guarantees: we want there to be no information opacity, and we want the people living around Garoña to know monthly or quarterly how the dismantling work is going, and to know, of course, that nothing is going to happen. You also told me at the beginning of the morning that this dismantling is going to be exemplary, but the fact that this dismantling is exemplary (I hope it is) is completely compatible with a commission. I mean, Enresa may be dismantling Garoña wonderfully well, but that doesn't stop for a committee to talk to Enresa and for that committee to report how well the dismantling process is going. That is to say, the fact that we have the guarantee of Enresa is not incompatible with the fact that there is a commission of Albanian and Basque representatives to be informed day by day of the dangers or the work of that dismantling commission.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, from there, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u40	Well, seeing the broad agreement in the House on this subject I did not intend to take the floor, but the truth is that after your speech, Barrio, I have no choice but to tell you a couple of things. I mean, if it wasn't so serious and so serious everything about nuclear energy and the problems on the table, both in Garoña and the rest of the nuclear park, then it would make me so graceful, because it seems to me that your intervention... I mean, what I'm gonna do is congratulate him. Look, I am not going to congratulate the Government of Spain, I am not going to congratulate Mr Galán, but I am going to congratulate him, because you are able, on a matter as serious and as strong as this, to come and make the subject of Garoña, the dismantling and the request of the interinstitutional commission look like a joke of Chiquito de la Calzada. Then, in that sense, it seems to me that it is like congratulating you on coming here, not addressing any of the issues that are put on your table, and repeating as a parrot (because you have repeated it up to twelve times, that I have told you) that the Garoña nuclear power plant has closed it down by the Spanish Government. And what I would ask you to do is that in the face of these kinds of initiatives, if you are going to take the floor – because, if you are not, abstain and do not take the floor, but if you are going to take the floor – make a minimum effort to try to answer the questions that arise, because it does not seem serious to me, it seems quite irresponsible to me that attitude. And not only with regard to today's issue, but it seems to me irresponsible that they do not have the slightest communication capacity within their own party, since yesterday at the General Councils of Álava their party voted, on a twin initiative to this one, voted yes to the inter-institutional commission that you have tried to ridicule, saying that we are going to go to the Mayor of Valdegovía..., I do not know if you have spoken about Naranjito, but you have only failed to say that you were going to go to Naranjito, and Mr Otero, trying to ridicule his own party comrades of General Councils of Álava, who yesterday voted in favour of the creation of the inter-institutional commission. So I don't think I have much more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u42	Well, I'm going out here to the gallery so I can see their faces. Because I also did not intend to intervene, but I am glad that I started our speech, or my speech, calling for political parties not to put any medals on this issue. And I repeat myself in that. There is nothing worse than the converts on this subject. And the converts are the parties that twenty, thirty, forty, ten, five years ago, continued to defend nuclear energy, continued to defend the extension of nuclear power plants, Mr Andueza, and now, when all of the Alavesa society congratulates itself, they go to the picture, they go to the banner, and they want to go out on it. And I think it's good that you want to get out – as you say, it's lawful that you want to get out – but let's have the humility to admit that those forty years ago said that nuclear energy was bad, it was dangerous, it was expensive, they were the four ecologists cognac who were on the banner. No one in this House was possibly on that banner with them. So, let's not get into that. Mr Barrio, I also recognize the merit of trying to draw the bull, but do not say that the inter-institutional commission is unnecessary because it is the Nuclear Security Council. You have discredited the Nuclear Security Council, turned it into an agency that has no credibility at present, neither at state level nor at European level. A body that you have forced to change the rules that you yourselves have adopted to benefit from, to try to get Garoña reopened in a totally illegal way, even with particular votes of Nuclear Security Council advisors, makes that same council not right now have the credibility it should have to oversee dismantling. I therefore reaffirm that this nuclear power station has been shut down by the citizens, it has been closed down by the environmental groups. I am glad that today we recognize its merit, but let us not live up to it, because the political parties, even mine, which did not exist at the time, have not lived up to what they demanded of us. We defended one thing in the chambers, but in the governments where we ruled we made totally opposite decisions. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u44	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Otero, serious and serious, I do not think it is how I defend the attitude of my group and my party in relation to the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant. Serious and serious are many things that you are part of. First, the attitude sickens with the Government of Spain, with the Government of the People's Party. That is, you can accuse everything; since you left, you have also said three or four times that the People's Party is responsible, that the People's Party, that the People's Party... I then go down to the rostrum, defend myself and tell you things as they have been, and you today feel offended and it seems that I have not answered you as I should answer. I did the defense I had to do. In case you haven't heard, the Government of Spain, which is part of the People's Party, has shut down the Garoña nuclear power plant. But, anyway, serious and serious is that you are part of a party that has fought against nuclear energy. I now remember engineer Ryan, from the Lemoniz nuclear power plant, killed by ETA, and neither you nor your party have yet condemned his murder. Serious and serious. Look, Mr Andueza, Garoña is closed by social pressure, Garoña is closed by political pressure, and Garoña is closed because the PSOE and because Zapatero insisted on leaving it open for a while. And, of course, how he tried to keep it open, because it's closed. Because he tried to keep it open. So in that sense... But everyone knows that and we've talked about it here many times. I don't know, I'll have intervened in this House about Garoña, because, I don't know, twenty times? And we have indeed been familiar with the process in relation to their situations, their vicissitudes, and in relation to what has happened. So in that sense I think there is to be a little more humble. Indeed, we are going to share the merits, or we are going to talk objectively. And, it's true, and I agree, too, we're going to talk about the future and we're going to see what steps we're taking. And we can indeed discuss issues such as the follow-up committee and issues like that, and ask the government for assurances. Well, yes. And the Nuclear Security Council, too. Those issues. But let's see why Garoña is closed and why Garoña is open. Why was it open? Because Spain's governments like Zapatero kept it open and extended their energy life, when they could have closed it. And that's what happened. I mean, we don't have to dramatize that much with that question either, and we're going to recognize it and that's it. Mr Ramírez-Escudero talks to me about the follow-up committee for the reports and for transparency and for... But let's see, but if all the groups in this House have deputies in the Congress of Deputies, requests for information, appearances (what happens here), appearances of ministers, appearances of directors general, appearances of the president of the CSN, of the president of Enresa, to say, to explain at every moment, so that they are transparent, that they are, because there is only to read the websites and see the reports that are published at every step that is given, where the information is! There is no need for a follow-up committee with a mayor, a deputy general, a counsellor and a number of technicians, who are also not experts in this area. You don't have to! Well, if you think you believe you believe, well, that's it, another channel more information. Well. But the information channel is available to all of us and all of our groups in the Congress of Deputies with parliamentary initiatives before the Government, before the Nuclear Security Council, Mr Becerra, and before Enresa, and asking for information on every step taken. And I have no doubt that it will happen, because the Government has an obligation. It is also that we are making much progress in transparency in all Governments and in all institutions, and in the Nuclear Security Council and in Enresa as well, because we are viewing, reading their websites and seeing their reports. In relation to this case and this subject of Garoña and the last vicissitudes we have seen it very clearly. And, Mr. Becerra, he was talking about the lack of credibility of the Nuclear Security Council. No, no. You don't believe that either. All you have to do is see what pictures you have today, what staff you have, what people you work there, what technical commissions you have, so that you... Well, you were talking about the council and some political decisions, some particular votes, but look inside, into the guts of the council, so that you see the solvency and capacity you have and the international contrast that you have a council like that. And the initiative... So we are going to abstain from the initiative. We are going to abstain because it is certainly insufficient, in addition to the fact that, I say again, the decisions of those who have shut down the nuclear power plant should also be valued. Let's talk about society, let's talk about pressure, let's talk about politicians, about parties... We are also going to talk about the Government of Spain! It is that the ministerial order is signed by the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism, and justifies it, and it also implements the dismantling protocol in relation to the rules that affect it. I mean, that's what we're gonna recognize. We will recognize it, and we will appreciate that steps have already been taken as well. We will appreciate that steps have been taken, because steps have also been taken in the field of work at the nuclear power plant in relation to workers and their future. Let's appreciate it! And we are going to say that steps are also being taken on monitoring and information issues, and it is also in our hands to have information on the future of the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. In the Congress of Deputies, the Government is obliged to respond and will respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u46	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Look, Mr. Becerra, I'm going to agree with you that I don't trust converts either. I've never trusted converts, especially those converts who came to politics... [[Berber]] , especially of those converts who came to politics to change it, and the first ones of change allowed a right-wing government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u47	Silence... Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u48	... that same right-wing government that wanted to extend Garoña, would stay ruling. So, I don't trust you either. But I'll tell you one thing. Look, on this issue in the Socialist Party very few conversions. I'm going to tell you why: because if you made history and threw a hemerotheque you would realize that the first moratorium that was signed with an expiry date was signed by a socialist government presided over by Felipe González. That first thing, that first thing. Therefore, that will have to be acknowledged to me. And you will have to recognize that in all parliamentary debates, both in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, in this House or in the general meetings, the Socialist Party has always maintained the same argument, the same line of argument and the same political position. And yes, the government of Zapatero extended Garoña, but with an expiry date, without turning back, in 2013. Recognise, Mr. Barrio, that no matter how much people repeat the same things, they will believe it! No way! May his half-truths no longer hang! That in this matter the thing is meridianly clear, no matter how much you want to say it! Yes, there have been particular votes in the Nuclear Security Council against the extension of Garoña, but it happens that all those particular votes were of people who were linked to the Socialist Party. Say it, Mr. Becerra. Say, do not have a complex, that we have known to be behind the banner and in institutions doing politics. I hope that one day you will learn once and for all that in this House you can register initiatives that can greatly improve the lives of citizens, and that, in addition to being behind a banner, you can come here to do politics to improve the lives of those citizens. I hope you can learn some day. At the moment, they are new arrivals, although it seems that the sun rises every day thanks to you. Anyway, we'll have to thank him too, listen! But let me say one thing: I have a very clear conscience that mine were always, from the beginning, the closure not only of Garoña, but of all the nuclear power plants, which others cannot say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. And to finish up the Eubertians, Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mesedity, isiltasuna. Isiltasuna... RAMÍREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: Well, the four parliamentarians who preceded me in the use of the word seemed, with forgiveness, to tell the battles of the post-war and war to their grandchildren, and evidently bore them. I want to remind everyone who has intervened that Garoña has already closed, which is history. I mean, Garoña's already closed. That we want to keep talking about who closed it? To me, Mr. Barrio, you're never going to convince me of your theory, and I'm not going to try to convince you of mine either, because I know they're absolutely incompatible. So, let's leave the issue of who, how, when, where and why Garoña closed, and let's talk about dismantling, which is what brought us to this House today. Mr. Barrio, you were saying that we suspected, that we had no faith in the higher council. We have faith, I have faith in the higher council, I have faith in Enresa, I have faith – of course – in the technical possibilities of Iberdrola. But what I have no faith in is the information policy and transparency of these bodies. You say you've always been informed. I can tell you that no, that there has always been a desire to postpone the information, a desire to conceal the information, provided that that information was obviously against Nuclenor or the superior council. I only ask that committee, which I believe is necessary, and I continue to invite you to vote on number 4, even if you do not vote on the rest. I only ask you not for technical guarantees, because obviously neither Mr Otero nor the Mayor of Valdegovía are going to be in that committee, but you could be too, why not. There could be someone from this Parliament in that committee. It is not by technical guarantees, of which we obviously do not know much; it is by purely informational guarantees that the 300,000 Alaves we live around the Garoña nuclear power plant have information, apart from what you have said about Parliament and others, about Congress, that we have reliable monthly or bimonthly information on how dismantling works are going. I am with you in that it may be an example of dismantling, but it would be good if, if dismantling is good or is bad, we knew. I mean, if it's good, to celebrate it, and if it's bad, to try to exercise some kind of control. You have given no logical reason to vote other than for that committee of inquiry. Not at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the half-direction signed by the Podemos and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 62; the opponents are 0; white, 0,0; abstain, 9
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u51	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The proposal as the Parlamentarian Parlamentarian Group made to prolong the track of the airport in the sandrabi and to ensure the efficiency of that airport. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Sémper, representative of Euscalo Popular, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u52	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, everyone. Under this rostrum to call for the support of this House for an initiative that we consider fundamental for the economic and social development of the historic territory of Gipuzkoa, to ensure the present and future viability of a fundamental infrastructure, as I say to you, for Gipuzkoa, but also for the economic and social development of the whole of Euskadi. I will not dwell on too many technical details, because on numerous occasions we have discussed this aspect in this House, in plenary, but also in committee. We have been discussing the characteristics and functionality of Donostia airport in Hondarribia for years, and therefore we all know also the extremes on which we are discussing or are going to proceed to discuss this matter, as well as that the conditions and technical characteristics can probably be resolved in very little time and in very few sentences. As you know, the avatars that have suffered at San Sebastián Airport, at Donostia-San Sebastián Airport in Hondarribia, have certainly been complicated since 2001. The origin that has brought us here is that the international safety regulations impose certain characteristics to operate, so that certain aircraft can operate at airports. In particular, the airport of Hondarribia since 2001 has been the subject of a debate on the size of its runway, under a master plan which proposed the extension of the runway to ensure that it is operational and that it complies with the safety standards, which raised a controversy in the historical territory of Gipuzkoa and also in the whole of Euskadi; a controversy which led to numerous administrations and institutions manifesting themselves against the master plan, or more specifically the plans for the extension of the runway envisaged in that master plan. Since 2001, many things have happened, there have been many debates, we have spoken, and what seemed to be peaceful, in the sense that a majority of political forces shared the suitability of an extension of the track (not the one contemplated in the 2001 master plan, but a more contained and more controlled enlargement in its dimension; that was apparently a political pronouncement that we all shared), it turns out that over time it has been diluting and changing positions. I, unlike Mr. Andueza, do not have a special animate for converts. What matters is what they become, whether to worse or better, and in this case the conversion of some has been to worse. Worse, because turning your back on this infrastructure is to condemn it to an agonistic death, to a slow death, probably to a sweet agony, or not, but what is true is that if we do not take steps to guarantee that operation we can get out of the way, we can lose a fundamental infrastructure and a very important infrastructure for our companies, for our entrepreneurs and for our citizens, for our economy in the end, and therefore for our well-being and for our progress. And, of course, no one is talking about building in 2017 an invasive infrastructure in the territory, an infrastructure that requires disproportionate investment, but what we are talking about is that we already have an infrastructure. We have an infrastructure that is successful, that has provoked and allowed Gipuzkoa to connect with the rest of Spain in a very agile and very effective way; that has allowed the movement – as I told you before – of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and has also allowed our citizens to move with more options, and has also allowed others to come to our territory. Therefore, it is a useful infrastructure, and in this I think we can all agree. But the surprise is that, as a result of this international security regulation, the track had to be cut, a hundred and fifty meters per head, which subsequently caused the Ministry of Development to intervene, through a formula that some have described as a patch. I do not think it is such, but it is a formula that solves, that comes out to the step of the operational risk of the runway and the airport through the slot, the famous slot, that has already been awarded its work and that probably ends, according to the plans established by the Ministry of Development itself and by the award of the contract, this same year. But this slotting work does not guarantee that the Airbus 319, which is essentially the aircraft whose operation is guaranteed by the extension of the runway, can continue to operate now and in the future. Therefore, if we do not allow Airbus 319 to continue operating at the airport, we will also continue to provoke and maintain a monopoly that currently exercises a company. Monopoly that exercises a company that also imposes – because these are the things of the monopoly, and when free competition is not guaranteed – prices of the truly deorbited airline tickets, like anyone who has the opportunity or tries to fly from the airport of Hondarribia knows. In other words, it's almost more expensive to fly to Madrid than to New York on many occasions, and this is an objective fact: you can buy a ticket to New York, and it's cheaper than flying to Madrid. And this is not reasonable, and it doesn't seem reasonable. And the measure to end this situation... because we have here operations, security, economic and social development, but also the possibility of allowing other companies to operate at that airport. The expansion of the track that arises, and that until recently we shared at least the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party (until recently I say, that in 2009 we agreed the three political formations in the suitability of expanding it; the three political formations in 2009 we shared the suitability of expanding the track), guarantees the operationality, guarantees the jobs... Look, this is not a minor issue: it guarantees jobs. You know that at the moment, if Airbus 319 operates, safety regulations also impose certain safety regulations, and require twenty firefighters, for example. If the Airbus 319 does not operate, then with eight firefighters it would be enough, because the level of safety requirement is lowered. Amen, of course, of indirect employment and of the activity which is complementary to the airport. It improves security, this is an obvious fact, and it also does not impose any added affection to what already exists for the neighbors. With this the extension of the track – which we are talking about an extension of one hundred and fifty meters in each head, or of fifty and one hundred fifty in each head of track – has only benefits. The Ministry of Development, which is responsible and has the competence to carry out this work, has said something which also seems reasonable. And the Ministry of Development has said: "Hey, we want to make the extension of the track, but this extension of the track we will address it if there is interinstitutional agreement in Euskadi; if the Basque Government, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation and the municipalities of the area agree". And what we are proposing today is that we ask the Basque Government to lead between the Basque institutions the okey, the support for the extension of the track, and that of that agreement, the result of the leadership of the Basque Government – unless it leads this – the result of that agreement, the Ministry of Development proceed to carry out the extension of the track. You have amended, I think there is an agreed compromise amendment between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and Podemos (and I do not know if Bildu has been added), but let me also remind you, and I have already told you in my speech that your amendment lacks – let me tell you this – the basis. It is unfounded because the aspects that you raise... Well, job maintenance can be talked about very happily, but job maintenance is only guaranteed by ensuring the viability of the airport, which would allow the extension of the runway to go in that direction. The safety of travellers and residents of the area is an obvious increase when the safety conditions resulting from the extension of the runway are effective. And the present and future operation to which you appeal is only guaranteed by the extension of the track. And what I said to them before also: it does not affect existing dwellings, as in the past he was in charge of remembering some councillor in this House. But, look, especially I have been drawn to the attention that the Socialist Party has amended in this regard, because on 27 September of this same year, that is, two days ago, in the Congress of Deputies there was an agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party saying the following, an agreement in the Committee on Development, and saying that it urged the Ministry of Development and Aena to continue the work of revising the master plan of the airport of San Sebastián, in which all possible alternatives, including enlargement, are analysed. Including enlargement. I have the feeling that, beyond other considerations, what does not exist is the will to ensure that San Sebastian Airport has a future. I mean, I don't think you want to close it, but I think you don't care if it closes. And I have a feeling that you don't mind it closing, first, because it's an airport that's in Gipuzkoa, and, well, it's not Bizkaia and it's not Bilbao, so it's not that important. And they don't care that it closes because, in their worldview – and there the Basque Nationalist Party has managed to drag very skillfully to the Socialist Party – the airport that must serve the Gipuzcoans is that of Biarritz. And we are radically against it. It would seem to us a missed opportunity to waste the fact of having already an infrastructure of these characteristics in Gipuzkoa. We believe that the world has become a competitive place, where having airport infrastructure is very important and fundamental, where we believe that the flow and giving citizens a chance to move more freely and with more opportunities is very positive. We believe that giving our companies the opportunity, too, to have more channels of communication and transport is a good thing. We believe that to the progress that an airport allows, and to the possibilities of mobility and economic progress – sorry to repeat myself – we cannot give up on this. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider your position. And I have made you an offer before: I have asked you at least in your compromise amendment to introduce the possibility, even if in a remote way, of enlargement as something feasible. Because the extension of the runway is, as I say to you, what guarantees the viability of the airport, not only now, but also in the future. The extension of the track is the one that guarantees the jobs of the airport (and this is very important: there are many families that depend on the airport of San Sebastián in Hondarribia, many families, many families), and also guarantees that our territory is an attractive place for investors, for companies, and also for those who want to visit and meet us. Environmental conditions are preserved; it is ensured that they do not exist through relevant environmental impact studies. Neighbors are not affected; they already have a lead. It does not affect housing; it affects a village in the Mendelu area of Amute, it affects an area in which there is absolutely no activity or even economic activity at the moment. I mean, the extension of the track is a good business for Gipuzkoa and for Euskadi, it's a good business for the workers, it's a good business for our company, and it's a good business for Gipuzkoa. I ask you to at least reconsider your amendment here, and to introduce, because we are in time, the possibility of extending the track as a feasible hypothesis to take into account for the future. If you don't want to ask the Basque government to lead something in this country, don't. If you do not want to ask the Basque Government to lead an interinstitutional agreement in defence of one of our fundamental infrastructures, do not do so. But introduce in your amendment at least the possibility that the airport runway can be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u54	Yes, good morning. I wanted to take this opportunity to convey the solidarity of our group with the Vice-President of the Valencian Generalitat, who has suffered tonight a siege of an extreme right-wing group in her own home, which seems to us to be absolutely serious and condemnable. And, already entering into the question brought to us today by the People's Party, I have already announced that we do not agree with the initiative brought by Mr Semper, in which what is asked fundamentally, or what is sought, is precisely the extension of the runway at the airport of Hondarribia, at the airport of Donostia-San Sebastián, as he has indeed explained. Our position is clearly opposed to the extension of the runway at this airport. It is a position that we had written in our electoral program – therefore, there was no question of how we had to stand before this initiative – and it is also a position, today that we were talking here about converts and maintaining positions... I also believe that sometimes, when positions change, it doesn't necessarily have to be bad (there may be evolutions, there may be a change of opinion about things), but it is true that in particular my organization, Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, has always remained opposed to the expansion of this airport, and we believe that nothing has changed in the fundamentals of our arguments and arguments with the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, since they were included in our electoral program, so that we change our opinion. And, therefore, we are going to oppose this initiative, we will vote against it. We have tabled an amendment, and we have reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. An agreement that we believe preserves this position that we defend, contrary to the extension of the runway at the airport of Hondarribia. The debate on the extension of the airport is true that it took special shape as a result of our obligation to comply with European safety regulations. Because that airport, which has very special features, did not meet them. And our organization for many years, for a decade, has been calling for those necessary security measures to be put in place. For a long time, for too long, that debate was extended. Even on recent occasions political leaders, also from the Basque Nationalist Party, have shown an irresponsible attitude in my opinion, to express that we should try to delay that as much as possible or even not to apply it, when we are talking about security measures. Not only because they are imposed by European legislation, but because they are security measures that must be implemented, because, if not, people's lives are at risk. Finally, these security measures are actually being carried out this year. And we think that the non-extension of the track does not have the consequences that Mr Semper has for us. We think that if things are done right the viability of the airport of Hondarribia is perfectly executable. And we – and I say this clearly – are neither by closure nor by letting those facilities die. We want and believe that it is good that the airport continues to exist. But our opposition to the extension of the track has an argument, which I am not going to prolong because it is, I think, well known, and which is fundamentally based on affections. You deny these affections; we affirm that these affections exist and have some gravity. It has conditions in the urban environment: the airport of Hondarribia is within the territory of Hondarribia, but it is between Hondarribia and Irun, in the middle of a large population, or two large populations, together of more than 100,000 inhabitants, which, together with Hendaya, is an urban core. And the airport's in the middle. And it is also in the environment of a specially protected space, which you know perfectly well. And this enlargement, even if it is smaller than that which was originally proposed, seriously affects that space, which is a specially protected space, which is a passage of migratory birds, which would be seriously affected by the expansion of the airport. And you made reference to environmental impact reports. I don't know which ones, but even Aena herself has acknowledged that it would be difficult to get positive environmental impact reports. I therefore believe that this is important and we must bear this in mind, because even if we all agreed to expand it would not be so simple. But I say, we are opposed to this enlargement because it is going to have negative impacts that we cannot accept in any way, and because we also believe that there is a possible alternative, which is not only to improve the airport of Hondarribia, but to improve all the airport infrastructures of Euskadi, to coordinate them – and in this sense we have had an impact on the transaction in which we have reached an agreement – to coordinate them and to make our complementary airports. We have three airports in the Autonomous Community, in an environment of not too many kilometers, with Biarritz airport really close to San Sebastián airport and Pamplona airport also in a short distance. Therefore, we think that by managing this well we can have a perfectly viable airport in Hondarribia-San Sebastián and that it also does not put at risk the jobs to which you refer. And it powerfully draws my attention to the fact that you also stand here today as a defender of the workers and in addition to this particular sector, when you have not had any modesty in making privatizations in this sector, which have also meant job losses. That is true, they have privatized and outsourced the part of this sector that could and would benefit, and they have kept in the public sector the part that could not benefit: let that be eaten by the State. Good. In addition, it seems to us that the position of the municipalities must also be taken into account, and in this regard both the municipalities and different institutions seem to be also opposed to enlargement. And, therefore, it seems to us that there are not enough arguments for this Parliament to say that this enlargement is necessary, not even for us to leave open that remote door to which you referred and in which my group would certainly not agree, and would not enter into any compromise, either with the Basque Nationalist Party and with the Socialist Party, if we understood that some door was left open. We are clear: we are opposed to extending the airport runway for the reasons I have given it. What we do believe is that we have to plan, and in that transaction that we have arrived at we also ask for competences. We believe that this is good for us to plan the airport activity in Euskadi effectively. We, as I said, have maintained a consistent position in time, for more than a decade. I, who am from Irun, have been hearing this question for a long time, and we have always held the same position. I am glad, and I wanted to put it this way, that it is clear from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party that they have a clear and unanimous position in their organisations, contrary to the expansion of the airport. Because it is true that there have been conflicting views in time, and many recent ones, of members of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. Very recently, Denis Itxaso was a supporter; instead, Marisol Garmendia (the two members of the same government team and the same party) seemed to be not. Mr Markel Olano has also been a supporter on some occasion, and Mr Eneko Goia has recently said no. And I understand that the Socialist Party's position today is contrary to this extension of the track (if not, I understand that they would not have signed that transaction), but I am concerned to hear Odón Elorza, who stands in favour of this extension of the track. And in the past Mr Arriola has also expressed his support for this. I'd like that to be made clear to me, and I'm not saying that to put your contradictions in front of you or that you've had different opinions, because, as I say... No, no, no, Mr Andueza, I honestly say this to you: I am not doing this as a reproach, I am saying this so that today in this House it is clear that there is a majority, in which only the People's Party is missing, that we show our rejection of the extension of the airport runway, and that is the position of the parties. Just make it clear. I am not using it as a bold weapon or as a reproach; simply to make it clear to us all, and to society, that the majority position in Euskadi is not to extend that clue, for the different reasons that each of the groups will give. The compromise that I believe will be adopted is not, of course, the initiative that we would have liked, nor does it use the language that we would have liked and that we believe it would have been clearer, and it does not include any of the things that I proposed also in relation to coordination at European level, which I think is important. It's okay. But I do think it is necessary to make it clear – and that is what I would like to make it clear – that we are opposed to the extension of that airport runway, because it is in a very special place and has serious conditions, both in the urban environment and in the existing ecological environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u56	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I would be grateful if, to the extent possible, both sides would avoid interpreting or putting into the mouth of the socialists what we say or what we stop saying. I would ask you, please, because, among other things, it seems to me a lack of respect. And if I am here today to speak on this issue, it is for two reasons: firstly, because I am the spokesman for the branch, and secondly, because I am the secretary general of the Socialists of Gipuzco. So stay with what I tell you, which is what's going to be worth, which is going to be worth. [[Berber]] That said, and hoping it didn't sound arrogant. [[Berber]] (what a little sense of humor they have, man!I'll tell you one thing. They do not intend to position us on either side, because there are medium terms. And allow me to be cautious in this speech, because I think there is some prudence in this matter. Today I believe that the People's Party is becoming a tremendous valiant government, but I am surprised that Mr Semper has come out here today to defend with such vehemence an enlargement which, however, when only fifteen days ago they asked the Minister Íñigo de la Serna for such an enlargement, it was precisely prudent. It did not say anything, it did not want to say anything about enlargement, and I thought it was right and I also share it. Why? Because, as you all know – and you have said it, Mr Semper – we will soon have the opportunity to check whether the slotting works at the Hondarribia airport give the corresponding result and whether the operation of that airport can have continuity thanks to those works. Let me therefore, until I know the outcome of those works, the effectiveness of those works, of those improvements, do not pronounce me on other issues. I am not going to venture to say that the only way out for the future of that airport is enlargement, when it may not be necessary! If we see that the slotting works do not give their result, then we will have to analyze what other alternatives there are, we will not close any doors, but we prefer to be prudent. Among other things, because to accomplish that work that you have put here on the table and for which you ask for the support of this House, which we will talk about later, we need environmental reports that will probably have a result. I am not going to venture to say what those reports might or might not say, because I am not an environmental technician. You've made sure that there wouldn't be any problem at all. I admire that you have much more environmental expertise than mine. I'd rather be careful. I'm telling you, I'd rather be careful. In any case, I do not want anyone to doubt that the Socialists of Gipuzcoans, the Basque Socialists, do not defend the operation of that airport by layer and sword as a strategic infrastructure for our territory, but, of course, we are very clear that the operation, the future of that airport, must be mainly guaranteed by three issues: the first, of course, the safety of travellers and the neighbours of the area; the maintenance of current jobs and also in optimal conditions; and, third, the preservation of the environment and respect for urban planning in the cities concerned. I think it's a question of minimums, it's the least you can ask for. Therefore, we want operativity, we will bet on that operativity, but, of course, these three premises are three premises that have to be respected yes or yes. I'll tell you something else, too. We are talking about an investment that I believe is important, but we cannot forget that there are other investments within that infrastructure that can be undertaken at present. Because it's curious that we're talking about the operation, the services that that airport provides, and that casually in the last three years that airport has seen that it's taken off to the ATM. And it's no joke, eh! In the last three years, it's been removed from the ATM. Therefore, why don't we start by making investments that truly make that airport an optimal airport and up to the level of the people we can receive? Why don't we start by improving, expanding services and the supply of facilities, responding to the demands that, among other institutions, Ortzibia has been making, in which several affected institutions are represented? Why don't we approach those investments? Why does Aena not respond to the demands, among others, of the workers, who have suffered from the cuts of the People's Party Government even if their own physical integrity has been put at risk, as we were told by representatives of the Workers' Commissions at an appearance they made at general meetings, I think I remember that about two or three years ago? Why don't we start with the simplest, the most basic, so that this airport is truly competitive and is, as I said, an airport up to the historical territory of Gipuzkoa? But it gives me the feeling that today you, in your legitimate political game, have come here to try to get our colors out trying to see the contradictions that we have some, but I was already telling you, try to see those of your home first, because your minister has been tremendously cautious about this issue. Or it gives me the feeling that you have brought him here today to avoid a responsibility and that responsibility is spread aliquotically between different institutions. And no, the responsibility is your government's, the responsibility is Aena's. Therefore, if you believe so vehemently that the only alternative to guarantee the future of Hondarribia airport is enlargement, I would ask you to direct Aena to carry out an implementation project and put it on the table so that, among other things, environmental and urban conditions can be valued. You can do it quietly! They do not need either the endorsement of this Parliament or the endorsement of the general meetings, or even the endorsement of the Congress of Deputies. Do it, do it! Why don't they? Or do you perhaps want to save your back, as I said, by sharing a responsibility in an aliquot manner? Finally, I believe that there is prudence on this issue. I believe that we are in time to wait for the results of the works being undertaken, to analyse them, and on that basis to make the appropriate decisions, if necessary, of course to ensure in any case the future and full operation of the airport in Hondarribia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. I think our team's commitment to the economic and social development of the Gipu, and not only because we defend the survival of the sandribi-Donostia airport, but because our activity in many other areas proves that. We are not, as Mr. Jon Hernandez has said, to the close of the Residents' Airport, and we are not even likely to die. We think, as we explained in our amendment, that for the country, the Gipuese, the physical infrastructure is very important, there it is, and what we want is to guarantee its present and future operation. But you, Mr. Sémper, forget some of the factors, some reality, some direct influences in the sandria airport. The safety of travellers, of course, is not only the security of the inhabitants, but also of the welfare of the inhabitants, but, on the one hand, the employments of the airports, but also the environment and the planning of cities, both of the City of Surbium and of the City of Irungo. And apparently you forget those factors. And I think they should consider it. Nos habla de leader beyond, y yo tambien's soul was born... The leadership is asking the Spanish Government to ask you for the right hand. That's what it would be to have a leadership of yours. And it would be also the leadership, as Mr. Ainza said in a very proper manner, to ask Aena to develop other services from the country or from the airport. That's what you need as a leader for, too. And perhaps you, not only as a member of the legislature but as president of the Gipuguian Flat Party, would like to see a little more of the leadership, because, as far as we can, it's clear that it's between the jurisdictions of the United States of Gerica and that this jurisdiction isn't yet in the hands of the Euskion. We insist that we want, of course, to ensure the present and future viability, the present and future operation of the airport of Hondarribia-Donostia. And I, without wishing to enter the manifestations of the Socialist Party, but if Mr Andueza allows me, will echo very recent statements made by the infrastructure manager of the Gipuzkoa Parliament, Marisol Garmendia, who says that "Aena guarantees that all the slotting work will be carried out before the end of December, and that all this will make it possible to guarantee the current operation of the aircraft". And MP Garmendia adds that "the managers and those responsible for the airport" (i.e., Aena and Ministry of Development), "as well as the companies most affected, have assured us and guaranteed that with the slotting of the track, which is an exceptional measure that they have implemented for the first time in Hondarribia, it will be enough". Therefore, we trust all of this. I think your stance – let me tell you – sounds a little pose and posture. Because speaking of leadership, and being you not only a parliamentarian, but president of the Gipuzkoa People's Party, perhaps the one who should exercise some leadership is yourself and in your own ranks. Starting with the councillor they have in the Municipality of Hondarribia, who is against enlargement and therefore against its approaches, that is, against the approaches of the President of the People's Party of Gipuzkoa. And more leadership still probably in Irun City Hall. Because, as you know, within the urban conditions that would have the extension of the track, a condition would be to the entire polygon or the area of San Miguel-Anaka, an area that you think you well know, because in your day was councilman of Urbanism of the Irun City Council, and that for many years now the Iundara Consistory tries to develop in order to be able to offer its citizens, and citizens in general, more housing, many of them of official protection. From that point of view, you should know that in January 2015 the new general urban plan was approved with a view to fifteen years, and then, just a year ago, the Special Plan San Miguel-Anaka, which provides 1,200 housing units, 900 of which are of official protection. And all this was approved with the popular party's vote in Irun City Hall. For that means, Mr. Semper, the crushing logic tells us that it is incompatible with the extension of the runway at the airport of Hondarribia with the maintenance of the planned urban plan for the area of San Miguel-Anaka. Therefore, in the exercise of that leadership that you claim from others, you should first try to give it to yourself, and you would have to explain to the irundarras and to all the Gipuzcoans why the People's Party chooses (yes, call, call the city hall). Why choose: if you opt for the extension of the Hondarribia track, or you opt for all the housing promotions planned in the San Miguel-Anaka area, which, I insist, are no more than 1,200, of which 900 are of official protection. And you have to speak clearly. That is why I say that in a direct way from the City Hall of Hondarribia you are opposed to enlargement (yes, I was talking to Mr Alonso, and you have not realized that I was also asking him for leadership in the City Hall of Hondarribia, because his councilman is against enlargement, and therefore there you are against enlargement in a direct way), and in an indirect way, through the approval of the entire urban programme of San Miguel-Anaka, you are also against the extension of the track in practice. Therefore, I call this position somewhat postureous, and it would have to explain to the irundarras and the Gipuzcoans exactly what the People's Party proposes. If what it proposes is the development of that entire urban area, the most important probably of all Gipuzkoa, together with that of Txomin Enea (because I also want to say that we are also Gipuzcoans; I am Gipuzcoan, of Goierri, of Beasain more specifically), if it opts for that, or whether it opts for the extension of the track of the airport of Hondarribia. It exercises its leadership, and above all a little clarity and coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u58	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The representative of the EH Group, who has no correction, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u59	Good morning, everyone. You can't get bored anymore. I mean, you can't get bored anymore, because this is a manido, remanido, known theme... No one, no one, no one knows what you want to do with this airport today. And that's the reality. And if this phrase is so sharp I say it is because it seems that in this Chamber there is not enough political courage to say it. To this day, no one knows what they want to do with this airport. And now we take the invention out of enlargement, when there was already enough consensus and common sense implemented in Gipuzcoan society not to expand that airport. Simply because the data don't give. They don't. I mean, are we always going to do everything in the Spanish style? Are we going to do everything in the Spanish style? Like, "I don't know what to do with something; it doesn't work, then I'm gonna make it bigger for it to work"? That's the Spanish style: "I'm going to make it bigger." Everything big, big, big, works or doesn't. The public pasta is already spent. That's the solution to the Hondarribia airport. One, because you don't think of it as a country. Indeed, your country and mine are not the same. I mean, in my country, in Euskal Herria, there are different airports, there are not three. From the Basque Autonomous Community, we have one in Miarritz, which works excellently well, and there is one in Noain. That's my country, and there are five airports in my country. For a population of 3 million, I think it is more than enough. What needs to be decided is how we coordinate those airports. Because, regardless of whether your country is different from mine, you will also have to coordinate with the neighbouring country, according to your country's conception. It will have to coordinate with Miarritz, because two airports within fifty kilometres will have to coordinate. The airport of Hondarribia has obvious conditions. One of them is that exactly as your country is like you do, there are flights that can't work from what time (from 10 o'clock I think it is), because they affect French airspace. Therefore, we have a problem with flight operations. We have an environmental problem. Nor am I an environmental technician, but there is one problem: there is a LIC there, and if an extension of the airport is made it affects the LIC and it seriously affects the environment. Therefore, only that, that alone, would already be a sufficient reason not to promote enlargement. That on the one hand: the topic of flights and operations. But it's just that, as I'm saying, Bilbao airport works, Gasteiz airport needs to rethink, Noain airport needs to rethink, and I think what we have to do here is a serious approach. The first approach is that the Statute of Autonomy, which has not been fulfilled for forty years, must be complied with. Because, of course, what powerfully attracts my attention is that this issue should be brought here, when you are in Madrid and you have not transferred this competition. So in this Parliament this paints nothing, this paints nothing. Unfortunately, he does not paint anything about the airport of Hondarribia. Unfortunately, that the airport of Hondarribia is a ghost airport, where there is a bar that opens an hour, and when you go the same it is not, the same is closed; where you have a general manager who doesn't care at all about how the track is, how the services are, how tourists and people come from other places to the airport of Hondarribia... , which is a pity, because, if that is the first impression one takes from Euskal Herria, it is certainly quite regrettable. All this is in the hands of the People's Party, it is in the hands of the People's Party of the Spanish Government. So what I don't understand is what you come here to ask for, when that competition is exclusive to the Spanish State today, simply because it gives you the will and simply because you haven't transferred the competition. Therefore, coming here to ask I do not know what support, when the absolute executive capacity to bid, design and award is exclusively yours, besides not only the Spanish State, but yours in particular, I do not understand what it comes to. I don't have that much time to lose. I don't have it. I'm running out of time in my life. I don't understand! I mean, I think it's great that people like to talk and that we debate and bring things here, but we're going to bring things a little more serious, things that we have something to say and something to do. Because, of course, the Gipuzcoan institutions have not taken part at all in anything that happens at the airport of Hondarribia. The manager is very kind, he looks after you perfectly and gives you food, but beyond that he does nothing. It has not served the institutions of Gipuzcoana, it has not served the municipalities of the area, it does not serve the Basque Government. We have a wall! We have an infrastructure that's here, that should be managed from here, and it's not being managed from here, it's being managed from Madrid. And now those who manage it from Madrid come to tell us here that we support them to make an enlargement in Madrid, with a money from them? I mean, I don't understand the film, I don't understand the point, I don't understand the approach, and, of course, I'm totally against enlargement. We will support the compromise amendment because we believe that we need to be a little more rigorous and a little more serious here. I think we have to act in a much more serious way on this subject, there's time to figure out what to do with this airport and think about it. This concerns Aena-for unfortunately, I say to her again, because I think the transfer must have been here for a long time, because it leaves us free, but it's too much a cost for our country, it's too big for us to get out. I think we should have the transfers of all substructures, we must have them, we must handle them, we must have the budget, we must make the investments, and we must make the designs. And as long as this is not the case, I think it is rather obscene to come here for a protection from something that can be done in the State. I don't know how to get out of this ridiculous infrastructure. We think there's a way out of that airport, we think there's something we can do with other airports without needing to do, because we believe that the airport in the Wasteland has its own resources, but what we have to look for and design. And everything else seems to me to be useless words. And so, as I said, we vote against you and vote for the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Ugarte, you don't have to insist that you don't understand anything. Its intervention has been medium-clear. Nor are we surprised, because your tradition also leads you to be against everything, everything that implies transport, mobility, and everything that implies progress. However, for you and for someone else who has also spoken about competition – and I say this from the beginning so that you have time to take a look at it – it is clear that there is no debate on this, because neither does the Basque Government itself raise it in its report on outstanding transfers. Because, as you should know to nothing that you have read something on the subject (and the same Mr Uribe-Etxebarria), any modification of the infrastructure is incardinated directly in the control of the airspace, also derived from the sentences of the Constitutional Court. Thus, even the Basque Government itself does not request such a transfer in its recently announced and submitted transfer report. This is truly surprising, that you come here to blame us for not carrying out a certain transfer, and neither does the Basque Government itself ask for it. Hey, so we're innovating. Madam Counsellor, you must also explain to Mrs Ugarte and her training partner, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, who, by the way, I also encourage one thing: that I consider that in addition to prudence it is important, when one intends to give lessons, to come up with the lesson learned. Indeed, I am well aware of Irun's planning, and I am well aware of the development, to say the least, of the San Miguel-Anaka area. And who has been given the role should you give a tip of ears, because one of the fundamental issues for the development of San Miguel-Anaka first has been the transformation of the price of the soil and therefore the transformation of the residual value, but you should also know that Irun's planning in this area of San Miguel-Anaka contemplates airport conditions resulting from a hypothetical enlargement. Ask your councilman in Irun what happened to him, as I say, the role with someone else wrong. And that's where I'm going to leave it. And Mr. Andueza, I'm going to remind you of one thing. Look, I propose you expand the track, and you tell me about the sale of the track. Look, we're on two levels, actually. I believe that you have been dragged by the Basque Nationalist Party into that lack of interest in ensuring the viability of the airport, because it cannot be understood that someone who refuses to convert will do here a demonstration of confirmation of conversion, Mr Andueza. Look, and it's not about the contradictions, but, listen, a little bit of... a little bit of what you have to have! Arriola in 2009, Infrastructure Advisor of this government, today also advisor (otherwise, but also advisor), said in an interview in Herri Irratia... It is true that Councillor Arriola at the time was what you are now, secretary general of the Socialist Party in Gipuzkoa, and apparently more energetically defended the Gipuzcoan interests. Arriola said: "The extension of one hundred and fifty meters to Mendelu and fifty meters to the sea is a reasonable solution" (in relation to the extension of the runway of San Sebastián airport in Hondarribia). From the point of view of the neighbours, it affects them only the current situation." That's what Mr. Arriola said. With whom you have to clarify things is with your party partner, predecessor and member of this government. But what a demeanor this is! You would also have to speak with Mr. Denis Itxaso, your candidate in the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council and a strong advocate for the expansion of the San Sebastián airport runway, to which his government partners gave a shot of their ears. I understand that you didn't want them to give it to you today. And, of course, also with Odon Elorza, although I can understand that maybe that costs him a little more. But he is his deputy, his representative in the Congress of Deputies, a strong defender too. And even Odón Elorza was able to reach an agreement with the People's Party, you see. And if Odon Elorza got it, won't you get it? And, of course, it turns out, Mr. Andueza, that all this in the end to what leads us to is that, in fact, you say, "Hey, first let's see if the slot works, and then we'll see if we'll expand the track or what we're doing." But let's be more ambitious! Listen, let's ask the Basque government leadership, that the lehendakari or the councilwoman exercise leadership in trying to win the will of the Foral Chamber of Gipuzkoa, the municipalities of San Sebastián, Irun and Hondarribia, hear, all of you in defense of the historical territory and its infrastructures! Why not? Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, if this airport were in Bilbao it would be enlargement yes or yes. It was either yes or yes. But as Gipuzkoa is, we are the poor brothers, and always postponed, always relegated, and always problems of every order. And you are subordinated to that centralism exercised by the Basque Government, which is a centralism that permanently harms the rest of historical territories. Mr. Arriola, I've quoted you before for good, because there you were right, but you have a problem with your party mates. And I say it without any kind of snoring, the right thing for good; the second one had something more to joke about. Well, look, I'm going to tell you, I honestly believe that today, with this decision, you are damaging the future viability of the airport. I honestly believe that. I think the uncertainties about that infrastructure are not clear, but they are still darker, darker. And I can assure you that we oppose and oppose (in this case I oppose, as Gipuzcoan) the closure of San Sebastien airport in Hondarribia. I oppose that agony that you condemn. I object to that uncertainty that you condemn at the airport...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u62	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u63	...and the economic and social development of Gipuzkoa. I object to putting jobs at risk. I object to you condemning Gipuzkoa not to be modern, competitive, and not to have an infrastructure that gives guarantee and security to its users, but also to the entire historical territory of Gipuzkoa. And what they're going to vote on today is to put a dot on it, or help with a dot to keep the airport a highly uncertain infrastructure. Bad business for the Gipuzcoans when you rule us. Bad business.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u65	So, unlike Mr Semper, I believe that what is to be approved today clears up certain uncertainties, and on the contrary, it will serve to know that we are against extending this route and, therefore, working to make the airport viable without having to allow those negative conditions that I have spoken about before. And I think this is important, because I believe that no group in the House has said – as much as you say, it is not going to be true – that we are about the closure or the death of Hondarribia airport. Quite the opposite. But clearing that uncertainty with which it takes too many years, as to whether to extend the track yes or not, which has also already conditioned the urban development of Irun. Although it is true that I have to say that I would have liked a little more clarity on the part of Mr Andueza. I have to say this, because I have already said before that I would like it to be absolutely clear in this case that the Socialist Party is against this enlargement because of the negative conditions it has for the environment. And they have signed a transaction that, of course, from our point of view makes it clear, but then it comes out here to tell us that we're actually going to see how the slot goes, and then we'll see. You have therefore granted Mr Semper what he has asked, at least in his speech, to leave a certain door open. My group, of course, does not want to leave that door open. We are radically opposed to the expansion of the track. And we do not object because we are against those topics of progress, much less. We are opposed because the airport of Hondarribia is in a very special enclave, in the middle of an urban core, and is in a particularly protected environment, that if you expand that track you will have very serious conditions, that there are no environmental reports that say otherwise. Conversely, Aena herself has acknowledged that it would be very complicated to get those positive environmental reports. Therefore, in my opinion, there is no further debate. We have made our position clear. It is an absolute fallacy to say that the non-expansion of the airport runway condemns the airport to its death. It's a fallacy, and it's going to prove itself over time. It's going to prove itself over time. No one in this House wants to close Donosti Airport, and of course I, ironic, do not have any kind of Bizkaia's advantage view of Gipuzkoa, much less. We want an airport in Hondarribia, we want a viable airport, and we know that if you do things right you can do it without expanding that track, because of the conditions you have. We will therefore vote against your initiative. And we would like to place Mr Andueza in the second round of the vote to say that the Socialist Party is against this enlargement, regardless of what happens with the slotting. Because we have also seen that, in the time we have been implementing these security measures, the number of passengers at Hondarribia airport has not fallen. On the contrary, in September it increased by 3 %, and in the past year, as compared to the previous year, it has increased by more than 5 %. Therefore, I would like to place Mr Andueza in a more consistent position in this, because I do believe that in many subjects there are intermediate positions, but on whether the extension of the track produces some negative conditions, which make it not good to expand it, I do believe that we must position ourselves: yes or no to the extension of the track. And I ask you for that clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Just a minute, because the TV's gone and I can't give you time, don't take it off, and don't do anything. If they don't do it from top to bottom... You'll figure it out. But you won't know how long it is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, look, Mr Hernandez, I don't want to look like a pusher again, but, what do you want me to say to you, I'm not going to come here and say what you want, but what I want. Because it is. And you've come to ask me to say what you want me to say, and I'm not going to say it. I am going to repeat myself in what I said in the first round – and with that I think I will also answer Mrs Ugarte – that our bet is to maintain the full operation of Hondarribia airport, under three premises: the first, the safety of travellers and citizens in the surrounding areas; the second, respecting the environment and urban development of Irun and Hondarribia, and the third, with the maintenance of the current jobs. Point. That's what I said. We will always bet on the operation of the Hondarribia airport, and we prefer to be cautious. And we also understand that it can be complementary to have three airports in our Autonomous Community; what must be tried is to seek the optimization of our resources, the compatibility of those resources, and to make them truly competitive. I think it's clear enough. Mr Semper has played the aggravation, not the responsibility. And I appeal to you to play the part of responsibility, to make politics from responsibility. And I've told you, and I repeat, I'd rather be careful, why? Because there are some works that may give an optimal result, not according to what I say (which, as I told you before, I have no idea of technical issues of this kind), but what the technicians of the ministry who you govern are saying, who are telling us that probably with those works of improvement the operativity is guaranteed today and in the future. Enough. Why are we going to start here making castles in the air, when we don't even know if we are going to have an optimal environmental report so we can develop that infrastructure! You ask for ambition. Look, what do you want me to tell you? One thing is ambition, and another thing is selfishness. And I believe that this government has ambition; what we cannot do is try to put forward infrastructures that may not be necessary at the moment. For now. For now. In any case, you said that this Government lacks leadership, because you have not requested, within the pending transfers, in that report that there is, the transfer of competition. Look, do you know why he's not here? I will tell you, because then you come here to tell Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria that you have to come with the lesson learned. Look, because that's not a competition, it's not a transfer, it's forgiveness, it's a management order, and therefore it doesn't have to be in that report. And yet it is in the government agreement, because both these gentlemen and we are in favour of the government making this management order for us. Well, you say no, I say yes. Well, that's right. But that's not a transfer, that's a management order, Mr. Semper! Read the papers, read the papers, which is in the government agreement, that we will ask! How can you tell us that we lack leadership because it does not appear in a document something that is not as you put it! Anyway. In any case, I already tell you and I repeat that I prefer to be prudent and I prefer to wait for those results, as your minister has done. You used to think that there were some of my colleagues who said, who stopped saying... Well, well, I tell you and I repeat that the position of the Socialist Party of Gipuzkoa, and hence that of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, is the one I am exposing to you here. And tell me about Mr. Elorza. Let me joke: I would worry that it is precisely you who coincides with Mr. Elorza's positions. What do you want me to say to him? What do you want me to say to him? In any case, it has given me the feeling that today you have come here to cast a posture. I think it's very good, legitimate, but it doesn't hang. That in politics it is often necessary to be prudent, and you cannot come here to do politics-fiction. And what you have come here today is to do fiction-policy, to build castles in the air without even knowing that an infrastructure that you are putting on the table can be materializable, according to the European guidelines that we have on the table. I would therefore ask you a little more caution in the future and, as you recommend to others, to pay more attention to what your colleagues with government responsibilities say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you. Mr. Semper, if you'd like to hear from me... Yeah? Okay, yeah, you're able to do four or five things at a time, right? It's very... Well, you're not just not leading the Gipuzkoa People's Party, but, as Mr. Andueza has made clear, you're not able to read the reports either, nor are you able to get the right and proper information regarding the possible... , not possible, but real affection of a possible extension of the track of the airport of Hondarribia, above all the urban development of San Miguel-Anaka. Because you have a condition, you have a condition, and you have an absolutely clear condition (Miss Bengoechea, don't sulphide me; quiet, quiet, lasai, ez kezkatu). It has a condition, and it has a clear condition so are the logical rules of safety, both of travelers as especially in this case of neighbors, on the sidelines or adding other kinds of regulations on noise, etc., etc., etc. And the promotion of San Miguel-Anaka could not be carried out as it has been approved in the event of the extension of the track. Apart from the fact that the work of urban development is already well advanced. Agreements are being negotiated with the owners, and before the end of the year the excavators will enter to do the soil decontamination work. Therefore, all that is already underway, and one thing like the one you are proposing is that the only thing you would bring would be uncertainty and put that promotion at serious risk. Well, you have resorted to comparative aggravation and whining to, I don't know, probably hide your own responsibilities: responsibilities in relation to Aena, responsibilities in relation to the transfer of exclusive competence that is provided for in the Gernika Statute itself... In short, to the aggravation to hide their weaknesses and their lack of responsibility. Look, I'm Gipuzcoan, the counselor too. We are Gipuzcoans, and I will not question that you are not Gipuzcoan. You are a Gipuzcoan, but what is clear to me is that the Gipuzcoans politically do not want you. They have only one junta at Gipuzkoa General Councils. So, I am not going to question your status as a Gipuzcoan, but what I do know is that politically the Gipuzcoans do not want you and you. And from there, maybe I'd have to draw some kind of conclusion. We continue to have a clear and firm commitment to the infrastructure of the airport of Hondarribia-Donostia/San Sebastián, taking into account all the factors that influence that infrastructure, which is what it is. We obviously bet on the economic and social development of the Gipuzcoan territory, as well as that of the whole of Euskadi, and here we demonstrate it I believe day by day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u70	I confess to you that I have enjoyed the discussion of this point, that I have enjoyed much listening to so many things. Mr. President of the Socialists of Gipuzcoans (ah, Secretary General; okay, cool), you have to be careful, okay? You have to be careful. As prudence indicates that airports must be transferred, competences must be transferred. The management order is something else. It's when you do something and you have a competition, and temporarily, for something concrete, you entrust it to another institution or public enterprise to do the temporary management. That's a management order. In this case, with the airports what is being requested is the transfer of the competition, which is contained in the Statute of Autonomy, and which is... Yeah, it's collected, and it's in the transfer report, which I just reviewed and I got it... Yeah. Another thing is airspace, but airports should be the competence of the Autonomous Community, and I think we should all be in line with that. I'm also a Gipuzcoan, but before Gipuzcoan I'm a Basque, just like that I'm in the muda between Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and I don't feel very specifically... and that Oñati was a county, and therefore I don't know what's wrong with me, but I think like a Basque. And as a Basque, I think the Hondarribia airport should never have been done there. It should never have been done there. I don't know what engineer had the lighting to do it there, but it never had to be done there. And from that lighting we have these muds, okay? Then I think it's time all of us to be honest. I know we can't say a lot of things because they're politically inadequate, and then there's a crowd of people who're supposed to be the combination of duplicatives, or what kind of comercitatives, or the hostelations, because a people may feel hurt, and then we all say that we have to rethink theability of the sandriviary airport. And it needs rethinking. But this rethinking probably has nothing to do with the plan of the airport at Loiu, because that's what we have Loiu for. And from Loiu you're here in an hour and in less time than a lot of Gipuese areas. So we need to think like a village, think what the Basque Country is, and we need to see what we need five airports for. It's impossible to meet five airports, all with the Loiu planning, because it's impossible. And we all know that. So what I'd like to ask is if you'd put a lot of shit on the RedMork account, just ask me to do those transfers, which haven't been completed in the 40 years to order the Spanish government, and really make a deep studio. For the several inquiries which have hitherto been made, and they have produced no results. We don't have fleets, we're not financing march companies with public money. In this respect I think all institutions agree. So that policy to attract companies, to attract flights, all the attempts we have made, and the attempts made by different agreements made with the Chamber of Gipus, we have seen that they have not given any results. I think it ought to be given another thought, I think we ought to appeal to another plan, and there can be no such thing as a plan of competition with the Loiucian, but an arrangement which is additional, and I think we ought to take care of it. This is, on the one hand, the return of the transfers, and, on the other hand, the process of making a plan for this addition. And, of course, I'm convinced that a future without an amplifier is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10th, the contrary, 61; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u72	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the supporters of 61; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u73	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Another proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, in regard to the 2020th year of the Euskal strategy of Immigration. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and take over. [[Words]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u74	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President, Congressman. Together, from the Podemos group, I bring a new initiative regarding emigration and refurition. He insists that nos preocupa y nos viene ocupando desde el inicio de la Legislature. So far, we have promoted initiatives on refugee policies, on shelter and refugee rights, on border policy and its impact, on people who are on their way to a dignified life and unfortunately have to choose unsafe ways, on access to registration, nationality... We have proposed appearances, and we also want to talk about the opinion of the Basque Government regarding the construction of a wall of shame in Euskadi. Beraz, legez besteko proposeamen honekin, Elkarrekin We can taldeak, berriro ere, eskubideak, bizikidetza eta gizarte kohesiorako politicak being you eta Bultzatu nahi ditu. And we are satisfied and we acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of all parliamentary groups to reach agreement today. But I'm going to talk about the initiative. We said in the justification that the Basque Immigration Strategy ended its existence at the end of 2016. As a commitment 140 of this government's program appears to update the Basque Immigration Strategy by 2020, but no specific deadlines are set. We are concerned about this, and that is why we are dealing with and bringing this initiative today. Because, we like to more or less recognize it, we find ourselves at a time when more and more often there are situations that can put coexistence at risk, and to show some Ikuspegi data: The perception of the number of migrants residing in Euskadi has increased from 16.8 to 20.3, with only 6.5 of the resident population. Sympathy towards the migrant population is positive in Euskadi towards those who come from cultures similar to ours, such as the European Union or Argentina in the case of America; on the contrary, the lowest degree of sympathy is manifested towards the population of Pakistani, Romanian and Maghreb origin. The assessment of these three nationalities worsens year by year, and that is something that we must all worry about and deal with, because it is, in the cases of Morocco and Romania, those that are among the first three migrant groups, reaching up to 20% of the migrants' origins in Euskadi. 51.6% of Basque society continues to have a false perception that migrant people take advantage of income-guarantee income. We know that this does not conform at all to reality. Nor is it adjusted that 43.2% think that the presence of foreign people per se increases machism, or that Islam is a religion that awakens distrust of citizenship. We suppose that the media coverage, too often plagued with stereotypes and misinformation, which is transmitted about phenomena such as jihadism or the recent attacks in Barcelona, does not contribute at all to the reception society looking with confidence at people who practice the Muslim religion, but the public administration, in its leadership role on integration and coexistence policies, must contemplate this and must set in motion processes with the maximum possible social and citizen support, which collaborate in the construction of a more cohesive citizenship, which guarantees as a basic premise the fulfilment of human rights, and that it will enable a comprehensive and quality reception for all the neighbours and neighbours residing in Basque. We have enough data to say that in addition to what is already being done, and of course in our opinion, it would have been essential that the Basque Strategy for Immigration, Citizenship and Intercultural Co-existence should have been launched this year, and that there would never have been gaps or gaps, but evaluation and continuous and constant work. Even more so when in August we learned, through the press – and it is a pity that neither the councillor nor the lehendakari are here today – that, coinciding with the Barcelona attack, a working group consisting of three departments is being convened to address the issue of jihadism and that it will be presented at the end of September (we understand that already in October), to give a comprehensive response and to make an approach – this textual – "to the integration of migrant groups that can offer some kind of drift towards terrorist dynamics". In this context, we understand that the Basque Government, and more specifically the Department of Employment and Social Policy, is working on the new migration strategy, while at the same time working from Lehendakaritza on a plan against jihadism, and at the same time implementing a plan of coexistence and human rights. There are three spaces, and without a clear strategy that brings together and orders and takes into account all these areas can pose some risks that we hope will not happen. We hope that plans will not overlap, because that would also run counter to the intra- and inter-institutional articulation that the current strategy intended to install and strengthen. Let us hope that plans will not be pushed forward with colliding approaches, such as the rights approach and an approach to something, with a strong security profile, and in this case against jihadism. We want clarity, and we hope and express our will to be able to participate. We also hope that the strategy itself will not replace or occupy more space an approach against jihadism than that of human rights, a comprehensive approach, a citizenship approach and a coexistence approach, and that is why from Elkarrekin we can work to ensure this and to build on this. In this initiative and in this agreement today we intend to give an impetus to the much needed Basque Strategy for Immigration, Citizenship and Co-existence, so we present an agreement unanimously that urges the government to present before the end of 2017 the latest evaluation of the Basque Strategy for Immigration, scheduled for 30 June 2017 and that has not yet been presented. And the government is also urged that in the first six months of 2018, although we are already late, present to this Parliament the new Basque strategy with the horizon 2020, as advanced at the meeting of the Forum for Social Integration and Participation last September 6. During the drafting process, through this amendment, the participation of the actors envisaged in the Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Citizens and Immigrant Citizens, where various institutional, social and trade union actors are integrated, including representatives of Ikuspegi-Vasco Observatory of Immigration, members of Biltzen-Service for Integration and Intercultural Co-existence, and the Ararteko, with a view to ensuring a consensus framework and allowing this new strategy, such as this agreement today, to be shared and to involve citizens as a guarantee of an integral development of human rights and co-existence policies. Finally, we agree that it is essential to strengthen the structure and articulation of inter-institutional consensus, as well as the participation of civil society actors involved in the issue. From Elkarrekin We can, in addition to hoping to contribute to this plan, hope that this strategy will define and provide stable, permanent resources to migration and diversity policies, from a global perspective and with the objective of defending rights, maximizing the efficiency of the work and coordinating the different spaces. Finally, we're glad we've made a deal for all the teams again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u76	I am speaking to say that when we received the proposal from the Elkarrekin Group we could certainly not refuse it, because it was a matter whose previous edition had already been completed and it was a matter that was even included in the government program of this eleventh legislature. However, we would like, and at that time we also wanted – and I thank Mrs Guanche who was receptive – to make a constructive contribution for a reason. In that first version, a period of six months was given. Well, you have to understand a little more how we work, and how six months could stay short, and that's why there's now a first two months, or what it takes to make the diagnosis first, which is one thing, of course, supernecessary, and then six months to complete the plan. We believe that this can be done, and we therefore appreciate Mrs Guanche's receptiveness. But, agreed on this, just as she has done before me, it is very difficult not to comment a little on what each group of this initiative expects. Look, I agree, too, and we haven't talked about it, with something: this has to be a cross-cutting plan. It has to be a cross-sectional plan. As she has said, there are different initiatives that in one way or another relate to the same phenomenon, and forces would disperse if we did not turn it into a cross-cutting plan. Because, if we're going to talk about how we're organized here, it affects even several counseling centers. It affects the Health Council, of course, because not all of them, but there will be groups of people who come with illnesses, with illnesses, and who will have to be attended to. It affects young people, for example, because we have a large number of young people. It affects Education: it is something that I always relate to adult lifelong learning, because it has done a fantastic job over the years in helping these people join our society. It even affects Security, because yesterday a person from Without Borders came to the Human Rights Commission, or Removing Borders (then you say it, Mrs Guanche, I don't remember the name now), but he explained some things to us. Without fully agreeing with his views, the facts are stubborn, and, for example, he gave us data and explained to us that Bilbao at the moment is happening above all women that the mafias lead to prostitution in the rest of Europe. They pass through Bilbao to the rest of Europe, and many of them are minors. He spoke to us – and he is a person who has data – of ten- and twelve-year-old girls, who come with forged papers in which they say they are elderly. Ten and twelve years. It is not exactly an NGO; it is an organization that cares a lot about putting names and surnames to people, focusing on individuals. Therefore, when they say the case of these girls, they can document it. And that's happening right now through Bilbao, which is one of the gateways. It therefore also affects the Security Council. A specific plan against this trafficking would be needed. Not against the trade whose exploitation takes place here, but against Euskadi as a road to the trade going to Europe. Finally, that is why I agree with what Mrs Guanche has said before, which I say to you already that we have not talked about: that this has to be a multilateral perspective and that there has to be a transversality in this immigration plan. That's what we expect. And we also look forward to learning about the Basque Government's project, how it wants to lead this issue. What do I mean by that? I mean that we always talk about the participation of multiple social actors, and of course it is necessary and we are here to listen, but responsibility cannot be forgotten that in every competition it is ours. And the Government must exercise that leadership and must exercise that competence. You have to listen, no doubt, but, as I told you the other day, neither the Government nor Parliament nor the institutions are socio-cultural animators. No, no, We are people who want to lead projects. Then, we would like to know with what previous idea, with what approach, with what leadership the Basque Government addresses this issue, and then enrich it with the contributions of associations, civil society, etc. Because let us not forget that these associations, superlegitimously, and being many – as I told this lady yesterday – the salt of the earth, tireless workers, are defending sectoral interests. I do not want to call them particular, because no one who leaves his skin on these issues can be told that he defends a particular interest, but interests with a narrower, more sectoral point of view. And, after all, it is the Basque Government that has to put the overview of the general interest in an immigration plan. That's what we expect. And, although we can then differ in later stages, at least we want to congratulate everyone, because we have achieved this first consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u78	Congressman, good day. The migration-flows of economic, political, cultural, and social reasons have always been produced, and many Basques have been dispersed throughout the world, and many persons and groups of different origins have come to this community. Hence it follows that this community is of all colours in respect of the origin of the people. But, alas, the functions of the Renaissance are not at hand to answer this question of manifold origin from beginning to end. Policy related to emigration and variety, marked by Europe and the Spaniards of states, and the circumstances of this policy are known to us all, and the influences which these politics exercise on the conditions of foreign persons. There's only to see what's been happening with the refugees and what's happened in years, or what's happened yesterday, and what Mrs. Bengochea has brought here, isn't it? It does not produce the first passion, but this subject also appears in the report of the powers just entered into the power of self-organization. I don't know about this airport, but I know this. And in this report, the difficulty which the Renaissance has of securing the welfare of the emigrants is evident. It is received that the member of the community should be able to adopt tools for years in which new migration movements will remain under decent conditions. Still, while this change of hand is being given, it's all over, like Imigration, important things to say and to do. His action is decisive in the conditions of the lives of foreign persons who live in the Middle Ages, and who, besides their actions, are capable of producing it in the most beautiful states of the Spaniards and Europe, or ought to be. Even with little hands, we have a great challenge in hand. It is therefore necessary, instead of waiting, to conceal itself in this want of jurisdiction, and to prevent these violations of human rights which are systematic, and to decide how to come and manage multiplicity as a people, and in this it may help us to update the plan of Immigration which we speak of at night. And, in fact, the possibility of this update being reached from this vast convenience is not very rare and very grateful. To the thread of what has been received in the bargain, it must be said that there have been many years in the past to answer to the wants of the migrators and foreigners the projects and programs that were started in our work, the unions produced and the created work of nets. All these, in order to offer attention and intervention to those who came from other countries, and many of them have been accomplished in the plan of Immigration. But the present state seems to us to require reflection, doesn't it? On the one hand, those actions which have been developed in this plan to ensure the effective socialization of strangers must be recognised. When we know and value them, we must establish those who have been adequate; we must encourage the work of the network, and likewise encourage learning and innovation. And on the other hand, by the same and the same way, and by the line of the former, this regulation, which is still in force, is a very important consideration of those difficulties which we find to lead to the practice of these policies for foreign societies. And that's why we thought it inevitable that in the agreement we'd obtained today we'd be able to guarantee the question of the evaluation. And that's where I think we've had a great deal of understanding. And we don't know what this evaluation will do, but there are some situations that might be any concern in foreign persons at the moment, don't we? Because, on the one hand, the incest of social poverty and social inequality shows that poverty and the experience of retirement are peculiarly hard on the strangers, we know that they have been integrated into the lowest areas of labour, and that they move in the prevarication and unemployment. I believe that the circumstances of foreign women are particularly remarkable, even from their crudeness. They work at 52% of their homes and work on surveillance, and many of them are almost slaves. They have fewer social networks for protection than foreign persons, and therefore they are obliged to attend public services, and generally more vulnerable. And besides, I dare say that the 'Zeechea' and 'Bagoechea' have also mentioned that there are difficulties and privations in different parts of public politics, as to the subject of multiplicity and the care of strangers. The difficulties that are given in health are known, and the cases of segregation in the education system are also known... Now, it may be said, that to the point of what he has said, the extent in which these policies of Imigration ought to be, will show us how the evaluation is, but we may say that there are difficulties. And Mrs. Guanche has spoken well about the data around the perception that has revealed the views through its barometer. But it is clear that we of the Basques have a positive attitude on the immigration, but that we prefer strangers not to be present with us. And I shall not enter into these other stereotypes, because he has very well explained them. But I think if we want to develop it as a highly developed society, it's a statement to worry about them. And therefore it seems to us, that as to the establishment of the plan received in the agreement, from these evaluations and reflections, to secure an unconditional protection from the emigrants and refractory persons, it is a peculiar policy, based on the active defence of the rights inherent in the universal community, to enable them to act in action, very indirect, and indirect. It seems to us that the paradigma must be given a change in the sphere of migration and multiplicity, and that perhaps the first steps may arise in this plan of life between the citizen and culture. We also have some such ideas about what the plan should go about, and we have tried to receive it in our repentance, but it seems to us, first and then, that we must understand that we must understand it, that in this case also, that there is an emigration of life, and that we must take care of this situation, because migration has many aspects, and that it has many aspects, we need to do a special work on the side of the interior. That it should be based on the active defense of rights connected to universal citizenship and that it should be based on a whole policy defined as a country. That the new plan cannot content itself with arranging for the forum, and financing actions that organize other agents. There has to be a clear public leader. The public leader who will strive to raise and direct a worthy reception to strangers is absolutely indispensable. Of course, the intervention of foreign agents and persons must be supported, and, moreover, must be well provided. And if we have identified in this report of the hand-collars presented by Erkoe, the tools and powers which the persons who are in new movements are to be taken under worthy conditions of life, the new plan would have to make a special effort to complete and organize them. And the structure necessary for this would have to create syllogies and nets. It seems as if we've all settled in that way when we've all introduced our amendments, and I think that some of us, some of us, have, somehow, made up the proposition of today, and that we've been able to define what we're going to do and how we're going to do it again, and it's a relief. For, after all, the reception we give to strangers will, in some measure, be the example and indiscretion of our humanity. And in this degree, it is to be thanked for the proposition, and also for the honesty of the party, both for liberality and bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will begin by saying that the one who actually appeared yesterday was Helena Maleno Garzón, spokesperson for Walking without Borders, a collective closely linked to the defense of the issues that we are bringing today. So, I thought I got to start by mentioning his name, because precisely because he defends these collectives he is attacked and has had to file some complaint in his status as a woman. Then, go on in that sense the recognition, because he is really a person who is very closely linked to the issue that we are dealing with, and I was very sorry yesterday, for other matters, that I missed his appearance. Indeed, we have made a good agreement among all of us. And among all of them, I will repeat it, because we are all women who have dealt with the matter. We have made a good agreement, but I also believe that it is not based solely on that point which refers to the government agreement. I believe that precisely all the actions that the proposer has mentioned – which has allowed this to be discussed here, and therefore I am grateful for this – refer to one point, but it is also true that the government agreement bases all its principles and commitments on a very global action, eh! And now it has not given me time to review everything, but I know that it establishes universality in health, I know that in the educational pact I bet on this integration that Mrs Guanche defends and that she has also come to defend Nerea Kortajarena; she also talks about social balance, interculturality and coexistence in educational institutions, even to advance in a balanced integration of immigrant students in the public and private network, which we still have much to do on this issue. It also speaks of the plural culture of Basque society; the government agreement also speaks of the commitment to the 2030 Agenda, of the social pact for immigration as well, and finally, it is true, and it is one of the fundamental bases, of coexistence and human rights. I therefore believe that with the political agreement so broad that exists in this House on this matter, and a government agreement that allows us to act in a comprehensive, cross-cutting way, because there is no other way to address an immigration strategy, as the Basque society asks us, which is mostly positive in favour of what we are defending today, we have the necessary arguments, we have the involvement and the sufficient commitment of the government, and now it will be up to the parliamentarians to support it with these debates that indeed, regardless of who it affects – because it goes beyond Gipuzkoa, Euskadi and also from the borders – it is up to us to defend it. Therefore, in that sense, I hope and wish that that transversality that launched the third plan in particular... Then came the last strategy, but in the third plan approved by the government of Patxi López it was one of its essential bases: transversality, interdepartmentality, and also collaboration with social organizations. Because that forum is precisely because it was approved by that third plan approved at that time, which I think it was in 2013...? It was in 2013 or 2015, I don't know, I don't remember it right now. But that's why I think we have a calm in that government agreement all of us who are busy and worried, because I think it's very important what Mrs Guanche has pointed out, given the few people who are now listening to us, to be able to work. Indeed, because this, as Mrs Kortajarena said, concerns us and concerns all Basques, because we know perfectly well that we are interdependent and therefore globally responsible for the problem we have in the definitive integration of the people who have come to share (to share, not to take away) many things with Basque society. Immigration policies, therefore, their plans, actions and strategies, offer us the opportunity to implement these innovative policies. I have said this, we are supported by the majority of Basque society and by the solid agreements that have been reached in full after full in this matter, as all the people I address know. It is therefore up to us to make this courageous and supportive policy for human mobility. The global world for goods and capital, for information and markets, cannot be a closed world for people's mobility. We have to face the challenges of large masses of people moving around the world, and we have to guarantee the rights of refugees and asylum-seekers fleeing war or repression, but also hunger and exploitation. Those, too. In that regard, I want to say that we cannot let go of the policies of hatred and intolerance, and that must be part of the Basque strategy of 2020, because nothing that we neglect is being re-emerged and re-emerged more and more strongly. Therefore, we and the Socialists understand that there is no alternative but to combat them. We are aware that it is a very much desired electoral niche, but the people who have principles and ideals are left with nothing but to continue fighting them, because to nothing that we lower the guard will again use them against the people who have less weapons to defend themselves. I finish, because I don't think I'm going to bring anything more than all those people who've gone before me. Euskadi is fortunately a pluralist country in social, cultural, heritage, political, environmental and territorial terms, and this Parliament, this Government, its laws, plans, strategies and actions are obliged to be the maximum reflection of this diversity. We do not believe or raise walls where right now there is only coincidence, agreement, consensus and defense of all those who need it more than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The Basque Strategy for Immigration, which is the issue we are discussing today, contains concrete guidelines for achieving a cohesive society, and sets out what the path towards government action should be, as well as guiding the strategic decisions pursued by Basque society in the integration of immigrants, diversity and different cultures. The integration of immigrant citizens in Euskadi is essential in a modern society such as ours, and to achieve this the strategy works in coordination with the institutions and actors who know the situation first hand; an essential collaboration, which allows planning of the measures to be taken in the most plural and concrete way possible. Its objectives are well defined, including the structuring and inter-institutional articulation of Basque citizenship and immigration policy; access to employment and education and school success as a means of integration; access to full citizenship and resource mobilization; access to and management of diversity in public services and programmes; participation, cultural diversity and coexistence, as well as combating discrimination, racism and xenophobia. The update of this 2020 strategy that brings us here today is necessary, is planned and will be implemented, as has been done with the previous ones. In fact, the Basque Government is already developing the new strategy, because it is within the commitments, and it is also carrying out the evaluation. It is on the timetable of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, it has always been and will continue to be, as is integration, the coexistence of immigrants in the Basque Country, discrimination on grounds of origin and the observance of human rights. There is no doubt about that commitment by the Basque Government or about the work being done to update it. In addition, on more than one occasion, the Director of Family Policy and Diversity, Mr Ernesto Sainz, said so. The last time specifically was the 6th of September, when he explained at the meeting of the Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Immigrant Citizens in the Basque Country that the department is already doing its duties and that we will soon know the result. Forum which, by the way, was created in 2002 and is fundamental in the development of the strategy, and which I would like to highlight, because it is the natural channel to develop it, because it covers all the actors involved (three and seven in total), including members of public administrations, NGOs, associations and trade and business organisations. It is an advisory and permanent body, which serves to reflect and coordinate the work of all those actors that make up it. Through its commissions, it carries out joint, effective and continuous work, analysing the needs and concerns of the immigrant group and providing enriching conclusions that will then be transformed into measures, thus allowing a shared and open strategy. The Basques and the Basques know that immigration is positive and necessary, and that it enriches our culture and our society. Euskadi is an open and welcoming country, an inclusive and tolerant citizenship, with people of different origins. Some of them have been here for a long time and others have just done so, but they all want to be incorporated normally and they want to belong to the society in which they reside. As you have mentioned here, the data of the last barometer of the view shows that our position with the immigrants is a little better, but we still have a way to make it. It's essential for a country to be an integral policy, to develop euskadin's immigration policies for years, to achieve a series of plans, strategy, and services, all of which is to be met with among the eucalyptic and foreign citizens. He's been working all the time for the immigrants, so that when we get there, he's gonna be one of us. To do this he has several services: for instance, the euscal service of social life, socialization, and culture, a network of advice, a legal service of foreign service, which may be regulated by the administrative state of new arrivals, a view of the eucalypatory of the immigration; the reception of strangers; the European network of impigration. And one of the other services is the financial funding of the Eukacanic immigrants. The participation in these professionals has been ignored in designing the new strategy. Besides, he has tools for equality and not for discrimination. For instance, a net in the Exercise. Its object is to face the potentialized hatred and multiple disquisitions. What constitutes the policy of euphorka immigration, already fixed and growing for the benefit of all, co-ordinately co-ordinated and protected by environmental communication. Knowing that the Basque Government is already working on evaluation and updating, we have signed a compromise amendment among all the groups that we certainly all share. In it, without repeating too much, we urge the Government, first, to present that assessment before the end of the year; second, to the elaboration for the first six months of 2018 of that new strategy, which I insist is already being carried out. And it is true that time here is a little short, because if we want the strategy to be as participatory as possible and have as much consensus as possible, then it will take a little time to meet with all the actors involved and to contrast their views. What happens is that, since we don't start from scratch, well, we think it can be achieved. Then, third, the Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Immigrant Citizens in the Basque Country will participate during the entire elaboration process. As I have already mentioned, the strategy is in conjunction with the forum and the representatives of the agents that make up it, and they are already integrated in this case Ikuspegi and Biltzen, because they are services of Basque Government, but the more participatory and open it is, therefore, better. Fourth, strengthen the structure and articulation of inter-institutional consensuses, and continue to deepen with the actors involved. Similarly, we believe that the greater the strengthening of these networks, the more positive it will be for everyone and the better that work will be done. And fifth, of course, once the strategy is drawn up, it is referred to Parliament. Finally, I would like to congratulate all of us on the consensus we have reached, because I believe it is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. We'll take the answers turn. Word, Mrs. Guanche, it's yours from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u84	Yes, please leave the seat. Mrs. Bengoechea, just one thing. As the representative of the Socialist Party has already said, it was Helena Maleno who was with us yesterday in the committee, and she told us about all that you have told us, but she also told us about other things that I believe are important and that are also cross-cutting to the agreement that we have today. He told us about how the securitization of migration policies prevents the exercise of rights, he told us about how the outsourcing of borders prevents the exercise of human rights, and, above all, that is what I am staying here with today, which I understand will bring about this agreement, about the need to carry out public policies with high standards of human rights. That's what I'm staying with. And I also agree with you and with all the groups, and of course with the intention of continuing to be vigilant so that these agreements become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Yeah, Bengochea's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u86	Eskerrik asko. From the seat. I didn't mean to intervene... What I believe is that we have to rejoice and be very happy about this agreement today, because I fear that later on in the development of the plan we will not agree so much, for some things I have heard from the PNV representative. Especially for some of the things I've heard. But, come on, let's be happy for today. Tomorrow, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u87	Very well, Mrs. Bengochea. The Kortashes... He mustn't speak. Yeah, Romero did.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u88	Yes, Madam President. From the seat, if you'll excuse me. Man, I think it's best to keep that disposition for the deal. In fact, we have made it possible for everyone, from politics to the institution, through Basque society, to be present in the elaboration of this strategy. And no one, at least Basque society, would understand that all parties would not make that agreement possible also in the strategy. I trust it. If no one is missing, there are no exclusions, how are we going to screw up the deal, after having cost us so much to achieve it! That's what we're on!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Molina, yes, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u90	With your permission, this way. Nothing, Mrs. Bengoechea, but you're not so negative. Just.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars, EH Collectek, Sozialists, and Eukébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u92	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Groups did, concerning the natural function and use of the soil in the Basque Autonomy Erdimenta, the strategy of maintaining and restoring. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, representing the Basque Potula, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present this initiative on behalf of the People's Group, which refers to a mandate from Law 4/2015 of 25 June for the prevention and correction of soil pollution, which provides for the approval by the Government of a strategy for the protection, conservation and restoration of natural and land-use functions in the Basque Autonomous Community. The planning of soil protection policy against pollution in the Basque Country is based on two plans and one law. A law that was made in 2005 and that was changed or renewed in 2015, but plans, which are tools of action, we have two. One in 1994 was a master plan for soil protection, which was not approved but the measures contained in it were implemented until 2005, when the Law on the Prevention and Correction of Soil Pollution in the Basque Country was passed. The law from which the Contaminated Soils Plan of the Basque Country 2007-2012 is derived, a plan that is approved, that was aligned with the Basque Environmental Strategy 2002-2020, and that is the one that is in force at this time, because it is the only tool of action that we have at this time. The 2015 law incorporates a transitional provision that urges the Government to develop the contaminated soil plan, and further tells the Government that within two years, following the entry into force of the law, a strategy for the protection, conservation and restoration of natural and land-use functions will be adopted. The Contaminated Soil Plan does appear in the planning that the Government has passed to us for this legislature, but this strategy did not appear in that planning, so to our group, as it seems to us to be a very interesting and much needed tool for soil protection, it seems to us that we should start working on this strategy, and that is why we have presented this initiative. As I was telling you, within two years – says this transitional provision – a strategy will be adopted that includes the protection, conservation and restoration of natural and land-use functions that can be degraded as a result of erosion, loss of organic matter, salinization, compaction, loss of biodiversity, sealing, landslides and floods. These are the main threats to soils in Europe and also in Spain and our Autonomous Community, and this is the document in which both the European Environment Agency and the European Commission's Joint Research Centre have highlighted and acknowledged and demonstrated that the policies implemented so far at European, national and regional level have been insufficient to protect soils entirely. They therefore insist that emphasis should be placed on measures to protect soils and achieve what is called zero net soil degradation, as reflected in the Rio+20 objectives. And this protection must go through some basic aspects, such as safeguarding the supply of quality food both today and in the future; helping to keep groundwater and surface water clean; storing carbon, limiting greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to climate change; contributing to the management and mitigation of the effects of floods, fires (we have seen and are seeing what happens to fires and some natural disasters; therefore, we must insist on measures to protect soils also in this regard); also protecting biodiversity and its components; preserving healthy recreational areas; maintaining geodiversity and cultural and archaeological heritage. In short, the soil, the soils are fundamental to our life and need protection, not damage them, and, if damaged, have immediate response to repair them. Because soil is a non-renewable resource, an essential resource for the sustainable environment, and for which measures and policies must be designed to protect it. We believe that it is essential for the People's Group to have a set of measures and a working tool, which we believe should be pointed out by this strategy, and that we should achieve what we said, zero net degradation. It must be part of this strategy, and we believe that it is an important work to be carried out. This strategy, of course, must have the necessary human and economic resources, and it must also have the cooperation of all the administrations involved and also of the various departments of the Government, because it is a cross-cutting strategy that affects different areas and must have that collaboration, because only from the involvement of both the administrations and the different departments can we achieve an effective strategy. We in the initiative put forward the one-year deadline, the Government has asked us for a little more time. We have put the end of the year, and we have incorporated what I said before: to have the essential collaboration of the departments of the Basque Government concerned and the human and material means necessary for the development by the end of 2018 of a strategy for the protection, conservation and restoration of the natural and land-use functions that can be degraded as a result of erosion, loss of organic matter, salinization, compaction, loss of biodiversity, sealing, landslides and floods, among other aspects that can damage the soil. It seems to us that it is a tool of binding compliance, because we pass it by law, and we approve it unanimously in this House, and because it seems to us that it requires important work. And it would be good if we could fulfill this time of the end of 2018 and have a tool more adapted to reality than the plan we have, which is 2012. Let us hope that the soil plan, as the Government says, will also be drawn up as soon as possible. Many thanks to the amending group for the willingness to arrive at this compromise amendment, and also to some groups that have not amended but also provided some ideas. I would therefore like to thank everyone for their cooperation, and we hope that this work will be carried out as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u94	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Groups that filed the corrections. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u95	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Soil is a non-renewable resource, that is, it is a limited natural resource, which has a rate of regeneration much lower than the rates of extraction or exploitation of its ecosystem goods and services, so sustainable soil management is necessary to maintain its sustainability over time. It is clear that the current legal and administrative framework for soil protection has been very focused on the problem of chemical pollution due to industrial activity, and requires an in-depth review, with an approach that integrates sectoral policies that can have a significant impact on that, especially agriculture, regional development, water policy, transport and research. That is why we consider it very important to develop the strategy for soil protection in the Basque Autonomous Community. However, it should be noted that it derives not only from the legal mandate contained in the fifth additional provision of Law 4/2015 of 25 June 2015 for the prevention and correction of soil pollution in the Basque Country, but from a vital need to preserve a crucial and irreplaceable resource, and that it must include in a list of bodies and institutions responsible for sectoral policies and their implementation, both from the public and from the private. This strategy will undoubtedly have to respond to the principles of the above-mentioned World Soil Charter, revised in 2015 by FAO. The European Union approves its 2020 strategy, a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that materialised in 2011 in a road map towards a resource-efficient Europe and is moving towards zero net land degradation. This road map on soil protection sets out the following objectives: For land use and soil sealing, it is established that in 2020 EU policies will take into account its direct and indirect impact on land use in the Union and in the world, and the land use index will be well directed towards the goal of zero land use by 2050. Soil erosion will have been reduced and its organic content increased, and rehabilitation work on contaminated sites will be on track. This is where the Euskadi soil protection strategy developed by the Department of Environment, Territorial Policy and Housing of the Basque Government is to be developed, incorporating in its elaboration all the bodies and institutions with responsibilities in this area. This strategy must be a qualitative leap in soil protection as a resource. It should be aligned with the guidelines and the European road map, and with an integral conception of its functions which will necessarily require the good cooperation of the administrations involved and coordination with other policies, such as land management, agriculture, protection of water resources, etc. The difficulty and great virtue of this strategy is precisely its transversality, and its success must come from the coordination and collaboration of the competent public bodies, but also from the participation of other public and private actors, such as universities, technological centres, accredited entities in the field of soil protection, business associations, etc. The importance of this task and its complexity calls on the Basque Government, as we have done in the compromise we have signed, to undertake the implementation of the strategy as soon as possible, and that is what we entrust to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u97	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. As the popular party has brought this proposition to a discussion of the whole of the day, I dare say that this proposition forms or rounds a motion which has been discussed for two weeks now. Because between the two teams, in 2015, this Grounder is asked to spread and purge the infected, because it's a matter of total development of the 4/2015 Act. As his name well says, the principal end of this law is received in the first article: Euscal Autonomy is protecting the Esquillian Plant, avoiding the change in man's power. It is our business, therefore, for years, to repair all these damages which man has caused to produce upon the soil, and above all to prevent such a change from happening in the future. I shall not repeat, at least, what has been said two weeks ago in the same parliamentary drawing-room. Because today, at least this isn't what I've understood in the initiative. "Therefore I will not repeat what has been said about unclean lands. But because it's asking you to make a strategy in this law, we'd say, for some natural reasons, in the presence of the damage or change in the land itself. Soil degradation is a degenerative process, which reduces its current and future capacity to continue to perform its functions, and it is obvious that human activity over the years has been a major cause of soil degradation and contamination. And it must also be emphasized – and this was also done in the plenary that I mentioned – that we in Euskadi have been pioneers in the adoption of regulations aimed at preventing and correcting the negative consequences of this activity, mainly pollution. But it is also evident that the soil vary for natural reasons, or loses many properties of its own; for the purchase, the loss of organic matter, the salting, and the floods of lues, have a direct influence on the soil, and may cause degradation. In the fifth supplemented regulations, it remains contained that we are to ask the Eucommy to come and ask him to begin a strategy, to protect, to perpetuate, and to prefer the natural function of the soil to its use. And the purpose of this strategy is to maintain the anbiental, economic, social, scientific, cultural function of the soil in a permanent way. By this strategy, I think it will be a step forward to preserve the soil in an efficient manner. Our team agreed that this regulation received in the law should be developed, and we've agreed to agree with the Socialists and Populars, the Euskion, 2018. To put this strategy in motion for the end of the year, with all the happy departments, or at least with all the departments that have something to say in this matter. And with other institutions, all the necessary resources are directed to this end. And when I say co-ordination with other institutions, I believe that the aldudities, because they have extensive jurisdictions, both in management and management of the natural areas of special protection, and in the management of the forests, and I believe, at least, that this management, at present, is being carefully carried forward. And, well, let's not see on our soil those massacres we've seen a few days ago on Galicia. So now we're asking you for the development of a two-year-old law, I hope, and I'm hoping that you and EH Collect and the Podemos add together to the middle of the three other teams that we've agreed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. A group that hasn't committed any correction together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u99	Well, our group is going to try to make a more or less pedagogical exposition of the position we are going to defend, primarily because we believe that on this issue of soil there is a huge lack of knowledge. If I asked you now how the soil is formed, or what its composition is, surely most of you would not be able to answer. And if I tell them that forming an inch of soil has been a thousand years of evolution, they would surely be surprised. But that's the reality. Soil, as has been said, is a virtually non-renewable resource, which we have to protect yes or yes. Humans know what the anthropogenic functions of the soil are: we use it to support the infrastructures in which we live and move, we use it to extract building materials, and we even use it to know what our past was, through the search for cultural and archaeological remains. But we have a huge ignorance of what the natural functions of the soil are. We hardly know, and Mrs López de Ocariz mentioned earlier, that the soil is like a huge sponge that retains water and avoids rivers and floods, but at the same time serves to filter it and to purify it and take it to the aquifers. The soil regulates the climate, softens the temperature changes and retains the carbon that the plants have fixed. The soil supplies us with food, but it also supplies us with energy through biomass and wood. And the soil, in short, is the habitat of a multitude of living beings. Clean water, food, energy, stable climate... We should conclude that without healthy soils the survival of the human being is compromised. Are you really engaged? Well, the answer is yes. Right now one third of the earth's soils are moderately or severely degraded, and in Africa that percentage is 40%. It is no wonder that without clean water, food and energy, Africa is precisely the continent that is currently having the highest rates of famine, poverty, emigration, etc. The causes of the loss of fertile soil are mainly due to erosion, droughts, rains and fires, and I can assure you that climate change is not going to improve this. There are also causes caused by humans, including intensive agriculture, industrial agriculture. Industrial agriculture causes the nutrients of the soil and the organic matter it contains to be depleted, and causes, through the use of heavy machinery, it to be compacted and, therefore, to lose its qualities. I'll give you an example. In the Spanish state it is the Mediterranean strip that suffers the highest rates of erosion. In the 1970s, most of the fruits and vegetables were produced in what was called the Valencian garden; when those soils were exhausted, in the 1980s the Murcian garden was used; in the 1990s we used the Almerian greenhouses, and in the 2000s we jumped and started producing fruits and vegetables in Morocco. In the 2010s, even if they think it is a lie, they are already growing in the Sahara, even further down, using the relict waters that the Sahara has been hosting for five thousand years. And this is unsustainable. Where are we going in the next decade? Where are we going to produce the food? In Euskadi, too, we have problems. We have erosion problems primarily caused by the mismanagement of our mountains. We are filling our piles of pines and eucalyptus that acidify the soil and make it unviable for any other productive function. And most of our major star crops are causing direct erosion, and I'm referring in Arabic to the vine, and in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa to the txakoli. And we're not doing anything about it, but we could do it. We could do a lot more. We could manage our mountains so that we plant species of slower growth but of higher added timber value. This would lead to a decrease in soil erosion, and at the same time would allow us to have a much more prosperous and more value-added timber sector. And our crops could start using agroecology techniques, which are today's future. Chemical fertilizers are the past, agroecology is the future, and in many territories they are already taking it into account. However, we are not doing so, and, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, we do not have a strategy to go in that direction either. And to have a strategy we would need three fundamental pillars. Firstly, to have human and material resources, and to this day the Vice-Council of the Environment does not have them, as it was evident two weeks ago in this House. Secondly, there would be a need for political impetus, which neither is there, and that is why we should especially thank the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party to bring this issue here so unknown and, therefore, to which we attach so little importance, despite the importance it attaches to human life. And thirdly, we would need something that does not exist in this country today, which is institutional and inter-institutional collaboration. In the area of degraded soils, the Department of Education (for R & D policies), the Department of Agriculture, the Department of the Environment (logically, through URA and Ihobe), the Department of Land Management (to change the territorial management guidelines and preserve the natural agricultural soils that we still have, which are not so many); it would have a Sprilur role, for the recovery of soils for industrial use and not the occupation of agricultural soils that it is doing right now, and would have a role to play in the diputations, for all the competences they have in agriculture. However, we have neither human nor material resources, nor political momentum, nor institutional collaboration. We therefore thank the People's Group for its initiative, and we announce that we are going to give critical support to the compromise that has been made, because what we do demand from the Government and the groups that support it is a greater impetus to protect the soil, to conserve the soil and to be able to bind it to the next generations in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u100	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u101	Yes, thank you. Good noon, second time today. I begin by quoting Rubén Blades in Pedro Navaja's song: "Life gives you surprises, surprises gives you life, oh, God!". Who was going to tell me that, with the one that is falling today, which I believe is the 155th of October, I would congratulate two members of the People's Party from this court! I have done so with Mr Barrio before for this ability to speak without preparing a subject – with obvious irony – but in this case I would like to congratulate very sincerely Mari Carmen López de Ocariz for bringing in, introducing this initiative that urges the Government to implement the proposals of Euskal Herria Bildu. And I'll explain later, but I'll be right back. The 4/2015 Laws, the 25th of June, which had avoided evading the Earth and cleansed the infected ones, if you find out, received from the hand of EH Collect, an amendment written from the hand of the Member Dani Mazetucian. And the amendment said this: that the Government is planning to adopt a strategy for the protection, conservation and restoration of natural and land-use functions that can be degraded as a result of erosion, loss of organic matter, salinization, etc., which is what the People's Party has today taken to bring it as an initiative, and we are very happy about that. 47. In the proposal made to the article, Dani Mazecius proposed that in a year's time the plan of the soil would be admitted, and that this plan would develop a general strategy to protect the soil. So he demanded a year's delay. This was not admitted in the articulate language, but afterwards, as has been said, in two years, it was in the interval of two years that the transition of la discolicion was known as quinta, que que que que se ha ediddo hoy. In short, as you can see, what will be accepted today is for our original thesis. That is to say, a year's time is best, otherwise the government may delay the growth of the law, as it has been before. In short – and I finish – we are very happy that the People's Party assumes Euskal Herria Bildu's ground thesis as its own, and we are also glad that it uses the plenary to carry out our proposals. So obviously we'll vote in favour. In fact, in Euskal Herria Bildu we are supporters of copyleft and creative commons, so we do not intend to collect copyright. Although, yes, it is no more to remind the rest of the groups that if our proposals in the article had come forward, the ones we originally proposed, we would have won a couple of precious years in the care and recovery of our soil. So today's proposal actually includes the elaboration of a strategy, as we asked for in 2015. It will arrive within a year and peak or within a year, with some year of delay, I insist, but in any case, welcome be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u102	Thank you, Mr. Otero. We'll go round the answers, representing the Basque Potion Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u103	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat, to thank you for the support this initiative will have. And, Mr. Otero, you've had almost a year to present an initiative, and I'm sorry. Well, I introduced her. It's okay. The good thing is that this initiative should be speeded up and that the necessary economic and human resources should be provided. Because it is true, and Mr Elkarrekin's spokesman has said, that there are indeed few human resources, and it was also made clear by the vice-counsel in committee. Therefore, what we have done is to incorporate that point into the initiative. You will know that the work of this strategy began in the previous legislature, and that the document stood there in January 2016. Therefore, they started, but for some reason they stood still. So what we've done is take that initiative back. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u104	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Yes, it's your word, Amandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u105	Well, first of all, we've all given our thanks to this subject, we have to protect it, even though it's a critical protection. On this subject, I think we must all be critical, self-critics and critics, so that we can do this. I think we have to be self-critical, we have to be critical and we have to be fine in following up on these issues, because I think we are playing very elementary issues for the future and for the sustainability of all. I therefore appeal to the interinstitutional work, to the work that we can do from this Parliament, to the work that can be done from the Environment Department to make it possible. Well, it won't be easy, but of course I believe that will exists. There are people who think politics is often the art of the impossible. Well, well, today we have achieved the impossible, for Mr Otero and Mrs López de Ocariz to agree. So that too, of course, is a cause for joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, from that point on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u107	As the others have said, I thank you. In the first little speech, I also say, I hope that in the development of the Law unanimously granted, we may all agree. And, well, critics are always allowed, even self-critics are necessary, and as far as the strategy is concerned, we shall be able to share our opinions. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Becerra? No. Not even Otero. All right, all right. Let's play the bell. [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Popular, Eukal Sociists, and the middle-class correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-10-19.u109	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and four in the afternoon.
