ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the nineteenth point has been withdrawn. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Joseba Egibarre Artola Elberta, members of the party, were made to the president, as regards the rating of the first part of the law, as to the performance of the commitments admitted in the government program." Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u1	Good morning, everyone. I'd say we're all here-that is to say, the two parliamentary members of this government that we provide support and protection, and the rest of the team to control and to contradict this kind of conversation. And we all know that the two teams that support the government have not the whole majority, and that there is need for all of us in this Chamber, not in the last six months, but also in the future. A lot of theoreticalizes about the protection of a government and its program to get ahead... A concept was fixed there in the '80s that are called "la del status quo." Some of them were neoliberak, Friedman, and... But the following politicians have brought that concept, and it's said that if a government, a townhouse, does not take it in its first year, the strategic decision, the other three years, it won't have the least chance of deciding the peace and peace of the strategic order in the first year, because otherwise you'll be eaten up by journalism. And I think that we have known this more or less in different councils, or in different institutions. It is not the case today, because if this government has done something in the past six months, it has made decisions and made decisions, not just a walker, a government program, or an strategic plan, or a plan for reviving the economy and building the economy, or the consent of the legislative calendar or budget. All this has been done for the last six months since the government was completed. These are strategic decisions, of course there are others to take. There's also a job in peace. But the main column is on the main road. And nothing to say about the self-engineer, ever since autumn, this Chamber will also be responsible for its own, immutability, responsibility for all this. Then, what I'm asking you for, and what I'm asking the president, is because those decisions are made (the legislation program, the budget, the foundation for 18, you've just accepted), all those plans, even the strategic plans, all of which are approved, a balance, a political balance. It's been six months since we're in the past year of the law, and I think it's good, even for our own peace and our knowledge of opposition, to use these controls for that, even for three years, we'll have a machine to control government activity. We'd like you to know why, as far as our team is concerned, we'd like to remark that for six months it's been the right and right thing to decide so many months. That's why we'd like to have a bullet in all those decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Egibar, yes, in the past three months, the Eucomune has established the foundation of the legislature. It's true, what we've done in a very short time. Thanks to this job, we've made strategic decisions, we've got a government program we're talking about today. We've accepted 15 strategic plans, we're running for jobs and economy recovery, we've accepted the legislation program, we've accepted the 2017 Prest, and we've accepted and presented the main points of 2018 budget. In a manner of Balanty, I should say, in a very short time, that the government should run together, and that in these six months, we are conducting the precise program of public assistance: Eplea, on the axis of the economy and the endurance of the economy, we have determined 385 million euros; and human development, on the axis of culture and society, is 165 million euros. That's a total of 540 million euros already approved. We have therefore adopted specific public support programmes, beyond strategic plans, beyond the legislative programme, beyond the approved budget bill, beyond the economic and budgetary guidelines for next year. We have approved, as I say, specific public support programmes valued at EUR 540 million. In the area of employment, reactivation and sustainability with these aid programmes, companies with employment-generating investments in Margen Izquierda and Oarsoaldea, training of unemployed people, young jobs, investment aid, aid for internationalisation and innovation, agricultural development, tourism development, or projects for action on contaminated soils, climate change and biodiversity. In the area of human development, cultural and social integration, we have approved programmes for humanitarian action and emergency care, free access to justice, activities of the third sector, support for families and reconciliation, provision of the social services fund, cultural production in the plastic arts, visual arts, theatre and dance, or promotion of the use of Basque. Regarding the infrastructure of the country, investments in the University Hospital of Araba and the Hospital of Urduliz, 40 million more in the plan of educational infrastructures, Mikaela Portilla Research Center in Social Sciences, BERC Achucarro in Neurosciences, or Bioaraba in health research, approval of the canon of capitality to act in twenty projects in Vitoria-Gasteiz. These are examples of specific support programmes, reflecting government activity in response to the needs of citizens. To continue with the areas and axes of action, in the area of coexistence and human rights, I would stress that on 10 March we celebrated the European Day of Victims of Terrorism, and on 3 April we adopted the declaration of support for refugees, both with the participation of all parliamentary groups, institutions and many representatives of Basque society. They are examples of progress in the normalization of coexistence. We have opened a new call for aid in the area of development cooperation, increasing budget allocations. So, in this area, we've presented a new plan of 2020 memberships and Human Rights, and we've planned our plan of the Institute. In the course of these months, it may also be remarked that the total, legal, and unconditional weapon of both sexes is abolished. And in conclusion, as far as auto-gourage is concerned, we have agreed with the Spanish Government: the chute, the edge, the high-speed train and the left-hand cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors are made for Cultura and the head of the political series of language, as regards the use of the eucassion of EIB." Mrs. Aguirre, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u5	Good morning, everyone. The EIB style book had the criterion in which the eIB style expression should be grafted on the news with the agreement of directors and editors. Now the management has decided to change this criterion, and has not the consent of the editorial councils. We believe that this new criterion does not support the normalization of the cradle. Our question is why this change of criteria and how this change is founded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zingia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, fellow governments. The book of style made public is the result of many people's work. It's a proposal based on a team of professors from the Basque State University that he's hired against professionals and editors of the EIB and finally approved by EITB's direction and made public. In writing to you, at least, that was the way it appeared, in order to normalize the presence of the eucalyptic, where the criteria of the "Eternal style" should be useful, and I answer that they will be. The style of the book illustrates its criteria, and openly confesses that the presence of the euphora, normalization, and prestige are the end of it. And by the knowledge of the EIB manager and the profession of professionals working in EIB, and the manner in which they work, I have no reason to think there might be a step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u9	You say the management will do for it. But the management is represented by the professional DIVERTASE, who, without the consent of his professionals, has now received a sentence which is greatly troubled with this book of style, and says: 'The sea will be visible on the news, except always at the expense of the audience.' So the language criteria will be given to the audience at EIB. And we ask: What audience is that? For instance, this management of yours said in 2015, "according to the quantum reports and journals of which you have mentioned, the Essquila hearing sees with the eye a window opening in Spanish chains." The truth is, we've never seen these research before. Now, what research will it be based on to change the criteria? Will we ever see these new investigations? The only objective data that we have is that more and more people understand in the cradle. And yet, if the audience were to descend by the eucalyptus, how much would the audience descend? 0.2? 0.4? Would it justify this if you didn't hold out for EIB? Is that what makes EIB justified in resisting the law of generation? And the audience, it's true, is going down on the news. But is that the fault of euphora? Or is it not the fault of quality? For example, I don't know, I feel like I don't see her in front of me on a news, and it's nothing personal, but for example, the Chief of Hostage shows up three times? Is that what's wrong with hearing? He moderated that, what harm does the management do to him? Is there gonna be a ratio in the style book that's got it on TV? I don't know. Is there a problem with that? And you're trying to convince us that it's because of the eucalyp. We were once convinced that quantum physics could not be studied until it was made. Now, you're trying to convince us that no audience can get an audience on account of the eucalyptus, and we'll have to show that this is not the case. But EIB is in your hands, and you're talking about an audience, but you can't hear it. You didn't hear what the Euskaza radio and the EIB reports say. "You have not heard of the professionals of EITB, who [are] every day in the street; you have not heard [them,] nor have you heard [them.] Please take care to do good news, quality, attractive programming, and listen, for once, to listen to us. Let us make EITB, which shall be among us all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u11	My colleague Aguirre, I came to talk to you about the presence of the eucalyptus, and I will tell you about it. And I think we can talk a lot about this subject, and then we can talk it over. We both worked at EIB and I think we both know how much we talked about this matter and EIB and both out there. It is possible, and it may be allowed, to have different views on this subject. But I think that the different points of view do not necessarily require to see cunning in the conduct of the other, or to wish to see bad intentions. So I have no reason to see him like that. And what does EITB's director's style book say about this subject? I think it will be plain, for instance, that in the case of children, teenagers, and young men, the eucalyptic witnesses will be preferred to the EIB media. Or when he says, "In the case of Poles, artists, sports, experts, and known faces, to be able to talk about the support of the media, he can give the language a prestige, and he intends to encourage it." And I also think that there is reality for it. Fortunately, and happily for the sake of the eucatitude, the Sociolinguistic reality of 2017 has nothing to do with what we had in 1983. The knowledge of language has been enlarged, and new generations of euphorium have come to the Place. And in the market-place, the chances of equivalence are broader and more numerous than before. The parliamentary, I believe, is a clear window of it, which has a direct influence on every area, even on the young media of EIB, and its presence. In these past years, I have been interviewing several times in the EIB media, and I have always seen a clear way in the direction of the professionals of the EIB. When they want my expressions, we've always had the first contact. I've made the first statement to make, and then they've asked me what I said about eucalyptic, which I meant in Spanish. The practice of professional EIB professionals has therefore been clear, and mine has always been the last word and final decision. I think the criteria are therefore fixed. I think it is also plain, that the end of these opinions is ours, and that it is ours, that we make expressions and appearances, that is our choice and determination. The language of the person to whom EIB should make expressions has been set before him: It's interviewed, not EITB, and not EIB's professional interviewer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Herández Hidalez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made to the president about Ceel Technologies and Systems." Mr. Hernandez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u13	Bai, Urkullu jauna, I suppose you know the situation of the business group Cel Technologies and Systems, a business group that is currently going through a very complicated situation, a business group that belongs to our paper industry, in which more than 300 workers work, and in which, to our mind, your Government has some responsibility for the future of the situation of these workers. The government, the Basque Government, through the venture capital management company, indirectly controlled 40% of the shares of this business group. On 26 May, the company's management reportedly informed the representatives of the workers who had submitted to the court a pre-competition of creditors, and also asked them nothing more and nothing less than a 20 % wage reduction. Subsequently, on 7 June, several work centres were found to have been cut off from electricity. In addition, today we were told by the workers who abruptly cut off their electricity, which could have had serious consequences, because they work there with machinery. A cut in electricity, according to the workers' representation, results from the decision of the group's management to stop paying the bills for the light since January. And also on 26 May, without notice, they had been told that the main shareholders of the group – among them, as I said, the Basque government – abandoned the shares, sold the shares of the group. In our view, there is a direct responsibility of the Basque Government in the situation of this company and the future of jobs, which is what we are particularly concerned about. And we know that the Basque Government has sufficient and necessary tools to ensure the continuity of this group, which is also profitable. That is why our question is what concrete and urgent steps the Basque Government intends to take to safeguard jobs in this business group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, and to the public and also to the workers of the Cel group present, and to whom I greet, it should be made clear that maintaining the activity and saving the jobs has been a permanent commitment of the Basque Government since 2011, when the company Kimberly-Clark was shut down. SPRI sought solutions for the company's continuity through the entry of local investors. 170 jobs were at stake at the time. The objective is achieved, and the new company Cel is created, with a capital of 4,000 euros, of which 1,600 correspond not to the company, but to the public venture capital fund Ezten. In addition, this fund provides a participatory loan of EUR 2.5 million. From the first moment, therefore, it is clear that Ezten's participation is temporary and short-term (from the first moment), not structural. Its departure is established from the first moment to 2014, via option of purchase by the majority partners; situation that has happened this same year by the one who held 45%, with the Indarkia fund. Between 2011 and 2017 the company evolves with many difficulties. It acquires the company Virtisú, which in competition of creditors and with 90 workers joins Cel. Cel's accounts for the period 2012-2016 are negative, and reveal a structural problem. His difficulties have worsened this year 2017. Today there is no public participation in the company's capital. However, a loan of EUR 2 million from Ezten is still alive. It has been innovative on several occasions to help maintain the business's activity and employment, as an example of the commitment also of the public fund of which the Government participates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u17	Thank you. Well, I understand that to the question of what concrete and urgent measures you are going to take to safeguard jobs you are answering me that nothing, or that, of course, nothing new. I believe that the situation of this group in which the Basque Government had invested through that society is sufficient reason for the Government to rethink what it is going to do at a difficult time, when the 300 jobs are in real danger. Or you simply tell us what happened, what was the forecast of what you were going to do, you abandon that, you are no longer, and then it gives you exactly what happens with these three hundred jobs, of a business group in which the Basque Government invested public money, greater or lesser. It seems to us and you know perfectly well that this government has sufficient and necessary tools to make this company viable and to save the 300 jobs. The company has billed positively, with profits, in the year 2014 and in 2016, it has increased the billing from 45 million to 65 million, and has in the first trimester of this year a billing of 17 million euros. The workers are absolutely convinced that the company is viable if the Basque Government commits itself. The Basque Government has tools to commit, and it has responsibility for the future of the company in recent years, because it has been part of its leadership. Therefore, it seems to us that the Basque Government cannot look elsewhere and must be involved in resolving this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernandez, I believe that in my first speech I have explained myself sufficiently as to what was the purpose and fate of events in the Group of the European People's Party. Look, all channels of support for the production activity and industry of the Basque Government are at the company's disposal. All of them. However, it is up to Cel's partners to launch new actions, make investments and make economic contributions. And it is no longer a matter of discussing a model of corporate publishing. No, it's not about that anymore, Mr. Hernandez. You know that European law and state law prevent us from going beyond where we have gone as a government. The partners of Cel have the guarantee that the Basque Government will renew the participative loan through Ezten, despite all that has been said in my first intervention, and in this way the company can take the necessary measures to maintain activity and employment. Our contribution to this goal is full. Fill it up. The government cannot guarantee the viability of each company in an open market; however, there are numerous examples – and this is also useful for Cel – there are numerous examples in which partners and workers have taken the company forward, and in this endeavour the government has always been and will be at its side. Vasco Government, Bizkaia Provincial Council and affected municipalities will continue to work on the thrust of regional development plans, with the aim of boosting economic activity and generating employment opportunities. So we are also insisting on the area of Enkarterriak. We have always been aware of the situation faced by Enkarterriak, and this is demonstrated by the actions we have developed, the impetus of specific plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Constunam, to the merchant-sector." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Councilman, commercial activity is undoubtedly relevant in terms of creating wealth and employment, and the Basque commercial sector is facing profound structural changes, with the main challenge of accommodating itself to the new buying habits of consumers. And trade in Euskadi continues to make progress in globalization, and local trade must therefore have its competitiveness and strengthening tools defined. And Basque retailing brings added value, and it also helps to boost and give life to urban environments. In addition, it highlights factors such as prestige, the history of commercial activity, differentiated attention, product knowledge and the maintenance of a loyalised clientele. And, although these aspects are very relevant, however, they often clash with going beyond the existing demand, with reinventing itself as a company, with innovation, etc. Something that, however, is necessary to face profound structural changes in commercial activity. And in the government agreement the Basque Socialists have committed themselves to supporting local trade as a fundamental element for the consolidation of employment and the dynamism of our peoples and our cities. And the Basque socialists have always been busy and concerned about driving the Basque trade model decisively, and we intend to achieve a trade that is not only efficient but competitive, but also developed. In short, a sector with a variety of business formats, adapted to the needs of consumers. A balanced format in its diversity, balanced in its distribution, territorial accessibility, and contributing to urban cohesion and the attractiveness of our towns and cities in Euskadi. Consolidating, as an important element, professionalized employment. And the Basque Socialists believe it is necessary to make known the tools that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs that you lead puts at your disposal to achieve the objective of supporting local trade, the boost of their competitiveness for the consolidation of employment and the economic dynamism of towns and cities, as well as to efficiently manage urban spaces. We were asking you, Mr. Counsellor, whether you are planning any kind of aid for the Euskadi municipalities and merchant associations for the improvement of the Basque commercial fabric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u23	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Thank you very much, Mrs. Corcuera. I thank you for your interest, and I agree with your analysis of the commercial sector in Euskadi. I explain to you what time we are at, and what actions we are going to develop or are developing to boost innovation and the competitiveness of trade, in particular by referring to the Hirigune programme. The objective of this programme is to enhance business cooperation, prioritizing a growing relationship between companies and organizations, as we understand that strengthening of associations facilitates innovation and the incorporation of new technologies, increasing productivity and efficiency in the sector. In the Euskadi 2020 government programme, under the heading "A solid growth with more and better jobs", and under the heading "Promotion of tourism, local trade and responsible consumption", there is commitment number 31, which says: "Promoting the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector". Initiatives of this commitment include supporting local trade and promoting its competitiveness, as a key element for the consolidation of employment and the dynamism of towns and cities, and efficient management of urban areas. To materialize these objectives, it is essential to support mechanisms of public-private collaboration, promoting actions of sectoral and zonal cooperation within the municipal environment itself, improving the positioning of our companies. In view of this 2017 exercise we introduced in the Hirigune program important regulatory changes, which should serve to improve the experience gathered in previous exercises. It highlights the inclusion of a new type of beneficiary for the actions to be carried out by the municipalities, namely those with more than 10,000 inhabitants, more than 100 commercial establishments, and an unemployment rate higher than the average in the Autonomous Community. These municipalities may apply for aid for the preparation of strategic plans, because it is intended to provide a tool to support and assist the development of actions that can generate economic activity and, therefore, employment in those municipalities with an entity sufficient to use as a support for a study of the characteristics of a strategic plan. On the other hand, we have changed the minimum content that must be collected from the preparation of studies and strategic plans, updating them to the current needs. To this end, opinions have been contrasted with relevant experts from various companies in the Basque Autonomous Community. And the aid is expanded, including or modifying some of the assets that were considered eligible so far. Thus, the permanent infrastructures for the realization of events related to the commercial activity are included, as the potential beneficiaries transferred this need to us. On the other hand, financing in commercial signage, including shopping tourism, is expanded in an effort to maintain and promote the interrelationship between commercial and tourist activity in the municipalities. We have believed that one of the best options for optimizing the public resources we use has been to adapt the programme for the promotion of activities that attract the population to adequate and attractive spaces for the development of commercial activity and that it is also able to retain it. Our policies must be geared towards the generation of wealth and the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, all in a scenario such as the current one, increasingly competitive and professionalized, with important changes in consumption patterns, and in which excellence and quality in the product and service are increasingly determining in the choice of purchase and, therefore, in the achievement of results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u24	Thank you, chief physician. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team for the president, the president of Carles Puigdemont Generality." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. On Monday you visited Catalonia (there was a reason), and also held an interview with the president of the Generalitat (also that goes into the normal and the usual). At the end of the conference, a statement was issued. They had a long meeting; that has been interpreted as a gesture of support for President Puigdemont and, of course, also the consequence is that to the process he leads. It is true that President Puigdemont has few friends in Spain and also in Europe, in the rest of the world, and has a certain tendency to unfortunate statements, but I am not going to go into that because neither can you be blamed. The next day Mr Erkoreka, in an exercise that I would call "a step forward, a step backwards, and all happy", has already clarified that we do not share from the Basque Country and does not share the Government's strategy of the Catalonian Generalitat and the strategy of Puigdemont; a unilateral strategy, which is leading to a train crash and a confrontation that takes away the possibilities of dialogue. I therefore ask you, and it is reasonable for you to be able to clarify here today, whether you agree more with yourself on Monday or with Mr Erkoreka on Tuesday. What's the position? If both are compatible, if we're going to warm up or cool down. It seems to me that it is important that you clarify it. I put it to you in good time, and I have no intention of losing confidence in the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I started with a question of strict institutional courtesy, and there was indeed reason: I went to Barcelona on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the Hipercor attack. And I had, yes, a meeting with President Puigdemont, in the same way that, for example, it had been held – not to mention other examples – by the Attorney General of the State, who met with the President of the Generalitat. Therefore, despite what you have also said in previous days, I do not think that this visit by the prosecutor was a mistake, as it has also been interpreted that mine was a mistake. Look, the assessment of the meeting is positive, because it has allowed us a more complete knowledge of the political and institutional situation in Catalonia, in Basque Country, in the State and in Europe, also for sharing views. We advocate the institutionalization of the right of citizenship to be consulted in a legal and agreed manner on its future, combining the democratic principle and the principle of legality. And I say that from that meeting too..., I insist that legality is not immutable, it must serve to solve political and social problems. Because if legality becomes a corset that stifles democratic aspirations, it does not serve to solve the problems of nations and peoples, and that is why it needs to be changed and adapted. We share the need for a dialogue process for a reformulation of the State that responds to the various national realities. We are aware of the need to advance in self-government, each from its national reality and its own and differentiated political and institutional situation. A meeting to maintain political dialogue is never a mistake. Dialogue is the essence of politics, and we share in that meeting the need to preserve dialogue. And we will do what is in our hand to achieve it from mutual respect. The desire for dialogue implies not putting the target of arrival as a condition of departure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. You reassure me of something. Not at all, but I actually see a much more nuanced line. When you really read the statement, you say things that sound a little picturesque. The will of both governments to deepen self-government is very good, but Mr Puigdemont wants to make a referendum of self-determination to declare independence, which does not seem to be deepening self-government, but to destroy it. And as for the reflection you make that the law is a corset, I want to say that the law aims to protect the rights of citizens, who are free and equal and who form a nation of citizens, that is what we are defending from the constitutional sphere. So, of course, considering that it can break is like... I will give you an example (it may seem much lower to you): Imagine that Bizkaia stands as a nation, which we have already heard in ancient times, and decides to separate itself from the autonomous community. Man, we would have to say Alaves and Gipuzcoans about the future of our own community, the future of our nation! And, therefore, these are the terms in which, in strict respect for citizens' rights, we can face dialogue. The dialogue in this legislature, in these six months, which you have glossed out as the most important in the life of Euskadi, in very laudable terms by the spokesman of your group, the dialogue is being very fruitful. Dialogue is bringing peace and quiet. There is a moderate majority, in which you are supporting government action in this House. I ask you to remain in the support and support of that majority of moderation, because that is what Basque society demands: that you seek stability, that you seek cross-cutting agreements between people who feel and think differently; that you continue in the line of collaboration with the Government of Spain, which has also translated into agreements that have historical scope, and that you understand that we, who also want to follow in this task of collaboration and understanding, will not be able to follow you if you embark on a path of radicality, confrontation or rupture like the one that you follow in Catalonia. Don't follow the path to Catalonia. I trust that you do not want to go there, but if radical proposals are supported, you will be hanged by radical forces. This has been done by some in Catalonia: they have destroyed their party, divided society, abandoned government responsibility, led to financial bankruptcy in their community, and therefore the only thing they have produced is confrontation, pain and sterility. Follow the path that he has gone through these months, and he will continue to have our support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I like to do politics from the beginning of realism, from the beginning also of what is beneficial for society as a whole. And for the benefit of society as a whole I ask you: Are the laws immutable? Can't laws be changed, when there is a majority of society that aspires that laws also change to meet their own needs? Look, I believe that in this matter the Spanish Government should postpone this issue, which could and should take three concrete steps: First, the Spanish Government has to come out of its stillness and recognize the existence of a conflict between the majority social wills which, as regards its national project, manifest themselves in a divergent way in Catalonia, in Euskadi and in the rest of the Spanish State. Secondly, the Spanish Government and the People's Party should assume their responsibility, yes, their responsibility, because this issue also began with the collection of signatures, among other reasons, with the collection of signatures against the Statue. And now they must reorient their strategy and shift the conflict from the framework of agonistic confrontation to a framework of political and institutional dialogue, Mr Alonso. And, third, the Spanish Government should address the territorial conflict; take advantage of the political dialogue forums to seek solutions, to reconcile and confederate democratically the majority aspirations of Spanish, Catalan and Basque societies. We owe ourselves to a principle of responsibility. We have a strategic challenge: to avoid any form of social or political fracture, to promote inclusive democratic solutions and bilateral agreements. I will do everything in my power to promote this strategic change in the state, because with will the agreement is always possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, the US Attorney of the Basque Company, a member of the Basque Society, a relation to the President, the Eucharist Cyberecurity Center, and the International Cybersegation Center of the Giant Forpu. " Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u33	Egun where you're going. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. There are management misconceptions that are coming, and that if they are not confronted and not corrected, then they become a double misconception. First, because the misconception materializes, and second, because no one has done anything to avoid it. As you know, from the beginning of this legislature in the foral territory, after the last municipal and foral elections and once the foral legislature began to walk, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation launched an idea, understanding that the Gipuzkoan business ecosystem favored and allowed, in addition to claiming, that it could exist in the historical territory of Gipuzkoa – with a broader vocation, but located in Gipuzkoa – a center of cybersecurity. A cybersecurity centre that responds to a real threat that is already occurring in the Western and non-Western world, and that provides, among other things, security for small and medium-sized enterprises, understanding that large ones already have sufficient mechanisms, not likely enough, but have response mechanisms. And it seemed reasonable that the public body, in this case the outlaw parliament, would offer through that service a necessary protection. On this they were working over two years, and just a few days ago, just coinciding with the fact that the outlaw deputy of the branch announces the details or advances details of this cybersecurity center, coinciding with the same day, the Basque Government also announces the creation of another cybersecurity center of similar circumstances in Álava. Some have raised these two centres as a matter of territorial shock. This is not the case with whom you speak, Mr Lehendakari, regardless of whether you may have my opinion. We're not talking about fighting between territories. What we are talking about and what we want to ask you today is about the rational and sensible use of public money. How is it possible that in the same territory as ours, of a dimension that you all know, with a certain potentiality, there will, apparently, from autumn onwards, be two public centers dedicated exactly to the same thing, and also when you have not even agreed or spoken, or tried to converge the two institutions? We are announced that the center of cybersecurity promoted by the Basque government will cost around 1.5 million euros a year; that of the Foral Diputación de Gipuzkoa, half a million... I mean, Mr Lehendakari, this is a bit of a misconception, and we'd like to know what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, from the respect for the purposes of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, aimed at the Gipuzcoan companies, I have to say that the commitment to create a cybersecurity centre is reflected in our government program, and it is also not new, starting from the past legislature. The digitisation of companies, advanced manufacturing, the interconnection between people and machines, bring competitive advantages, but incorporate a novel risk. And that is what we have already looked at in the past parliamentary term: massive computer attacks, as we have seen recently. And facing this new reality is the goal of the Basque Cybersecurity Center, a specific unit within SPRI. This centre incorporates the field of industrial cybersecurity (link to Ertzaintza), coordination of Euskadi critical infrastructures included in the API Zeus programme, liaison with the company EJIE, which is responsible for the internal IT security of the public administration. The councillor has informed institutions and companies during the maturity phase of the project, as well as the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, always from an open and constructive attitude. It was the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council that expressed its intention to set up its own centre to respond specifically to the needs of the local companies. This situation I understand you don't have to assume duplicity or overlap. We do not propose competition between centres, but coordination and collaboration, because our goal – at least that of the Basque Government – is to add. And the decision of the location of the center is not so much whether Araba or Gipuzkoa, as you have said. Gipuzkoa said "Araba"... No; the Basque Government's cybersecurity centre is for Euskadi, wherever it is. And the decision on the location of the center in this case has been based on an objective report, after analyzing the alternatives of the three technological parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u37	I disagree, Mr. Lehendakari. I think there is a overlap and there is a duplicity. It is that throughout the last parliamentary term in this House we have debated a lot about duplicities, about the need to rationalize public spending, to order public investment in infrastructure, that the fact of our territorial singularity, which is based on the identity of three historical territories with its own particularities, is compatible with the management of a general government, which you represent... That this should not be a problem, unless politicians do their job wrong and turn it into a problem of duplicity. And this is an obvious duplicity, Mr Lehendakari, and we cannot make our institutional framework a problem. Look, Gipuzkoa's outlaw deputy was asked about this subject in a newspaper, and the journalist asked: "How can two cybersecurity centres be announced in a country of just over 2 million people?". And she replied: "Everyone has followed his model, and let each one draw his conclusions. If there are going to be two centers, it's because we haven't come to an understanding yet. Then there can be a complementarity? Well, we'll see." This is not reasonable, Mr Lehendakari. We ask you to act. Hey, maybe it's all more complicated than it looks, but I invite you and ask you to call the outlaw deputy of Gipuzkoa and say, "Hey, Markel, let's talk. Let's put some common sense into this! We are going to avoid more spending, we are going to avoid duplication, we are going to make a good center for the whole of Euskadi, for our companies and for our institutions, which responds to a real threat. We're not going to hit each other..."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Semper, and what do you say to me, when I'm looking through the three territories! Look, you can defend that logically it would have been a single center, and I ask you, who knows? Because the world of cybersecurity is being born and growing at a dizzying speed, and not just from public centers. The Basque Government is going to set up a service centre for the whole of Euskadi, for all the territories. A centre open to collaboration and interconnection with similar ones, both public and private, that exist or will be launched in the future. The key to success is being networked with everyone else. Look, we express our open willingness to work in a complementary way with Gipuzkoa and the other territories to provide better cybersecurity service. This is our vocation and our desire, Mr Semper: Auzolana, doors open to institutional collaboration, and also to public-private collaboration, in this area and in all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the subject's list, "To ask the Forest House and the Congressmen of the Levant, the president, the Alardarians on the invitation made by the team." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u41	Good morning. This letter was received by all the members of the legislature. Alarde, who organizes the public adage of Irungo, invited us with a clear invitation: To protect your partner at the Irun parties this year. That's why we were invited to the balcony of the City Hall of Irun. The question is clear: Are you going near there, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, I'm sure we're going to start with our friend, who's good-lookin' at me. I would like to confirm it even today, and I must say that the Government which I represent every year, or which I represent, will have its representation there. It's the presidency high school. So, my superior representative in this field. So far he's been representing us all the time in the company. Even this year, the editor of the results will be there, and by this representation, as well as every year, we openly declare that it is possible to develop a pair of fellow-at-arms into normality. I repeat: We're looking at a couple of people who like to see if I'm there or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u45	To see him in good sight, I invite you to see him directly, to see what happens there directly. We know that Ms. Landida and so many of the members who have participated in the Election are present. The interrogator was also present, and he said, "That the President would be a good step forward." And we ask again where are you going to be, Mr. Urkullu, partying every year for your peers, and fighting with them at the same time or with others? We are now in the year 2017, the law of equality in force, the Election, the same net, the fear of the schools, the units of equality in most townships, and of course because it is not in Irun and waste. What we have in Irun and sandland is an alardae. Bi alarde: 2017. they are attacked and refused for the sake of taking part in men at the public feasts of the year. In Irun and sandbi, 2017. In Irun and sandland we have the mayor of PNV and the mayor of PSE, who receive a local festival, and in the year 2017 we have the mayors of Irun and sand, PNV and PSE, who don't receive a partner. That's why, I repeat, it's very important that you're in there. And you, too, who have been excluded for 20 years by the popular festivals in front of men, because they continue to reject them, because they continue to ignore them institutionally, because the councils reject them. Twenty years later, if it's too late, the president would be very good news. Because, physically, you're on that balcony, because when you get reception, you let people know who you're with, and people ask for that. We know that the art and the gift are there, and we are glad and grateful for the work they have done, and we can't refuse the demands, and we're grateful to be there. Look at Donostia, Andoin, Abiola, Aiginaga, dancing, village processions, village processions, the women and men, in equality, because they are united together by institutions and associations. Mr. Urkullu, we must face all of us. Make sure we're here, we're with who we are and what we're doing, because more than 20 years have passed. Is this institutional dismemberment performed in the name of co-operation, is it co-operation that women and men don't receive official welcome from each other? Because they don't get it yet. Is it co-existing with the official reception of those women who don't play at all? Because it's still doing it. Where is the ethical ground? Mr. Urkullu, you still have time. Really, a week after the invitation and coming to Irun. Because your involvement will be a small issue to pass the Euscal Autonomia Esquire to the fourth position of the land of equality, because it is necessary that this problem should come to an end and join the union party. You will be waiting for us on the balcony of the Town Hall of Iruno to share beautiful experiences, to put a seed into the struggle for equality, and to feel that you are where you belong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, you'll see where I'll be, and I'll be where I belong. Who I'm with, you heard. To advance on equality is in our program of government, it is our commitment, and we develop a great number of initiatives during the legislation to guarantee equality. We are clear that we must find a solution in the case of the alders, but the remedy will come by the hands of the builders and the honest ones, and must be there. Without interviews, it'll be difficult to get a permanent solution. He's trying to get us to talk and understand each other inside our Masters. It'll be years' work, but we won't give up. The goal is equality, which really deserves a try. But today I want to emphasise the positive side, and I want to do it in the line of what you're saying or what you're saying. In many countries, with the assistance of the people, they are making steps to adjust traditions. For in our society we have already understood that tradition adapts these traditions in length to strengthen them. We have to go on working in that pedagogical Illo and we'll go on. A permanent solution won't come from innocent issues. Yes, on the other hand, from the agreement of the various parts involved. I repeat the conversation of these different aspects from decency and respect and listening to one another. This town, this Eukong and I are engaged with the equality of women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemus team made for environmental, Planting, and Housing Company, for the purpose of designing the Eukas Air Quality Network, and applying information to the manual administration protocols." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mr Arriola, last Tuesday I think it was, you presented the study "Attitudes of citizenship towards the environment", carried out by the Office of Sociological Prospects, in which the citizen's perception of different issues related to the environment was analyzed. The results of this study included that the first concern of people with regard to the environment is about the pollution of cars and other transport vehicles. And in addition – I mean at the municipal level – the top five included pollution in general, factory pollution and air pollution. This means that, of the five main problems that people perceive at the municipal level with regard to the environment, four of them have to do with air pollution. When asked about the same perception of problems at the Euskadi level, the result was repeated: four of the top five problems had to do with air quality. And when asked about their perception worldwide exactly the same: four of the top five, related to air quality. Of course, these results on people's concerns clearly contrast with the government's attitude to air quality in Euskadi. You, your department, in December last year published a note saying, when there were serious pollution problems in Madrid, that in Euskadi air quality met the required limits. Of course, from the Elkarrekin group We can generate that somehow... well, it makes us curious whether it is the people who are wrong, or the government who is wrong. That is why we asked them last January about the management of the Euskadi air quality network. On the one hand we asked them about how they quantified and placed the air quality, measuring stations, and then we asked them what they were doing with the results they were getting. The object of this inquiry is in reference to this second question, that is, what is being done with the results of the measurement of air quality in Euskadi. And the question we'd have to ask here would be what we want that data for. Because, well, when in most of the government's communications, as I said... last December, you were taking out a press release saying that air pollution respects the legal limits, it meets the legal limits. And, well, I understand that for people that's an obvious thing. That is what the Government is for, so that the legal limits are met. What we believe from Elkarrekin Podemos is that people are worried about something else. People are concerned about how air pollution can affect their health; pollution in general, but air pollution in a specific way. Because in the same study that you presented this week, that of attitudes of citizens towards the environment, people considered that air pollution, on a scale of 1 to 10, was of an importance of 8.9, only surpassed by water pollution. I mean, people worry about the quality of the air they breathe. So the answer to the question I asked you, what we want the data for, the answer seems obvious: to see if the pollution limits are affecting our health or not. And what people want to know is what the administrations are going to do with the data collected by the air quality network, how those data are going to be used to protect their health. As is happening right now, for example, in Madrid or other large cities, where administrations, when they have data that certain values are exceeded, act. And this is where we see that the response of the Basque government and administrations is starting to slow down, because if we look at air quality regulations there are three types of limits. One is the limit value, which you usually use to make reports and press releases saying that everything is right. The limit value is a value, a limit, a level set for a given period, which can either be hourly or may be daily or annual. It is a limit which must not be exceeded once reached, but which poses a medium-term risk. If you get over it on time, there's nothing wrong. That is the one that is usually respected in Euskadi. But there are two other limits. One is the so-called information threshold. This is a level of contamination from which short-term exposure poses a risk to the human health of those particularly vulnerable populations, people with respiratory problems, asthma, inadequacies, etc. And the regulations say that when this information threshold is exceeded, the competent administrations must provide immediate and appropriate information (and so says the regulations). And then we have a third level, which is the alert threshold, which is the level from which a short-term exposure already poses a risk to human health for the entire population, and this level requires immediate action by administrations. It is no longer just worth reporting, but immediate action must be taken. Well, the information and alert thresholds, which are, as I say, levels of pollution that pose a short-term risk, are the ones that are motivating traffic restrictions, for example, in other cities such as Madrid or Paris. So, they are limits that are measured in a very short time level, in hourly levels. And what the regulations say is that when the information threshold, or the alert threshold, is well exceeded, the competent administrations will take the necessary emergency measures and inform the population by radio, television, press or internet of the levels recorded or planned and of the measures to be taken. So, Elkarrekin Podemos was worried about what the administrations are doing. Because, of course, the adoption of measures, as well as the provision of information, depend primarily on the municipalities. Then we asked questions in the main Basque municipalities (the three capitals and Barakaldo), and the answer has certainly been troubling: none of these four municipalities has a protocol right now neither information nor action in the event that the alert threshold nor the information threshold is exceeded. We also ask you what you were doing with the data, and you hang the data you measure, hang them on the website. Some response from the municipalities has been: "Well, they're already on the website." It's obvious that people aren't going to be looking on the website to see if they're going to drown or choke, but, well, they're on the website. You have told us in writing that these data, in addition to hanging them on the website, are provided to SOS Deiak in the event of an incident. But, of course, what does SOS Deiak do with that information? When it is passed on to the affected municipalities, which are the ones who have to take the measures, we find that the municipalities have no protocol, they do not know what to do. Some city council has even said that it is up to the Basque Government to do so under the protocol, thus even ignoring the law. So, on the one hand, we are concerned about this issue, but on the other hand, we are concerned about another, which is also important, and it is not to be confused with not exceeding the legal limits, which is right for itself, with the goal, which would be desirable, of ensuring that the levels of air pollution are low enough to be safe for people's health. Because the World Health Organization itself believes that air pollution below legal limits is also harmful to health, and there are many studies that confirm this. I have here, for example, a fact about 300,000 people throughout the European Union, where it was said that exposure even below the limit values defined by the European Union increases the risk of lung cancer. Therefore, with air pollution we have a problem, and that is that there are no safe levels. There are no safe levels. And, therefore, to launch the information that as we are below legal levels there is no longer any problem in some way is wrong. That is why the World Health Organization states that its air quality guidelines are much more restrictive than the legal limits that, for example, Spain or the European Union have. And a report by Ecologists in Action on state air quality in 2015 says regarding Euskadi that particulate pollution mainly affects industrial areas of the upper and lower Nervión, Ibaizabal, Alto Deba and Goierri, in addition to the three capitals. This report also states that the average daily or annual value recommended by the World Health Organization is exceeded. That is to say, in view of the information provided by the Government that we do not exceed the legal limits, which is true, we have the other information that we are exceeding the limits set by the World Health Organization. We therefore believe it is important for your department to establish a line of work with the Department of Health, to provide you with the same data as you measure and hang on the website, aimed at analysing where and when these World Health Organization-marked limits are being exceeded and to make improvement plans to overcome these situations. Therefore, in summary of this inquiry, we believe that the Government's action can be improved in two ways: one, in improving the coordination of action with all administrations to implement improvement plans, and, two, with the Department of Health to see how the World Health Organization's limits are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Your time is up. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u51	Thank you, President. Mr Becerra, you are asking me about the criteria of design, in principle, of air quality in Euskadi, and I will tell you. As you know, the current network is a consequence of a historical process. The first automatic network was installed in Euskadi in the Great Bilbao area in the year 75. High concentrations of sulphur dioxide were then produced in this area. And the network was assumed by the Basque Government in 1981 and extended to all the territories that make up Euskadi, following the criteria established by the various European directives. Those currently in force are those set out in Royal Decree 102/2011, which transposed Directive 208/50, air quality and a cleaner atmosphere. The location of the measuring points is due to the better identification of pollutants from a double point of view, protecting human health and the environment. For the first, the rules indicate that they should be located in agglomerations areas that record the highest concentrations to which they may be exposed during a significant period of time either directly or indirectly. This is, in major urban centres or in areas where potentially most polluting industries are located. For the protection of natural ecosystems and vegetation, measuring points must be located at a distance of more than 20 kilometres from agglomerations or more than five kilometres from other built-up areas, industrial installations or roads, in order to measure background pollution. In addition, the regulations also provide for the minimum number of cabins per pollutant and population in each assessment area, and in this sense Euskadi exceeds the fixed minimum number in a wide way. As you know, the control network consists of fifty-three stations distributed throughout the territory; forty are from the Basque Government, thirteen from private companies, the largest (thermal plants, Petronor, Zabalgarbi, etc.). And these companies are obliged to communicate to the department if there is any broadcast above the set limit, and it is the department that validates all the data of all these stations. In addition to these fixed stations, we have six mobile units to assess specific emission problems and emergency situations, and among them we have two mobile laboratories equipped with an advanced mass gas chromatograph that allows for an analysis of emerging pollutants. As you also know, this network of stations is distributed territorially in eight areas, taking into account orography and contaminants. In the case of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulate matter, the following zoning is used: Encartaciones-Alto Nervión, Bajo Nervión, Kostaldea, Donostialdea, Ibaizabal-Alto Deba, Goierri, Llanada Alavesa, and País Vasco-Ribera. And in the case of ozone, Euskadi is divided into five zones: coastline, Bilbao-Barakaldo, cantabrian valleys, inland basins, and Ebro valley. In total by capitals we have in Bilbao four stations (Maria Díaz de Haro, Mazarredo, Arraiz, Parque Europa), in San Sebastián five (Puio, Ategorrieta, Anorga, Easo and avenue de Toulouse), and in Vitoria four, located on March 3, Avenue de Gasteiz, Los Herrán and the Faculty of Pharmacy. Each station sets each contaminant continuously at 24 hours a day and 365 days a year, and the results are automatically moved every fifteen minutes to the central station located in Bilbao, where it is available to the public via the internet with a one-hour shift. That is, any citizen can know the quality of the air that breathes almost instantly on the department's website, as well as the daily and annual records. A quality that is generally good, and I am not saying this in order not to cause concern to citizens, but because it is so. If that were not so logically, I would also have to say it, and we would have to take action on it. The truth is that sulphur dioxide concentrations have fallen significantly in recent years, and it can be said that these pollutants have ceased to be a problem in Euskadi. And the same can be said of PM10 particles, although it is true that in the case of nitrogen dioxide, linked to traffic and especially to diesel vehicles, there are some peak moments in the main urban cores, but without exceeding the thresholds established in legality. With regard to air quality, there have been no episodes that have determined the need to establish alarm protocols for exceeding pollutant levels. The only specific case of ozone depletion is that of ozone, and an alarm system within the network has been designed to alert service technicians when they are close to reaching the threshold at which the population should be informed. In view of this, particularly on ozone, and in view of the fact that we are entering the summer campaign that influences the levels of this substance, work is under way in this legislature to develop a protocol of warnings and warnings that is currently in the process of operational testing, in advance of its publication, as we have seen this week on the department's website. In the coming days this protocol will be published, which does include, as has been said, a system of SMS warnings both to the department itself and to health technicians, so that they are aware, and also to the population in general. The protocol also incorporates a number of recommendations and advice to the population, information on the current state of the ozone level, as well as overall monitoring of the climate factors that make it possible to predict the future situation. In the event that other pollutants are detected which suggest triggering ozone-like actions, the same would apply, although this need has not been raised so far. For the 13 companies with integrated measurement systems in the air quality network, their emissions data are immediately available. However, its holders are obliged by environmental authorizations to adopt without delay, and without any requirement, and to immediately inform the Vice-Council of the Environment of measures to prevent further damage where air pollution has been caused in the installation of the holder who has caused damage to the safety or health of persons or the environment. This is it. In addition, the inspection service of the Deputy Environmental Adviser also has resources for actions to address any environmental impact, with a management of warnings covering 24 hours every day of the year with regard to smoke, particulate matter, gases, chemicals and odours. The action begins with the receipt of the notice, usually from SOS Deiak, and to a lesser extent particular; all the data are collected, and if necessary coordination is established through SOS Deiak, since this service, through the approved operational techniques, performs an integrated management and a relational action with all the agencies involved, both Public Health, Emergencies, Ertzaintza, environmental inspection, local authorities, etc., if there is a risk situation. Obviously, this is the situation we have, the starting situation, and logically we have to work on this starting situation. As I have said, insofar as an ozone problem has been identified, we are acting on it. To the extent that action is needed in other protocols, we will also work on this. To the extent that it is convenient, as you told me, to establish a relationship with the municipalities to protocolize situations that may allow for a better response, we will work on it. But, logically, we are carrying out a six-month management, and, finally, we will try to make progress, to the extent of the department's possibilities, in the work that allows us to have developed a level of collaboration and institutional coordination that can adequately respond to the needs arising from situations that may arise in the event of an emergency. I have to say that, from the point of view of air quality in Euskadi, fortunately we are in a good position. I hope that the levels we have achieved in recent times will not only be maintained, but will be improved. And it is the objective of this department, of course, to rigorously establish a criterion of control of that air quality, and, if necessary, logically to take the necessary measures to ensure that there is no risk to the population and that we can resolve these situations, which I hope... which have not occurred, and do not occur in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u53	Mr Arriola, on this occasion I was asking you more why it was done with the data. He also mentioned to me how the air quality network is, and somehow part of his information confirms that impression we have from Elkarrekin We can that it is somewhat complacent. You say that we have a network, obviously, with fifty-three stations, that measures properly, that hangs the data on the website... The 2015 Ecologists in Action report says, regarding the Euskadi air quality network, that in recent years stations in Arrigorriaga, Portugalete, Elorrieta, Indautxu, Zorroza, Santa Ana de Getxo and Getxo have been suppressed, and that they have significantly weakened pollution control in an area with emission outbreaks as important as the Low Nervion. Somehow, they're doing something that the City Council of Vitoria has already told us in writing: "As the data is good, in time we won't even measure." It's like saying, "Today I don't have a fever, and I sell the thermometer." We can have a fever tomorrow, right? So, it's a little complacent, because in addition Ecologists in Action says that a third of the stations that they still have have for some contaminant have recorded percentages of data capture below the minimums set by the regulations. This, clearly speaking, means that one third of the stations have not measured the pollutants for which they are designed. A third. And I'm telling you, I didn't mean to talk about the network, because I think we'll have a chance during the legislature, but, of course, if we don't have a network that's measuring correctly, we have to move on to the other side, that is, what we do with the data. And he mentioned three cases to me. On the one hand, he has told me about ozone, where there are actually overruns. What about the Abanto station, for example? Abanto station is next to Petronor. I'm saying it's because it's not a ballad that I'm standing next to Petronor. Then, in previous years, it had been conflicting over ozone levels. What happened in 2015? That he hasn't measured ozone! As there were problems, then, if we don't measure them there are no more (as we don't have a thermometer, we don't have a fever). Of course, it is good that there is indeed a protocol of warnings and warnings, and it is very necessary, because in the area of Valderejo and in Elciego, for example, in 2015 the seventy-five days of exceeding the permitted limits were exceeded. Since the regulations allow a maximum of seventy-five exceedances every three years, it means that in a single year in Elciego and Valderejo (which we are not talking about either of Sestao), in a year, they have exceeded the limits they had for three. Therefore, it is important that this protocol exists, because the people of Elciego and Valderejo do not have to be alarmed, it is that we are obliged to inform it. You also mentioned that there are no problems with sulphur dioxide. It doesn't say the same thing Ecologists in Action. As far as sulphur dioxide is concerned, I have already told you, it is one thing not to exceed the legal limits, and another is the limits of the World Health Organization. Five stations in Bajo Nervión (Abanto and Muskiz – also next to Petronor – Mazarredo, the Park of Europe and Zierbena) exceeded on more than three occasions the maximum daily concentration that the World Health Organization recommends never to exceed. So, we do have problems with sulphur dioxide. We don't have them legal, but we do have a sulfur health problem. And three of those stations are around Petronor, which, according to the government, is a clean and clean company. And finally I wanted to talk about nitrogen dioxide, where you said that there are actually peak episodes. I have here a report from the year 99, when the pollution was higher in nitrogen dioxide. It is a report that was made on a mortality study in the Great Bilbao. And this study said: "The number of deaths due to respiratory and circulatory causes increases significantly in Bilbao among people over seventy years of age during the days when air pollution rates by nitrogen dioxide reach their maximum record." These researchers found that in the five days before and in the five days after peak, mortality among people over seventy years old increased. Therefore, if you recognize me, almost twenty years later, that there are indeed times when peaks of nitrogen dioxide are overcome in certain places in Euskadi, we have to conclude that we are having an increase in mortality – if so – associated with pollution. Therefore, this is not generating alarmism either. This is just what it is. And I'd like to end with... I mentioned earlier a report on 300,000 people at the European Union level that came to an additional conclusion, and that a moderate reduction in the levels of fine particles found in exhaust gases could prevent about 8,000 hospitalizations for heart failure every year in the United States. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. You've had your time. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u55	Mr. Becerra, it's not about being complacent. It's about recognizing what we have and evaluating it too. Look, I haven't been a counselor for a while, and what I can tell you is that our air quality network... I am not going to tell you that it is exemplary, but that it comes from many places to see it and to know it and to try to copy it as much as possible. We will not be working so badly, when from other communities they are going to Euskadi to know our air quality control system, when our mobile units – especially the most modern, the two most modern ones – are an example throughout Spain, and when we are working I think that solvently in the work we are entrusted with in this matter. It is true that there are problems, in the case of ozone, which I have acknowledged, and as we have detected that problem, which is not new, what is being protocolized action. And in addition to protocolizing action on ozone, I also say that we have commissioned a specific study on ozone behaviour, which we need to study in depth in order to be able to know better how to deal with this situation and improve its levels in the whole of the Basque Country. We have recently commissioned a study in this regard. To the extent that some excess of nitrogen dioxide levels in Bilbao has been possible in the past year, we are in contact with the Bilbao City Council to work on proposals that could allow for a comprehensive action plan in the municipality, which can also be exported to other municipal areas where there may be a risk that such situations may occur. And, as you can see, we're working. We're working, I think, with credit. But, well, when we say that the air quality data in Euskadi are good or very good (there are also very good data) we are not saying anything that is autobomb or that is self complacency. We are simply transferring the reality of the data derived from our measurement stations. In this sense, logically in this question, as in all of life, we must never lower the guard; we must continue to work; we must continue, to the extent that needs are detected, trying to cover them; we must improve, to the extent that the need is also detected and the need is evidenced to protocolize actions, to do so also, because it is better to prevent in that sense and that everyone knows what to deal with in the event of situations of risk or emergency... And we will do so to the extent that we see that need evidenced by the area of environmental control that develops its work in the department. However, I insist that the situation we have in Euskadi is a good situation compared to the country as a whole. The control system that we have established is an efficient control system; that in addition not only the government's own network, but the network that is integrated within the air quality network system, the companies, also works well, and there is good communication and good control of that network installed in the companies, which certainly, like everything in life – I said – we will try to keep improving, but we start from a situation that I understand is positive. And you tell me that stations have been suppressed, etc. The total number of stations we have on the network has not been reduced. In fact, in the area to which you referred, which is basically the area of the Great Bilbao, almost 50% of the stations are concentrated: there are twenty-four stations in the Great Bilbao. Why? Well, because logically, from the point of view of its location and following the recommendations of the regulations and air quality technicians, it is considered that it is an area to be monitored in particular. But I tell you in general that the starting point situation we have is a good starting point situation; that certainly, as I was saying, we must not lower the guard, and that we will try, as far as possible, to improve it in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. 9th point on the subject list: "Interrelation by Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntaine, the members of the Popilative Groups of the United States, the Chief of the Planets, and Housing Houses, about the contamination of the soil of June 25th, and the development of the 4/20th Law Act. " Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor, good morning. On June 25, 2015, we adopted in this House a new law for the prevention and correction of soil pollution, a law that reflects the principles and inspiring objectives of the previous law, already repealed, of 2005. Law that has allowed us to make progress in the protection of soil quality, both in the actions of individuals and in the actions of administrations in general. The new law contains amendments which seek, on the one hand, the reduction of administrative intervention, administrative simplification and the principle of non-custodial care where this is not necessary, and, on the other hand, the strict maintenance of environmental standards, without prejudice to the amendment. The inclusion of these issues has led to the desirability of making further changes in the structure of the law, with the aim of improving processing, especially in the areas governing instruments and procedures in terms of soil quality, its obligations, soil policy instruments and sanctioning regime. This law covers the fundamental regulatory aspects for the prevention and correction of soil pollution, and leaves for regulatory development those more technical aspects or procedures of the same. This new text introduces two new developments in the new regulation: it establishes a classification of potentially polluting activities of the soil (classification according to their potential contamination), which makes it possible to determine the obligations and corrective measures adjusted to that potential, and, on the other hand, with the aim of speeding up administrative intervention in the field of prevention and correction of soil pollution, it establishes a duality of procedures in the field of soil quality. On the one hand there is the declaration of soil quality, whose purpose is to validate the suitability of the soil for the proposed use; on the other hand there is the declaration of suitability of the use of the soil, simpler, which aims to validate the suitability of the soil exclusively for industrial use, in which case such declarations will not be necessary. Total, we are in the process of moving forward with the new normative text that is left in rubber water if we do not develop the corresponding regulatory development. And so, for example, chapter V, which sets out the general issues relating to administrative procedures in the field of soil quality, which is pending regulatory development. For example, Article 29 tells us about the rules of procedure for soil quality: "The rules for the different procedures for soil quality shall be established on a regular basis". There we are, and it is one of the issues that we want to clarify, how the development of this law is going. Because two years ago, we'd like to know what the reality is. We know that you have just arrived and indeed any delays you may have cannot be blamed on you, but we would like to know what the reality is. "The procedures for declaring soil quality and the procedure for certifying subsequent recovery shall be regulated." Article 30 speaks of a very important aspect, inter-institutional collaboration: "The instruments of inter-institutional collaboration necessary for the municipalities to be aware of the finalization of the deadlines for the resolution of the files of their municipal term will be established". And there is another aspect that is not specified by the law, but it is that of those lands that correspond to two different municipalities, and we have at this time a very important case, which is the case of Novaltia, in Bizkaia, which is having a special problem in solving the documentation of soil pollution. But we also have chapter II, "Tools to know and control soil quality". Article 11 tells us about risk analyses, objectives or situations that may be affected by soil pollution. This will also be determined by regulation. Article 10 speaks to us about the detailed investigation of soil quality, which will conclude with a report, and the content of these reports will be specified by regulation; article 9 speaks of exploratory research; article 8 speaks of soil situation reports, activities and categories... That is, this law, which we have already said in its day, has a very powerful regulatory development. And I agree that it is not easy to do so, but the reality at the moment is that there is a broad, widespread complaint from promoters of activities to develop in the industrial estates of the Basque Autonomous Community, for the delay and delay in responding and giving way to the files on soil pollution. The complaint comes from different areas: from business unions, from specific companies that call because they don't know what to do, they don't know where their file is, they need an answer to move forward, and they don't have it. We would then like to know what data you have, Mr. Counsellor, on this situation of delay in the response to the files requested by the promoters; what time limits the Government considers to approve the regulations of this law, especially those relating to administrative procedures. Because in the development of this law if one insisted on something it is that, well, we are going to speed up those procedures, which are long, and it turns out that what we have at this time is..., that we don't know exactly if there are several things that affect, but what we have is a rather broad jam and complaint. Therefore, counselor, the object of this inquiry is to know what the reality is, to know what the regulatory development of the law is, and to know what the reasons are, or if you have data on the reasons for this delay in responding to the application files on contaminated soils, the pollution of industrial soils. And, well, if you're also having this feeling of complaint, of delay, and trying to find out if you're looking for solutions to this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask me a clear and direct question in your letter of inquiry (if it is the Government's intention to develop the regulations of Law 4/2015 of 25 June for the prevention and correction of soil pollution), and the answer I will give you is also a clear and direct answer: Yes. And I tell you that with my answer I do not discover anything new, because this issue has already been brought to the attention of the general public and all administrations, and it has been set as part of the normative development to be affected by this department on several occasions already. On January 30, 2017, I presented to the various parliamentary groups the legislative development tasks that had been marked by the department, and included this decree among those tasks. On 3 May 2017, the order of the Minister of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing was published approving the department's annual policy planning, and annex 1 expressly includes the decree for the development of Law 4/2015. And on 9 May 2017, by agreement of the Governing Council, the Government's annual regulatory plan for 2017 was approved and published, and it also includes the decree on contaminated soils. I therefore believe that the positive answer to the question raised has already been accepted for a few months. However, as you will understand, the regulatory development of a law, especially of rules that have particular significance for citizenship and business, cannot be done in a light or partial way. It must be done from the rigour of administrative proceedings, which requires a prudent time of reflection and analysis, take into account the experience gained in the last two years since the entry into force of the law, and listen to the demands and proposals of the agents of the sector. You in your argument refer to the duality of procedures in the field of soil quality, and allude to the need to develop chapter V of the law on a regulatory basis. Now in the rostrum, in addition to chapter V, it has indeed referred to other issues that are covered by the law and that are the subject of regulatory development, beyond chapter V. Well, in fact, the law establishes what you call dual procedures (the procedure that concludes with the soil quality declaration, and the one that concludes with the declaration of suitability for land use), and in addition to the 2015 law also introduces a whole chapter of exemptions to simplify the application of the regulations. It is quite clear the law and procedural development, and the regulatory referral is not so much about the procedure, as you indicate, but about the tools that actually allow us to conclude on an administrative pronouncement based, as it cannot be otherwise, on legal certainty. Focusing only on the development of chapter V, therefore, would not be something that would complete the regulatory development of the law. Indeed, you have recalled here that there are a number of articles that from chapter II require regulatory development, and that will be part of the law's development regulations. This is expressly referred to in Article 8 on the scope, content and periodicity of soil status reports; Articles 9 and 10 on the minimum content of the report including exploratory research and detailed soil quality research; Article 11 on the minimum content of risk analyses; Articles 12 and 13, on the content of studies of alternatives and plans for the recovery of contaminated soils and plans for the selective excavation of inventory sites; Article 14, on the investigation of the final state of the soil; Article 16, on periodic updates for the knowledge of the soil situation; Article 25, on the threshold for excavation in relation to the cases of exemption from soil quality declaration procedures; and Articles 37 and 38, on the minimum content of the communication and notification of cases of exemption. All this also implies the need for technical annexes to enable the better application of the new legislation. Well, according to what I have commented to you, what has the department done to date for the development of the 2015 law? As already in 2016, the department began the work to make progress in the preparation of the draft decree that develops the contents provided for in this standard. In the interest of better law enforcement and the resolution of doubts, various technical notes have been published from the department, the content of which will subsequently be incorporated into the decree, thus avoiding any legal vacuum and promoting the legal security of both the Administration and those administered. By the way, I have to tell you that the average number of entries of files in the contaminated soil area since January 2017 amounts to seventy-five monthly files, when the usual, according to the department's historical statistics, was between thirty-fifty monthly files. One of the difficulties of this decree is the high technical level required for its drafting, and therefore the department is being comprehensive from the point of view of the technical and administrative review, so that the effective subsequent implementation by operators can be carried out in a clear and secure manner. After making the appropriate assessment, it was decided to move forward on the one hand with the articulation and on the other with the annexes, seeking greater coherence between the two but establishing a broader technical component for the annexes. To this day the drafting of the joint is almost complete, and the preparation of the annexes is at an advanced stage. Once we have the full text, the draft decree will be sent to the various actors involved in the matter with the aim of generating, as far as possible, the greatest consensus, and also of having different perspectives that enrich the final text. When we have the draft advanced with the contributions of the agents of the sector will logically collect the rest of the mandatory opinions that will serve for the preparation of the final dossier, step before its approval by the Governing Council and its subsequent publication. Well, I would like to trust that the procedures and evaluation of mandatory reports and opinions of the different bodies and administrations will be carried out within a reasonable time, so that we can meet the objective of having this decree approved by the Governing Council before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u61	Yes, Mr. Counsellor, indeed, you tell me that you are in it, and you tell me about the end of the year for this decree to be published. And it tells me of one thing that seems very important to me: the increase in the number of files that enter the department in this area, and it tells me that the number of files has almost doubled. Therefore, Mr Councilman, I believe that technical services will also have been expanded to meet this demand, because logically what moves us from different areas, as I have said, is a certain concern, or anxiety, of many companies that want to settle, that have difficulties, that have been waiting a long time for their file to be resolved and that are in a very critical situation. Therefore, Mr Councilman, I think we must be in a position to respond immediately; we must not skip technical procedures, but these dossiers cannot be archived there waiting for the volume to go down. Behind this there are very important business projects, there are developments that can be affected by the delay in resolving these files, and the question, as I said, is whether it is only the development of the law that causes this retention of the files, if there are other causes... How do you plan to regularize this backlog situation? I suppose this concern has come to you, as to us, from the industrial sectors, both from industrial organizations and individually, and the situation I can tell you is in some cases worrying, because it will depend on whether the project goes ahead or not, on the period you use to respond. I therefore believe that it is our duty to facilitate these procedures to be as agile as possible, and not to harm those industrial investment projects which are planned for our territory and to which this administrative stoppage is seriously harming them. I would encourage you, Mr. Counsellor, to use all the means at your disposal to get out of all these files that you have in some way stored and unanswered in time and form, as it would correspond. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u62	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u63	Well, on the one hand, Mrs Ocariz, you see that in these months of management that we have been in the department we have not been precisely stopped in the regulatory development work of this law, that we have made much progress in the internal work, and in that sense I hope and trust that we can meet the objective of adopting this decree before the end of the year. As far as internal work is concerned, as I said, it is very advanced. It is true that the adoption of a decree is farceous from the point of view of the reports, which no longer depend directly on my department, but we will try to achieve that goal. Because I do understand that it is necessary for this regulatory development to take place and that we can do so within the shortest possible time frame, always guaranteeing rigour and security, which is the important thing in these matters which are also sensitive to businesses and to the general public. I do not know that there are any longer delays, in this time of management that has touched me, than there could have been before in the department. It is true, as I said, that the number of files submitted has increased substantially. It probably has something to do with the economic revival we are having in recent times and that can make soils that were standing still begin to move. And that is also a good sign from the point of view of what is a news that can allow the Basque economy to start moving fortunately in a positive way. And, logically, from the department the instruction is to be the most efficient from the point of view of the response, and not to delay in time the response to these files, to the extent that they involve administrative processing by the Department of Environment. It is true that the 2015 Act itself provided for the provision necessary for the development of this service and included thirteen jobs. We are significantly below that provision under the law. We'd need eight more to cover. But we are also at a time when the staffing has been frozen, not precisely at the will of the Government, but because of the legal imperative arising from the measures taken by the Government of Spain which have affected all the public administrations and which have entailed the freezing of staffing. So you can't ask one to do what he can't do to the extent that they don't legally allow him to do it, can they? What more would I like, than to have more staff, that in that sense I can respond much more agilely to the demands of businesses and citizens, and that you did not come here to tell me in this rostrum that there are complaints on the part of companies that their file is being delayed by the processing done by the Department of the Environment! I'd like that, wouldn't I? And you have no doubt that to the extent of the legal possibilities I will fight it, and I will also do so with Public Service so that we can have the best human resources that can allow us to respond adequately to the needs arising from companies and public administrations as well, and from citizens in this country. But that's what we have in our hands, and with what we have in our hands we have to answer. The truth is that I do not have a special complaint from companies about the administrative handling of cases in recent times. This is probably a historical situation (historical, which is not new, but comes a little accumulated in time), which insofar as possible we will try to resolve. I hope that we will also have our hands free in this regard so that we can quantify the staffing needed to meet the needs we have in each of the departments and that this will be so for the future. I hope, to the extent that the economic situation not only here, but throughout the country, is better, then, it is also a little liberalized and the administrations are allowed to act more freely.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea Eugula Group members of the United States are made for Ogas and Economic Department of Economies." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Councilman, this is the last full of control at this session, and over the past few months we have witnessed cross-reactions on the future tax reform that may or may not come. I, in any case, am left with what the lehendakari told us at the time: that there would be a common diagnosis, and that obviously a reform would be introduced (if it were to be introduced) in September, so that it could be approved at the end of December and could enter into force for next year. We have seen how the three parliaments have made a sort of balance sheet of the last fiscal reform, which I have to tell you has seemed to me at least poor. Let's leave him in poverty, the balance they've made. First, because he has no clear conclusions either of them. And secondly, because it has not even been taken into account that since January the collection was increasing a lot during this year, and it seems to me that at least the Member States (the last figure we have is April, that the collection has been increased by more than 10% and that practically corresponds to the company tax), when what has been talked about is the company tax during all these past months, so let us say that we do not want any Member to make any assessment of what is going on these months with the company tax. And we would also have liked that the deputies would have made the distinction between the collection by the foral regulations and the collection by the regulations derived from the measures of Mr Montoro last year and the previous year. In any case, we believe that each of the three conclusions of the Chambers must be pooled with the Basque Government in order to arrive at a common conclusion, which I assume will be transferred to the OCT. And that's why we have our question, asking the counselor when we're going to have a common diagnosis, or more or less where the shots of that so-called tax reform can go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u67	Good morning, everyone. Mr Damborenea, as you well know, a few weeks ago, before a question from Mr Bollain of the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos, I said that we were dealing precisely with the joint assessment that you are asking of the 2013 tax reform that came into force in 2014. An assessment that in any case should be produced – and I also said so then – respecting the competition areas, as it cannot be otherwise. With this I was referring to something that was public and that you do not know either, and it is the fact that the Members themselves had already advanced some data of interest, also as you mentioned today. Well, in my opinion, this situation has not changed substantially today, and advanced information is being studied and evaluated in the terms in which it should be done, for two reasons. Firstly, because a joint diagnosis and evaluation is not done in abstract or vacuum, but in order to make decisions for new adjustments and revisions. Secondly, because nothing has changed the vision of this adviser and of this Government which I represent in relation to the Basque tax model and the need to increase or increase revenue from the tax system at all institutional levels, so that there is a financial sufficiency for the provision of services, apart from the fact that it is also important for the tax system to be used to boost economic activity. So be assured, Mr Damborenea, that, sooner than later, the assessments of tax reform will be carried out and we will take them into account in view of the following changes, changes or whatever needs to be done in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u68	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, growing in income is what is happening, by more than 10%. That is, if the purpose of the reform was to grow in income, it seems that it is being achieved. And if in the end, even if it wasn't 10%, it was 5% or 6% more, obviously the Councillor will recognize me that we don't know anyone who wins 5% more or 6% more, in the economic situation in which we are. And I say no one, no companies, no one. That is to say, having a raise of more than 5 or 6 % seems to me to be quite important. In any case, I would like to remind you that you and I signed an agreement a few months ago, and in this regard we agree with you and I, and we signed the Government and we, that any approach to tax reform must include a comprehensive agreement that does not bring down to middle and low incomes a decline in income and favours the competitiveness of Basque companies, especially micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, and favours savings and investment, which is what some understand to make the country attractive for investment and job creation. We agree, and we certainly trust that this Government will comply with what we signed at the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u71	Mr Damborenea, I cannot say any more than I have already said to you, and I think it is time that we did not rush to advance data or to make decisions. Indeed, the collection is coming up. There are many effects that play on that collection, last year's returns... I think we have to wait until the months pass before we have more recent data. This counselor has no intention of looting anyone taxed for resources and not knowing what to do. No, no. We are, of course, within the margins of wisdom, and we are thinking of financing public policies in the sense I have commented on. And, of course, we respect it! I, look, I'm going to quote you. The agreement we signed said: "Taxation must have two complementary objectives. On the one hand, to obtain the necessary tax resources to finance the expenses and investments of the Basque Government, deputies and municipalities" – and that is what we are doing – "and also to promote economic growth, investment and the creation of stable and quality jobs, especially so that Basque youth" – it was said in that agreement, or it is said in that agreement – "very prepared, can develop their project of life in the Basque Country". "That's why," he said, "any approach to tax reform must include a broad agreement that does not lead to lower and lower incomes and that promotes the competitiveness of Basque companies, especially micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, and that promotes savings and investment." That's what the deal said. But having said this, and with the same roundness, I will tell you that I do not forget – and I must also devote my efforts to this – that the government agreement in force today obliges the Tax Coordination Body to encourage the updating of precise fiscal rules to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment and to safeguard essential social policies and public services. In these parameters of future action this government will implement its fiscal vision. We will comply strictly with the commitments, Mr Damborenea, with no doubt in this regard, and I hope that everyone, when there are changes, modifications or any agreement on this matter, will live up to the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Collectors, made to the head of the Board of Education, the measures which Child School will take to conduct the administration of Common-wealths." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u73	The head of the table, Mrs. Uriart, good morning to all. June 12th, Eibar, five o'clock in the morning, a tremendous crowd, rows of them at Eibar. What's going on? What, did they put in Justin Bieber's concert tickets for sale? Or is the Eibari having an important game and they've put the tickets to it for sale for that game? Nobody knew what was going on. Just crowds, rows, sleepers, floors, etc. But some people knew what was going on. The children's school teachers knew what was going on, the Board of Education knew what was going on, people who wanted to work together in Child Schools, citizens, knew what was going on. And between the 12th of June and 14. These lines grew and reached the border of Biscaia. Better for a celebration or a show, and not after six years, after the lists were closed, the Child School organized a pitiful show. Because such unpleasant situations, such as these, at the expense of the workmen, are truly unacceptable and sad in organizing them. And a good management, well, without getting better, because a suitable management of things is well done, such situations can be avoided. For six years, it's said easily, shut up and open for two days. For two days, June 30, make up your mind: From 12 and 14. To offer contracts for June 30th, to offer more than 20 jobs. And again it became evident, that the lack of planning and the preparation of the task under which it is fostered. Besides, when he had been warned from so many deserts, he was informed of the condition in which the Child Schools were found for the Parthians, and this might be avoided. It might be possible, if you opened the lists in advance and every time, to calm yourself and to keep things clean for a little while. But no. From one day to another, without warning lists, people need to look for documentation, documents need to be compulsed, organize their lives, and so it happened. And besides, the lists no one knows, because, as far as I know, these lists are not clear, these are not public. I'd like to know the number of people who spent the first day in those queues, and all those two days. I don't know if it's too much to ask you to do better than that. Can't you manage better? Why should a people like that be treated like that to people? The government that gives cattle to those who are our futures is unworthy. Our government shows what is the nature of that government which is given to our instructors and our children. I don't know how much it costs to plan things, as I said before, sometimes open lists, calm them, and push them to high-quality employment. After all, all of us can arrange life in a more normal manner as far as we can. After all, it's to offer you the ionological education in part with Child Schools. Eibar photo didn't do any favors to the child school. He didn't do no favor either to the Board of Education or to the Workers or to the families or to anyone or to the children. And I'm sure you think the same thing, Mrs. Uriart, I'm sure. And I'm sure you want the best of the children's schools to share. So if that's the case and you're not going to tell me, but if that's the case, then the Board of Education, together with the Baby School, what's he gonna do to improve management, what's he gonna do today to correct management? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u75	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs. Ubera, a few days ago, as you mention, a summons from the child school had gathered hundreds of people into the principal abode of the Parthian community. They decided to spread their lists so the officials could make replacements from these weeks. This decision had some consequences, besides what it was sought for, and many people expressed their indignation. In the next few minutes we will discuss the details of the future, after we have spoken of Childing Schools to the members of the community. But since this subject has been introduced through an interpelation, children's schools will have an opportunity of prolonging further information about the Parthians, and insisting on their course and their work. I think it's appropriate, because in the last few days some one has shown the temptation to doubt the good work which the Parthians have done. As you know, the child school career began in the 24th of September 2003, in accordance with the treaty signed between Euskana and the 31 townships of Euskidents. At the present day, this number has grown much; 178 townships are members of the Parthian community from the 251 townships in Eucharin. He's been serviceing 55,000 families these years. The purpose of the child school is to provide a full education service for children in between 0-2 years, such as social help, especially work and family life. A service for education and support. A major mission was born to bear child schools into common life, in fact, to provide high care and education to children under two years of age. Four major goals to complete the mission are fixed: To promote children's education and development in the community, based on equality and respect, to offer support to families in order to enable compatibility between family and work life; to encourage education to overcome differences in the school community, and to promote suitable conditions to guarantee the eloquence of children, by encouraging and encouraging them to be a support for work-language and service language. As for the facts which the Parthians offer us, he is now serving 95% of the Basque population. He began with twenty-seven children's school and today we have 235 children's school, offering him 8,440 squares. They have, therefore, been opening and increasing the nursery schools, and constantly co-ordinately working for the improvement of the installations by co-operation with the municipal houses. The college and the University of the Basque Country are signed by the contract of laborers who are allowed to practise future educational exercises. Looking to the future, the children's schools will encourage them to share the following actions: and where there is a request, the places where the squares are added, and where there are no children's lessons, or the means to facilitate the production process, will be established. As to the way of the Centres, though the decree mentions an educationist in the room, the child school makes the effort to hire two class educationators. Based on the new resume of child education, the education project of the centers is now operational. And in order to improve the working of the centers in the future, child schools will continue to work on a new organization of organizational education, and educational educationists will be given a constant formation to get the strategy of improving their daily work. Also, by the ISEI-IVEI, the incests which are performed in children's sects, with the intention to encourage them to do what they can always improve. On the other hand, to encourage the professional development of the workers, to ensure their professional educational development, and a constant formation is given around so many topics, and it is an excellent estimate of the satisfaction of the educators. There is also a great participation in the pedagogical operations which are performed every year. The year before, and for the first time, the regulation of the settlement of Childer Schools was admitted, after negotiation with the representatives of the workers. Based on the effective management of personal personnel with personnel and the need for candidates, the new rule is to make replacements and fill empty jobs in the negotiation process. All this is to be mentioned, the answers given by the users of the children's school in the polls mentioned above. 98% speak of good or very good quality. Almost all families (% 96.3.) believe children to receive a custom treatment in children, according to their characters and necessities, which is one of the hooks of the process of education, and of the attention of that age. Other sects also abound: the half-pastions, the written reports, the opening doors, or the parties connected with equality. In short, the Basque families greatly appreciate the work they do, and in addition to that, Child Schools consider a common standard in the State. I shall no longer speak of the work made by children, but I thought it necessary to draw a summary. Let's not let what has happened a few days ago be disturbed by the child school's service to our society. Before the event of June 13th and 14, I assure you that Child Schools aren't shared with the management that pleased them, and I feel that there are none of them. Putting them in those days, though there was a bag of work about 500 people, that is to say, enough to face their wants every year in theory, it was only 20 of these 500 people who had shown the will to accept replacements. And that wasn't quite enough. If we are on the 13th and 14th of June, we have to bear in mind that the list of candidates for replacements exceeded five hundred people, a figure more than enough to meet the number that is usually required each year by these dates. But, as I say, at the time of starting to make the calls only twenty of those people were willing to accept the place offered to them. They talk about lack of forecasting, but it's hard to predict a situation like that. Of course, it's not usual. Did you mention the prevision dinner, but how could you predict the situation in advance? It was impossible to predict this situation beforehand. It is known at the moment when people in the study are called disibilities; that is to say, when they begin to call those who are listed. And I repeat: There were over 500 people on those lists. According to the calculations of the advocates, according to their experience, they would require less than 100 persons to make the substitutions. But necessity has ever been greater than ever, and this has been a surprise to all, and I shall make a little more sure that this section is a little later for them all, and the number of candidates became less than ever. I repeat: Even though it's more than 500 people's job bag. People's availability is known at the time the calls are made, not before. And I repeat that that list, with more than five hundred aspirants, should be more than enough to deal with substitutions. In addition, the number of replacements to be made this year has been much higher, and both issues have been unusual: the increase in the number of replacements to be made, and the availability of only twenty people among a list of more than five hundred candidates identified in the above list. Often they are difficult to manage situations which do not occur. In the presence of an unusual situation, the managers of the Parthians took an unusual measure. Still, he's already working to lead the situation around. On my second round, I will determine the reasons for certain circumstances which took place. It is often easy to criticize, but the decisions commonly agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u77	But until then, you accused us of being tempted to harm the children's schools with the work and the name of the Parthians. You know what? The children's schools are the name of the Parthians, and you're the ones who darken the work, because you're the ones who're doing it. You! Look, I don't know any more about the Child Schools that believe in it than we do, they're all the initiatives that we've been introduced from the pre-prejudicing legislation. You refused all of your enterprises: Around the freeness, around the progressive quaten, around the scholarships, around the formation... And not all of you. And what do you do in front of that? What you do in front of that is apply the restrictions, apply the restrictions. Because what happened at Eilea is a sample of your management. Just one sample and one consequence. And what's going on is the result of not giving the importance of Child School to Parter. You don't know how to fit child schools into new times. What does that do? For he may think, that the management of your actions, only by seeing, can be tempted, that you may be tempted, to destroy the Child Schools. You can think of that. And the trade of a government to the educationators, who are the future of our people, proves that it is unworthy. It shows what its nature is really. And what this government has to do is its educators, its children, take care of. Child school has to take care of the rest of our educational systems. Because they're our future, and that requires management. But what happened? Due to some restrictions, I'm trying to remember that we haven't yet reached the level of the 2012 preliminaries. And I'm very grateful to you for not answering my question today. I'm very grateful. But we know Child Schools from Parter. And because we know him, we know we haven't reached the level of 2012 premiers. Yes, and this management has brought a specific job management. And what's that got to do with it? Well, I don't think that lists are open. It's the result that at the end of the year the teachers are moving and can't shut up families, they can't shut up the school properly, they can't be able to get together with children that are so important to you, families. And here, and, well, I'm grateful to you, you've confessed that what happened wasn't appropriate. But if you really feel this way, instead of confessing it, what you have to do is take measures and correct management. Because you said you couldn't find out. Do you think those people in the list for six years are waiting for a call from the Child School of Education? These people have to live their lives, and that's what they need to find a job for, they need to find a job. And they're not expecting your call. And you know that, you've got enough experience to manage lists now. You've got experience. And then the unions warned you about it. How many times have they told you to open the lists, at least once a year, to open the lists, to calm down? How many times? So please listen, share, direct interviews, negotiate, negotiate, agree, because you're not doing that until now. And it seems to us that what you need to do is correct. Correct if you're really sorry and you have conviction that the occasion is essential. And if you really have that conviction, we need to take steps and make that move go, we need to take steps to get into the education network. Because really, it's the most basic and important event in education system. And I would ask you, at least once a year, to determine the criteria of being open, with ease and transparency, to end the contract of the work-metating; to finish the pattern of opposition based on fraud (for these are the decrees), to reduce the temporary, one by 41%, the other by nature; to end the education of the schoolers into their colleges, and to begin by adapting the education as required. And so on, etc. I think it's possible, that it can be corrected, and that we could do it among all. All of us. And we put our suggestions on the table. If you like, we share them and agree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up, please. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u79	Mrs. Ubera, I thought you hadn't heard me, but I finally see you did. But it's true that you're trying to get everything mixed up and profited by your proclamations. But... As I said before in the second round, I'll determine things. Let's start studying the bag of work I've been talking about. What you're talking about is right. That's 2011. it was the last time the bag had been opened in the year. Ever since then, children's school managers have never seen it necessary to open it again. The number of candidates, it seems, was sufficient to oppose the wants of the candidates, and the accepting of new candidates would give them false hopes of obtaining employment from those who entered the lists. The children's schools were part-wide candidates 2,625 before opening the list. 625 people in that job bag. In June, after several replacements had been urged, there were still more than 500 persons left to call them from that list. This is a very large sum of resistance to the wants which they anticipated, but, as I have said before, it is impossible to know whether these educationators are ready to work. But reality was something else this time. I'll give you an example: They had to make more than 60 calls to fill a replacement alone. And this situation is unusual. It's impossible to predict. It's unusual, too, that 38 replacements should be completed for June 16th. A very high number, a striking data, indeed: Of these 38, there were 27 new lists. Whatever has happened, I'd like to discuss the communication between the members of the organizational staff with the workers' representatives. After the past union elections, the delegation of the labourers of the Baby Schools at the present day is as follows: LAB union contains 6% of delegation, 7%, Steilas has 27,6%, and ELA has 10%. These unions were engaged in a new regulation of replacements during this year with the management of the Parthians, and with this the demand for opening lists has been laid on the table. So on June 9th, the management of the Parthians sent a mail to the unions reporting the problems they found in the workbag. It was mentioned in this chorus that the need to open the lists. On the same day, the 9th of June (that is, four days before the opening of the lists), two of the unions respond to the mail. The LAB union, the majority union, points out the following in its reply: "Harrituta geratu gara ordezkoen zerrendan hainbeste jende egotetik bat-batean zerrenda agurtua dagoela jakitea". Therefore, the LAB union was also surprised that this happened, because, I repeat, it is not customary for that to happen. But it was that LAB's mail contained an attached document, and in it, among other issues, the following was requested: "Zerrendak irekitzea eta izen-emate hurrenkeren arabira, ordezkapenak eskaintzea". He requested the opening of the lists, and that the places available for replacements be offered in order of registration. Therefore, the majority union's request coincided with the decision finally taken by the consortium's management. For its part, the Steilas union, in addition to being critical of management management, also called for the immediate opening of the lists in order to be able to take on the substitutions. And the ELA union didn't answer. The child school, therefore, was obliged to take special measures before this exceptional condition, in order to complete the substitutions. The management made a quick decision, because they needed to expand the list of candidates for replacements. In fact, on June 14, it was necessary to call twenty-five people who had just signed up for the list. Later on, as every year, during the process of barring the nearly 4,000 candidates who have finally registered on the list will be barred, and each of them will be placed on the list according to their merits. In this case, we did not allow time to carry out a process of barring, and management had to ensure replacements for the benefit of the service provided to families. Besides this, Child Schools are ready to open the lists again, but with some other tranquillity. The deadlines will be wider, the candidates will be longer. From the direction of the consortium they are aware, and so are we, of the situation generated, and we really feel it. It is an unusual situation, and with the need for urgent action, the first thing they thought about from the start was to respond to the need generated and for the good of boys and girls.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interadectation by Jon Hernández Hidedez, a member of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the east of Gipulia with an advanced medical unit." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u81	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuak, Health Adviser, parliamentary colleagues and parliamentary colleagues, egun on guztioi. Elkarrekin Podemos echoes in this inquiry of a problem that has emerged to the press and the media these weeks, about the need, of the proposal that there exists in the area of Bidasoa, in the region of Bidasoa, an ambulance of the so-called advanced life support with doctor. In our view, this problem is the tip of the iceberg of a widespread problem of the Euskadi emergency health transport network, which sooner or later we will have to address in order to provide a comprehensive solution in this legislature. In our opinion, to make this problem a mess because ESK has raised it, or because Mr. Santano, Mayor of Irun, has raised it, or because citizens' platforms have raised it with more than 5,000 signatures... It is an element of opportunity for improvement. Criticism of the Department of Health of the people who defend Basque public health and consider health a right can only be understood as opportunities for improvement. Mr. Counsellor knows this perfectly well, that he knows the management and management processes of the Department of Health. Never Elkarrekin We could be in this atrium talking about a necessary resource like this if we understood that it was a topic of consumption or an inappropriate topic from the point of view of the financial dimension and resources that our emergency organization has at this time in the Bidasoa region. Let's go in parts. Emergencies Osakidetza is an organization whose mission is to provide emergency health care in the field of out-of-hospital care, ensuring, when necessary, 24 hours, 365 days a year, and also to transfer patients from one hospital to another, in the case that concerns us from the Hospital of Bidasoa to the University Hospital Donostia. How do these issues work? Well, there are three emergency units: one in Bizkaia, one in Alava, and one in Gipuzkoa. They receive calls that require health care, both via 112 and via telephones from Osakidetza, and after receiving the notice the coordinating centre, usually attended by a healthcare professional, evaluates the seriousness of the problem and mobilizes the appropriate resource and responds to the problem. What resources do we have on the urgent health transport network in Euskadi? We have three different units, according to the type of service to be done. We have the so-called advanced life support with a doctor (serious, polytraumatized problems, people who don't need a long time, and that we're playing the patient's life). We have basic life support, with healthcare technicians, who, according to a lower severity of the problem, care for patients according to the mobilization made by the emergency center manager. And we have a wide network of concerted ambulances that do what they do is move patients with dialysis to home, home rehabilitation, home leave emergencies, etc. Mobilizes these resources the professional who answers the phone, according to the polytraumatism or according to the severity of the patient. I do not want to hide that, within the problems we have in public health and in health at international level, the times of attention in serious problems have to do with the ability to survive. The latest research that I have had access to speaks of what is called heart-time or brain-time to talk about stroke and to talk about myocardial infarction, issues for which, from the point of view of the health sciences, we have sufficiently effective and important therapeutic batteries, but it is the time of care that determines the ability to survive or irreversible disability injuries. Well, the incident is handled like this. And what do we have in Gipuzkoa? Well, we have four advanced life support units with a doctor (in Donostia, Elgoibar, Tolosa and Arrasate), two advanced life support units with a nurse (in Donostia and Zarautz), and twenty basic life support units normally made up of health technicians. Apart from that, after five, as you know, are the CAPs (continuous care points), which move doctors home and the corresponding transfers. What do we have in Bidasoa? In the Bidasoa region there are two basic life support units and... and nothing else. The department made a proposal to create an advanced life support, I insist, for serious problems, with nurse. Then, the emergency workers, the ESK union in this case, the corresponding citizen platforms, and the mayors of the area, in this case of Irun and Hondarribia, did not agree, no longer with the resource being sufficient for the set of problems that the region of Bidasoa addresses, but because of the inadequacy. The Department of Health, with its advisor at the front, immediately set up a meeting with the mayors, seeing the media impact of a problem that should not have had a media impact, because emergencies are part of the health system, is part of Osakidetza. We can't analyze everything on the sidelines, because everything works in a coordinated and synchronized way. Then, the vice-advisors (Dr. Iñaki Berraondo and Fátima Ansotegi) had that meeting, analyzed the topic, and stayed to study it. Well, that's right, there the counselor is very skilled, because they're talking about an advanced life support unit with a doctor for the region of 77,000 inhabitants, and he was offering a helicopter. It's a skill, that you ask one thing and they offer you another. Well, this is an anecdote. The international recommendations are that there should be a basic life support unit for approximately 25,000 inhabitants, and an advanced life support unit for approximately 120,000 inhabitants. The ambulance, the advanced life support with a doctor covering the region of Bidasoa, is in Donostia, and covers about 430,000 inhabitants, according to the 2016 census. But not only that, but, in addition to having these inhabitants with a distance of more than 40 kilometers between Getaria and Hondarribia, it also has the following activities: they transfer serious patients, in this case from the Bidasoa Hospital to the University Hospital of Donostia... When I say serious I mean stroke, polytraumatized, neurosurgery problems, also deliveries (because there is no in Bidasoa, there is in the University Hospital of Donostia) and also pediatrics, serious problems of boys and girls, because up to three there is no pediatrician. In addition to these activities, this ambulance, to address the problems of 427,000 inhabitants, has the entire line of accidents and multi-traumas in one of the densest areas of accidents, due to the border character of Irun and Hondarribia, of the whole of Euskadi. In addition to accidents and polytraumas, in addition to the serious problems of inter-hospital transfers, there are two interesting agreements that our department assumes. One is the so-called cross-border agreement, where French citizens in the area are transferred to their reference hospitals in Donibane Lohizune or Baiona. And we also have agreements with the Navarra part that is beautiful, which are about 10,000 inhabitants, from the Lesaka area, Bera, etc. We attend, therefore, Navarra and the Basque-French part (Iparralde), we attend interhospital communications, and we attend to the serious problems that are detected. The advanced life support unit with Donostia's doctor doesn't work for that. Not only do they not meet international criteria and recommendations, but it is not possible, if we want, of course, that the isocrones, distances and times are adequate. And I insist on the subject of brain-time and heart-time. These are the essential problems in the mortality of these two pathologies, in the ability to survive. What's more, medical doctors, advanced life support with doctors...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u83	Then I'll keep going! [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u84	You'll be back next time. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. Uria, good morning to all of you. The net of sanitary transport from Esquimia Hospitals is spread abroad all over the country, and the management of the Osacombs co-operates in a collection of resources. This set of resources is distributed throughout the community, and is distributed – as you know well and we share, Mr.Uria – with criteria of effectiveness and equity of the care response. It has mainly the risks, the orographic and sociological characteristics, the distances to hospitals (don't forget that the region of Bidasoa has a district hospital there; not in all areas of Euskadi – and I'm not referring specifically to Toulouse – there is a hospital in the region), and also accessibility. It is coordinated from Osakidetza emergencies, and allows an adequate response to the demand for care, transfers in emergencies and health emergencies. And I tell you this because I was really surprised by the sudden concern of your group about the urgent health transport of the Bidasoa region, especially when this year, in the budget presented in February, there was an amendment to the budget of the Department of Health with an amount to improve the provision of urgent health transport in the Bidasoa region. I do not remember exactly what was the meaning of your group's vote on that amendment; now in the second round you will be able to remind me of that. But, well, there was an amendment tabled, debated and adopted in this House to improve the provision of emergency health transport in the Bidasoa region. I suppose this fact answers the question itself, and there is no doubt about the will of the Basque Government's Department of Health to improve the allocation of resources in that region. You mentioned the stroke code and the infarct code. I share the concern with you. You have omitted, and you know it, that in the state and European comparison our global response times to the stroke code and the infarction code are of the best and fall within the standard marked by the European society both of neurology and of cardiology, and specifically in the infarction code, as you also know, the Bihotzez network, implemented by the Department of Health in the past legislature, has had an intense job. It is true that we have proposed a change in the health transport situation in Bidasoa which has aroused concern in the municipalities. That's why we met with the mayors last week, and I'm not going to drop the rings when I tell him I gave him the reason, that what the area really needs is not to implement one of the two basic support resources, but to increase one of the advanced ones, as we passed it on to the mayors. In any case, and taking advantage of your inquiry, I will also spend a few minutes explaining the different modes of health transport that you have dealt with. As I said, emergency care and emergency health care is made up of a set of resources distributed in the three territories, which work in a network – very important: they work in a network – and are coordinated from emergencies by medical professionals 24 hours a day every day of the year, to give the best response according to the resources available and the situation at every moment. The network consists of continuous care points, home emergencies, hospital emergencies, intensive care units, basic life support units, advanced life support units, both with a doctor and a nurse, and also the health transport helicopter that the community has. Road health transport is regulated by Royal Decree 836/2012, which sets out the technical characteristics of health equipment and the staffing of land-based health vehicles, and is defined as non-care ambulances intended solely for health transport, and care ambulances, the main feature of which is that on-road health care is permitted. Within the latter there are several categories: those of basic life support, and those of advanced life support. Those of advanced life support (classified as class C), as you very well said, in addition to a technician in health emergencies bring a doctor or doctor or a nurse or nurse. Before you proceed to the specific resources and specific sites you are speaking of, it is very important to give you these facts and explanations. It is absolutely necessary that we should be able to perform our public health system. It's one of the main axis lines of behavior. It's necessary for the fun and the department, without making any exception. As for the matter of emergency, the changes and conditions which arise in the three historical regions are always and everywhere present. Considering the trial that keeps going, I want to tell you this: The resources which are in the gym are divided into the whole territory with sufficient balance. I will remember the resources with which you count Gipuzkoa, as you have rightly said. Currently, in Donostia we have two advanced life support units, one with a doctor and one with a nurse, in addition to four basic life support units. In Zarautz we have an advanced life support unit with a nurse, which is reinforced with an extraordinary resource during the summer months, and we also have three advanced life support units with a doctor in Elgoibar, Toulouse and Arrasate. And we have sixteen basic life support units in Andoain, Arrasate, Azpeitia, Beasain, Bergara, Deba, Eibar, Elgoibar, Hernani, Lasarte, Renteria, Toulouse, Zumaia, Zumarraga, Hondarribia and Irun. In short, Gipuzkoa has six units of advanced life support, twenty units of basic life support, and the reinforcements that are put in place in summer to care for a population that, according to the Eustat, is 710,699 inhabitants. The resources of Araba and Bizkaia were pointed out, but I will not detail them to the locality. But I will tell you that Araba, with a population of 322,335 inhabitants and 80% concentrated in its capital, Vitoria-Gasteiz, has four units of advanced life support and eleven units of basic life support, in addition to the reinforcements that we put in summer, mainly in Rioja Alavesa. And Bizkaia, to serve a population of 1,138,852 inhabitants, has eleven advanced life support units and twenty-five basic life support units. With what if you do the analysis, which I am sure you will have done, you will see how it is not precisely the territory of Gipuzkoa that has the least resources in health transport, and the resources, many or few, are quite balanced and giving a satisfactory answer. I do not want to fall into the simplification of a reality that as a whole is complex and needs to be analysed from a global perspective. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that emergency management is always dynamic; there are no resources in an area or region that develop their activity statically in that area. Management from the focal points benefits from the movement of units in preventive format to cover areas where resources may be occupied. In addition to resources, we have a helicopter, which has good accessibility in times to all sites, given the size of Euskadi, but there is indeed some area in which it does not reach the vicinity of the hospital. Specifically one is the Bidasoa region, and it is also our goal to be able to dispose of that resource. You have made mention of cross-border agreements, you have made mention of the motorway, you have made mention of Navarra... Look, since 2005, the resources of the Bidasoa region have not changed; therefore, many people have spent analyzing the system, and, counting on what is and counting on the risks, it is in this legislature, in the 2017 budget, when it is planned to increase resources. In short, Mr. Uria, we believe that the net of sanitarian transports from Euskal Autonomy Hospitals, in general, provides a proper service. However, we must always try to make things better by this goal, in the budgets of 2017, we planned to improve the health rate of the emergency road in the Bidasa region and we'll do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u87	Bakartxo Tejeria, I'll be brief. You do not know how glad I am, us and our parliamentary group, that the Health Department has heard both the criticisms, proposals and suggestions of the ESK union and the meeting with the mayors of the area, namely Irun, Mr Santano, and Hondarribia, Mr Sagarzazu. How glad I am that you have made the decision to actually locate, place an advanced life support ambulance with a doctor in the Bidasoa region. That's good news. We must always be flexible, as you say, and, although resources have not changed since 2005, it is perceived in the population, institutions and emergency workers in the area that this is necessary. He has not commented, I comment briefly: the advanced life support ambulance of Donostia serves 427,000 inhabitants, 60% of the population of Gipuzkoa, and the rest of the three advanced life support ambulances with doctors located in Elgoibar, Toulouse and Arrasate serve 290,000 inhabitants. Logically, the geographical dispersion component is fundamental to locating our resources and seeking their efficiency. Allow me very briefly some reflections on why I raised it – and once the issue is resolved, which will be resolved sooner than later ( congratulations) –, reflections on why I say this is the tip of the iceberg and why our political group is concerned. Before the sessions began I already told you, Mr. Counsellor, that we have a problem with public transport in Euskadi. I just want to remind you of four matters. First, there are continuing labour disputes in the Basque public transport sector in recent years. Keep going. Two: the lack of audit by the Department of Health on the quality of the concerted and proper service and its work is obvious. And I'm not talking about facility audit; I'm talking about functionality audit, times audit, patient opinion audit, etc. Three: the insufficient financial dimension to meet the health problems and the demand of patients in the field of urgency in all three territories is evident. Four: the fragmentation of companies and trade union representation in the private and concerted sector complicates the negotiation processes of the sector. Don't think we don't realize it. For example, in what we are talking about, only in Gipuzkoa, about the four advanced life-service ambulances, two are private and two are public. Five: the urgency to carry out a diagnosis of the own and concerted sector of the emergency and of the network of ambulances, in order to adapt the resources, their qualification, the staff and the working conditions is important, is necessary. In our opinion, the best scenario is a public health transport company in Euskadi, with controls, with protocols, with evaluation of its functioning, which could be called "euskal osasun-garraioa", which overcomes these problems. But let's start by putting the advanced life support ambulance with a doctor in Bidasoa. And we will continue to speak, because the legislature is long, counselor. I wish you – with all due respect, I say to you – that since you do not enter the services of the Osakidetza emergency network as a whole it will..., not break, but it will have dysfunctionalities, much more than we can imagine. The emergency and the transport network are parts of the system, and the fragmentation and lack of audits of the concerted system will create problems for us and will discredit systems that sometimes work well and sometimes regular. And also sometimes they will create concern in our population, because, as the mayors of the area rightly say, you do not play with these issues and with these issues. Indeed, you know that I participated in the brain-time research process, and I do know state and international comparisons. We are not wrong, which does not mean that there are no points with inadequate and insufficient resources, as is the case with us, which you have already entered into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u89	Uria jauna, the Department of Health and Osakidetza have the will and will improve emergency resources in the Bidasoaldea region. In addition to maintaining the basic life support resources currently available, it is our intention to implement new resources, and try to make greater use of existing ones. To exploit each and every one of the resources that make up the emergency care network it is essential to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the situation and needs, but without incurring the error of analysing recourse to recourse, as if it were independent of the emergency network. In addition, both road and air health transport should be taken into account. And it's not a rabbit in a joke, it's a reality: there is a helicopter, it improves certain times, it can make many interhospital transfers in very good conditions, and we are obliged to use it. Thus, considering these aspects as a whole, we consider that the Osakidetza emergency helicopter is unused, and we must therefore facilitate it to land in an area near the hospital. Therefore, I will summarise: we are working to improve emergency health transport in the Bidasoa region, the current basic life support resources will be maintained, we are studying the implementation of a new advanced life support unit. I haven't heard you think about what a doctor can do who can't do a nurse in health care. I didn't hear that thought. In any case, I do not have a wand; therefore, we will implement a new advanced life support unit with nurse or doctor, depending on the analysis we determine. And we also hope to have a helicopter for use by the emergency helicopter. You have asked me for an audit of the quality of health transport. I'll tell him I'm surprised. You have been a member of the Bizkaia Territorial Delegation, you know exactly what is being done with regard to health transportation, and you know that health transportation does not control it by the advisor (it is not for that), but it is controlled by the official staff attached to the Department of Health, who periodically makes a report on each of the services provided. You are talking about financial insufficiency, but you have not answered me, you have not answered me: did you make any Elkarrekin amendments Can we go to the 2017 budget of this government on scheduled or urgent health transport in this Community? In any case, you'll have a chance to do it next year, and I'll discuss it, too, eh! I'll discuss it. You've been betting on a public health transport company. Look, I don't share it. Nor must I be a rare opinion, because there is none in the state! And if you look at the European landscape, not always looking to the south, then you will see that the transport situation is very variable, and the model of quality of operation of health transport does not depend on whether it is public or concerted. And in this community and in the rest of the state this benefit has always been agreed upon, but in any case, since you are a state-level party and support governments in other communities, you can give me an example for the 2018 budget by telling me that in one of the communities where you support the government has been published, and I will gladly send the technicians of the Department of Health to see the results, the costs and the improvement of service. And I agree with you that health transportation is a very important benefit. It has improved noticeably, from the coordinating centers, it has been improving by implementing resources, it has been doing more training in those resources...; if you look back, the number of advanced life support ambulances with nurse or doctor has been improving, it may be that slowly, but it has been improving; it has been incorporating the helicopter, a very expensive resource but that for populations far away from the centers, that we have them, we have them... We have Ondarroa away from the nearest hospital, we have Lekeitio, we have Karrantza, we have other... This is not the case with Bidasoa, which has a regional hospital there, but, in any case, we have the firm will to have a quality health transport and to improve resources in the area of Bidasoa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u90	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, a member of the Podemos legalist to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the City Hall of Urduña." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u91	Counselor, the Town Hall of Orduña manages a municipal residence with a collective kitchen. In 2009 it was proposed to use that collective kitchen to serve the dining room of the municipal school, which – if you have not been there, I show you a photo – is located just five meters away. My question is: What are the reasons your department has been preventing this kitchen from serving both dining rooms since 2014?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u93	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Becerra, I'll answer your question directly because your question is quite correct. The reason is very plain: The necessity of regulating regulations and of securing the security conditions of food and food, still more so when we treat of the security of children. As you will understand, we obey and execute the regulations that are in force. I know perfectly well that there are five meters away from the public school to the elderly residence, but they are independent buildings, and there is a regulation that must be complied with, be they public or private facilities. The regulation is the same for everyone, and the reason why it has not been allowed to date is very simple. It is not because of the intervention of this councillor or of any high political office, but it has not been allowed simply because the technicians of the Department of Health have so far considered that the kitchen of the municipal residence of Orduña cannot elaborate the menus for the school, with the current health regulations on food security, without the precise modifications in the kitchen for the food security of the residence of elderly and children. In any case, I think you know that you are working with the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, with the Department of Education, with the Town Hall of Orduña and with the elderly residence in order to give the best possible solution to this situation that we share with you. We want to give them security, we want to respect the rules, and we want it to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u95	Mr Councilman, you said that you wanted the rules to be complied with. I would have to say what that regulation is, because the problem that the Orduña City Council has right now is that they have demanded up to three different regulations, and each one is opposed. In 2009, his department informed the City of Orduña that, because the two dining rooms were not located in the same building, they had to meet the requirements of a central kitchen. That's how they did it. The municipality commissioned the project, and in October 2011 received this favorable report from its department. Endorsed by the Economic Central kitchen, favorable. 2011. Only with that process would the kitchen be legally enabled to function, but they were prudent in the city hall, and when in November 2014 they decided to serve the school, they cautiously again consulted their department to see if everything was right, and that was their mistake. There began his administrative calvary. Since then, nothing has been done but stick and demand new conditions. When in December of last year the city council, after meeting all the requirements that were demanded of it, will see if everything is in order, your department decides to change the rules of play for them – you will know why; I do not say that it is you personally, obviously – and tell them that they now have to comply with the rules of a kitchen for collective services, that is, of a catering kitchen. Of course, to a kitchen of 85 square meters, prepared to elaborate two hundred menus, they require the regulations of a catering company prepared, for example, for twenty thousand menus, and, of course, it does not have enough dimensions and now they tell them that it is not large enough. But it doesn't end there. I'll show you the picture again. You have required as a condition a cold felling equipment, to cool food here, move it five meters and warm it five meters beyond. And they have also demanded a transport vehicle, because, of course, as they have demanded it to be a catering kitchen...! A transport vehicle to pass these five meters. Even so, the Town Hall of Orduña was put to work and demanded a four-month extension. Well, because you refused them the extension in April, and in May you refused them the authorization. With what regulations? For they have applied the regulations of meat slaughterhouses and cutting rooms. And, as far as I know, the residences of the elderly are not yet defined. This is simply incredible, because, after all this history of legal and administrative misconceptions, this issue has ceased to be an administrative issue to be a political problem. Because right now you have the Ararteko, who sees with amazement how this is a case of a manual of administrative maltreatment; the Department of Agriculture, who has obtained European funding for the project and who will see how the funds are lost; the Department of Education, who included this dining room in the pilot project of school eaters and sees that this does not go ahead, and dozens of families, who went to the Llodio district health centre yesterday to ask for explanations as to why a simple school eater has been changed up to three times the rules of application and right now do not know what to stay with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u97	Mr Becerra, you will understand for obvious reasons that in 2009 and 2011 I do not know what could have happened. I'll ask in the department. I'll ask. I repeat to you again, although we agree with the purpose and intent of the project, by which it is intended to facilitate the supply of school menus from the kitchen of the elderly residence, neither can nor should be done in any way. The kitchen of the elderly residence has been authorized since 2000 as an institutional dining room, allowing only meals to be prepared for consumption in its own centre. And I agree that there's only one street, but if we change the rules to get them across the street, it'll be for everyone. Our own regulations, as well as the state, in the case of institutional dining rooms prohibit the extraction of food and products prepared for consumption in other dining rooms. Besides – you haven't mentioned it, but I'm going to tell you – the kitchen in the residence is suitable for preparing menus for about fifty people, but it's not very clear that you can safely prepare 180 additional menus. In addition, under no circumstances is the kitchen prepared to prepare special menus, for allergies and intolerances that are increasingly common among children. Consequently, it is not possible to authorize the supply to the school from the dining room without making the necessary adaptations to convert the current institutional kitchen into a central kitchen; adaptations that are neither very complex nor very expensive. A meeting has recently been held with the city council and the residence, where possible solutions have been studied, and the city council has been informed of the need to present a project for the adequacy of the facilities in which we are told that they are working. We know that in Urduña there has been a movement in favor of this project. We want this project to come forward, and we're doing everything that's in our power, always respecting the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Cianova Alonso Presidency to the chief of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, about the project of constructing a macro-place on the Sandhorn. " Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u99	Hello. Good noon, everyone. On the 10th of June, the meeting in the whole of the sandland was composed of the new PUU, the new PUU, and in this new plan of the urbanistic plan, the rest of the plan is to make a new construction on the Knightwood grounds, to make a new macro utlet, and there is a company that has a project and we know that it is a firm purpose and a project that has been made, and now a green light with the new PnU. As, therefore, he will have the consequence in several degrees in the execution of this project, we desire to know what the opinion of the chief physician is about. It will be a just one in the small commerce of the neighbourhood, and in the whole commerce of trade; and we desire to know what you intend to do with this project, especially for the little commerce which you consider useful to you, and what is the feeling of your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u100	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Casanova, this very morning at this very parliamentary seat I had the opportunity to refer to government action in support of the commercial sector. He said this morning that in the Euskadi 2020 government programme, and on the axis of the objective of solid growth with more and better jobs, there was a 31st commitment, which says "Promoting the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector". And among the initiatives of this commitment was the support for local trade and the promotion of its competitiveness as a key element for the consolidation of employment and the dynamism of towns and cities. If we go to departmental detail, the programmes we develop have among their fundamental objectives this support for local trade, urban trade and proximity trade. Programmes such as the MEC, aimed at encouraging the modernisation of commercial establishments; the one mentioned earlier this morning Hirigune, aimed at municipalities and associations, or aid for technical offices of commerce. And I could go on, but time is limited. In any case, and as I have already stated on some other occasion, it is a priority of this department to preserve the model of proximity trade, both for reasons of economy, activity and employment, and for reasons of urban development and balance. However, it is also the view of this department that in the current scenario there is room for other larger business models, such as large areas or large commercial complexes. Basque consumers opt for both modalities and even for other emerging ones, such as e-commerce. That is also clear to me that a balance between the two models is necessary for the Basque trading ecosystem. In relation to the competition that these other modalities may entail for the proximity trade, and since we understand that there is room for both business models in Basquedi – always in a balanced way, I insist – I do not simply assume, therefore, that a large commercial area automatically has a negative effect on the proximity trade, as seems to be deduced from your question. However, the characteristics he points out, in terms of the location and amplitude of the project (40,000 square meters of surface), certainly seem to break the balance to which he previously referred, in addition to other possible impacts on the road network by concentration of flows, etc. In this respect, I bring to mind that two other similar centers that exist in Spain, Las Rozas in Madrid or La Roca Village in Barcelona – and we are talking about Madrid and Barcelona – have 17,000 square meters and 24,000 square meters each, respectively. It seemed, he said, that the area finally devoted to this commercial activity would be limited to 25,000 square meters, not to 40,000, but, in fact, I still find many, even though there are still many elements missing on what will be the final materialization of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u102	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u103	Yes, Mr Councilman, I would ask you to wet yourself a little bit more, not to read me statements of good intentions on support for small trade and to make a more concrete assessment on this issue. Because already, for example, in the plenary session of the Irun City Council a unanimous motion has been voted, with the agreement of all groups, rejecting this project for the impact it will have on the commercial environment. Even in the plenary of the City Hall of Hondarribia, when the General Plan for Urban Planning was approved, it was approved only and exclusively with the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party, which has an absolute majority, and its own party abstained, among other things, because it was against this project. Therefore, as a Trade, Tourism and Consumer Adviser, do not profile yourself against a problem of this nature. Because, of course, your government and the previous government... , all governments come to say that they are in favour of small trade! No one comes to say "I come to destroy the small trade and to put the red carpet on the big surfaces"! But one thing is speeches and another is practice. We have Garbera's problem, which is going to expand because the PTS fell. And the PTS fell and continues to lie down because its government has not moved a finger to make a new PTS of Commercial Activities that restricts, as previously there was a regulation that restricted the implementation of new surfaces. Because we all understand that there is a place, indeed, for the small, for the medium and for the great, but some understand that the places for the great are already saturated, are filled, and there is no need for new surfaces. Because this is a zero sum game: what the big guys are going to catch is going to be taken away by the little guys. Here a greater demand is not going to be generated by the art of magic, because that is studied. The trade sector is like this. And, therefore, this is going to be a huge aggression for the small trade sector. And I believe that you, as Trade Advisor, have to do what you need to do is get wet; don't do a global analysis of your policies and say "I'm in favour" or "I'm against." And if I'm against... Hey, we're talking about the City Hall of Hondarribia, ruled by the Basque Nationalist Party, with which you're sharing government. We are not talking about rules in Brussels or Madrid or other areas, which are outside our political competence. So, if you see that this is a misconception, as seen in Irun and as seen in Hondarribia by all political parties except the one holding the mayor's office, and as I think it is seen throughout the small trade sector, you are obviously expected to have a stronger attitude and try to put all the political and legal means in your hand to prevent this misconception from being consumed. Because we really also have reason to distrust this government, because we already see that things are said in favour of small trade, and then in practice I mentioned the subject of Garbera, I mentioned the passivity before the PTS... In the last legislature we had the question of areas of great tourist influx, where there was an attempt by the previous government to make an expansive application, and that in Donostia has now been made, with the new municipal government, an expansive application of areas of great tourist influx. We also have in Bilbao the bet for a commercial model that favors large surfaces... And so, well, I have reason to be skeptical. Therefore, I ask you for clarity, I ask you for a position, I ask you for a clear position in favour of or against this project, and for action as a result of that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u105	He's asking me for clarity. I have already told you: I believe that a basic criterion is that of balance. I do not deny the presence of large surfaces, but the need for balance. And I have told you that the information there is about the project, about its extent and its location, actually seems to break that balance. But I also told you, and it was pointed out in that motion to which you alluded, that the information is not yet complete, we do not know exactly what will be the dedication of that macro-project or of that commercial investment project, which would, it seems, occupy, at the end 25,000 square meters. I know the position of the socialist councillor in the municipality of Hondarribia in that debate, I know the motion that was actually adopted unanimously by all the groups in the Irun City Council, and I also know – although not directly transmitted to me, I should also say – the complaints that have been shown by some associations of traders, including environmental groups. And, therefore, we will keep an eye on the development of this issue. But, as you also know, the weight of the PTS has also been suspended in one of the elements; it has been suspended by judgement of the Supreme Court. But I also know that we are working precisely to regain control of that plan...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, the parliamentary members of the Podemos team for Cultura and the Chief of Policy Language, about EITB's style book." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u107	sir: Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. Zupiria, chief physician. Here, as we said today, the EIB style book has begun to socialize among the workers. For ever, with a want of share, we think you understand the conduct of this public service. Since several regulations concerning the treatment of the Euscaia have changed, it will have a direct influence on the presence of the eucaia in the median chains and channels. So can you explain to us what changes these changes are in the media during the media? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u108	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u109	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. The EIB style book you mention on your question is the first one our radiotelebre has ever accepted. And it's the product of a lot of people's work for years. As it is expressed in it, "There are some professors of the Basque Country University who have worked very hard on this particular mission." It is not, therefore, a work that had been created and made at home, but which had been entrusted to the university at its first moment. The direction of EIB, also, and the director of the news from EIB, and the editor of the Basque Director, and also the contrast of his professionals. And this book which has been approved for the last time is also the result of experience in years. And before the management has accepted it, it has had several contrasts with journalists and professionals who are obliged to carry the criteria here to practice. I do not think that the criteria which have been admitted, and those published in this book, could by any means be injurious to the Basques, I think the contrary. As for the place where the Euscarese ought to be in the Spanish media of EIB, the starting-point of the style-book is clear, and the mind is clear. And thus saith the Book, word in word in this section: "In this society of ours with more than one language, EITB is a strategic furrow to promote and normalize the position of continuing in the media." And then he takes it off: "It is an important step in which to give a place in the Spanish canals to the eucalyptus. The aim is to make the eloquent reality of society of euscal visible, and to prepare himself for the eucalyptic, without ever being at the expense of an informative interest and an audience." From that point on, the book delivers the opportunity of language and the choice of the person to whom it is necessary to make statements, and proposes, as it were, that the journalist will invite him to speak in two languages. If the interview decides to speak one language, EIB will respect that decision. In addition, EIB's style book proposes that in the case of children, teenagers, and younger men, the evidence of eucalyptic evidence will be preferred to the EITB media. In the case of politics, artists, sports, experts, and well-known faces, he says that to come out of the media is to give the language prestige. In all cases, springs of conduct are planned. These are, in short, the plan and criterion of treatment in the EIB media of youth. Very reasonable, I think.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u111	Yes, Mr. Chief physician. Well, thanks for bringing me the book, I've seen it, but I'll give you a concrete example about it. How do you want it, Mr. Zupiria, in eucaine, in Spanish or both? If this was asked by a journalist, what would you say? Would you choose between your choice or both? But if it was the question, "We're going to interview each other in both languages?" What would the answer be? What the experts say is that there may be an obstacle here for the Basques. Statisticians, we know that many of them, for different reasons, and what the style book tells us, shows in the style book, is that the second formula will be used and not the first, much more problematical. The presence of Euchara demands, especially on television, exact measurements, and not ambiguity. That is to say, we can have good words in the book, but if the measures, in the opinions of experts, trouble us to restore the presence and normalization of the eucalyptus, then there's no use in putting beautiful words on a plan or book. As it appears in the contract program, EIB's engagement is strategic, you said it, and you'll read it to him just as long as the years go by. This presence is still very limited. The style book also puts at the moment two more conditions that do not appear before: the object is to make the Ellegous reality of society visible, and to prepare itself for the eucalyptic, without ever prejudice to the interest of the public and the judgment. So, what does this mean? What do these two conditions say? Is there anything that can be a Basque against an informal interest to reduce the presence of the Basques? And what does even the auditions mean? We cannot conceive how an audience may be offended by the use of an eucalyptus in the media. Besides, who would decide this? I think that subjectivity is too great or that it may contain itself in the applications of these principles, which are not at all objective. It's been a long time since we've said that, and the commitment to the Basques has not been fulfilled, we believe that this is from Podemos together. It's just an example of this style book. You hear very little of the Euskara chains, very little of them. And what we find here is the want of will, concretely the non-will of the direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u112	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u113	I, Mr Martínnez, can clearly see the subject, and I believe that the responsibilities are well prepared. I see three levels. The one belongs to the EIB administration, and has fulfilled its work by establishing and publishing its criteria. The second is for professionals, and I think that's obvious too. And the third is for us, who make statements to the protagonists. As is said in the book, we politicians have a great deal of talk and may be in our position and may be reference. Mr Martínnez, the frame based on the style book, when it comes to you, for instance, leaves the last word to you. If you want your shows on the EIB radio and televistes to be just for a few moments, it's clear and it's up to you, not EIB's. It is clear that when you make statements for the media, if you make them for the sake of the eucalyptic, EIB will respect your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u114	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 16th point in the theme list: "Internation by David Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the United States of the Basque Groups, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, as to the Basque Organization of the Medical Court." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, good morning to all. And good morning also to the representatives of the group of forensic doctors who have come today and are accompanying us in this session to hear the answer given by the Counsellor of Labour and Justice to the already historical claims they have raised on more than one occasion before this House. Mrs San José, at your appearance on 31 January of this exercise, when you came to this House to explain to us what the programme lines were going to be and the development of your government work in the two departments you run for this legislature, you made a very thorough speech, addressing each and every one of the needs you considered to have the department and where you were going to put your finger to solve citizens' problems. And in that long exhibition, he made no mention of one of the biggest problems that had occurred in the past legislature in the Department of Justice, which was nothing other than the strike of the forensic doctors' collective. That is why all opposition groups are asking you what your opinion on this conflict was. A historic conflict, since the transfer to the Basque public administration of forensic doctors who serve the Department of Justice in courts and tribunals. A conflict ended at the end of that last legislature, which brought them to the Commission on Security and Justice (then it was called this) to expose their claims, claims that had already led them to a strike. A strike that, like all strikes – and you know it well, which is responsible for Labour, in addition to Justice – carries multiple damages, in this case both for the workers themselves who had to make this decision and for the hundreds or thousands of citizens who saw their judicial proceedings slow down or paralyze themselves for that strike. They explained to us here what their demands were, which grouped them into three fundamental issues: one, the equalization of their level as officials, to guarantee and dignify a professional career; another, the rest periods they demanded to carry out their work well, after the periods of on-call that they had to fulfill, and, on the other hand, a series of training requirements that they asked Councillor Erkoreka, then responsible for the department, to make their work better. Those were the three basic issues. In that appearance they were reproached, one could say – I would dare to say that they even insulted – by those responsible for the council at that time, in response to quite worthy requests that politely had transferred us to all parliamentary groups. So it was, that from the EH Bildu group and from the Socialist Group a non-legislative proposal was prepared that I think you know well. That non-law proposal was flagged by Mr Arzuaga, who is with us today, and Mrs Gallastegui, who also seems to me to be with us today in defence of the interests of the group of forensic doctors. And he put the solutions that the political groups that we support her (i.e. the parliamentary majority) believed that they could put an end to this already historical problem, to this historical claim of the forensic medical group, that they pointed out to us that it was simply aimed at the death of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine, at its complete elimination, that it was unattractive for new doctors to want to join those functions. You made no mention of this issue in your speech, and when all the groups asked you it was, as always, very clear and very concise, and you told us that you were going to sit down and negotiate to agree on the line that Parliament had set. That was his response on January 31, 2017. The line that Parliament has marked..., and I will focus on the five points that the motion adopted on 13 June last. The first two points make it clear that a solution must be found to this historic request, and that the solution must be (in the second point) the equalization of at least all the members of the forensic medical corps, of the forensic medical corps at level 27-IIB of the scale of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and its subsequent assessment, in the monographs of each of the jobs, in accordance with the Statute of the Public Employee of the Community, in force at that time and now, because it has not been reformed. Well, well, that's what you said that's what you were going to do, within that speech in which you were continually appealing to dialogue. You said in that appearance that it was no coincidence that you were running the Department of Labour and Justice, and that you were going to harmonize both. And you constantly repeated the word dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, and called on the parties, in the field of labour relations, which are their competence, to sit down and negotiate. Good. Those words did not leave the group that accompanies us today very calm, because already a few days before their appearance they had sent the vice-counsel a letter asking for a table to sit down and negotiate. That letter didn't get an answer. They waited a while, and in March they sent another letter urging again to sit at a table to negotiate. Logically, the negotiating framework was very clear: she had defended, she had personally flagged the defense of that collective in this very rostrum for which he was then responsible, Mr Erkoreka. Nor did they receive a reply to that second letter. There was a third in which they had to ask the unions to sit down and negotiate with their department, and that had an answer. A meeting was convened, and the Deputy Counsellor attended the meeting. But at the time when the presentations were made of who the new director was and who were present (apart from union representatives, members or representatives of the forensic doctors' collective), she got up and left. That's where the dialogue ended. I ask you, Counselor: Is that the dialogue that you, in this case as a company, as a party, as responsible for the officials of your department, are asking for in the Labour Relations Council? Is that the dialogue that calls for companies and trade union representatives? I want to focus my question on a very simple question: When are you going to fulfill your word, Mrs San José? On 31 January he said he was going to comply, he was going to sit down and negotiate, and he was going to agree on the terms approved by this Parliament. And the terms approved by this Parliament are the non-legislative proposal adopted on June 13, 2016. I don't ask her if she's going to comply with it, because she already told us she was going to comply with it, and because I also understand that, if that proposal was defended, it was flagged – and with a lot of vigour and vehemence, as was usual – by Mrs Gallastegui, I understand that she will be happy to comply with it. I don't think one thing is said in this rostrum and another thing is said when one sits on government banks. Therefore, I ask you when you will fulfill it directly. And if you're going to tell me that you're not going to do it, I'd be very surprised, very upset, and I'd ask you in that case when your vice-counsel is going to stop, or when you're going to leave for not doing your word, given to this House on January 31, 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, before entering the background of your inquiry, allow me to make a statement on my assessment of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. And I want to do it because in the last few days I have been listening to various statements about it, and you just said it in this rostrum, regarding the survival of this institute. First of all, I should like to say that all those who make up the staff of the Administration of Justice, regardless of their administrative background, deserve my consideration, because they are the ones who make possible the public service of justice that we provide and improve it day by day. On the other hand, as you well know, the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine was created two years after the transfers of material and personal resources to the service of the Administration of Justice. The decree adopted in 1998 which gave light to the institute was a historic landmark in the establishment of bodies to assist the administration of justice in this Autonomous Community, as well as a pioneering reference in the rest of the State. There were problems in the early stages, but there is no doubt that today we have an indispensable instrument at the service of the courts and tribunals (and I say essential). It has been constituted as a technical body that carries out expert, tanatological, clinical and laboratory tests; it has also become a reference for forensic medicine in Euskadi. This work is carried out by highly qualified personnel, who have followed a long process of expertise, and professionals who have specialized in psychiatry, pathological anatomy and traumatology, all complementary training paid by the Basque Administration that has joined the initial university training. The conclusion of this process is that today Basque citizenship has an ideal instrument that can investigate the most complex situations and that allows our courts and tribunals to provide justice with due reports and with the necessary rigour. The reports of our Basque Institute of Legal Medicine are essential to clarify homicides, traffic accidents, accidents at work, injuries, sexual assaults, etc. Therefore, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, if you or anyone asked me today whether we can dispense or not, or even reduce the presence of the institute, I would strongly say no. I am fully convinced of its usefulness, but I also assure you that, as I said at the beginning, the true strength I see in the people who provide their services in it. I will now enter into the matter that you are asking me about, which is about my purpose to meet the requests of the forensic medical team, and in particular about the demand for wage equalization. For in this case I want to be blunt: my purpose is to meet and give satisfactory solution to the demands raised. I will repeat to you what I said in my appearance, that I have not forgotten, that I have it in mind. And I will repeat it to you in writing: "I am committed at this time, in line with this Parliament, to reaching agreement with the trade union representatives of the Basque forensic doctors on satisfactory working conditions". This means, without a doubt, that my reference remains the agreement adopted by a very large majority in this Parliament on 13 June 2016, and, as we all know, it refers to giving a definitive way to the debt with the group of forensic doctors, which is summed up in wage equalisation, a continuous training plan, and the breaks resulting from the provision of the guard service. I must also tell you that for me this is all immersed in the fourth regulatory agreement on working conditions, which was signed in the summer of 2010 by the then councilwoman, Mrs Mendia, and that today I am determined to continue to fill in with content. I understand that both you and the collective urge me after seven months to resolve the problem raised, but I can assure you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that we have not been standing still all this time. Please note that the day-to-day work of the department has been combined with the work of preparing the government programme or budgets, and above all, with regard to the matter, the final configuration of a department that was born out of the merger of parts previously included in two others. I would like to remind you that until 21 April, the organizational and functional structure of the Department of Labour and Justice was not approved, and that, being aware of the importance of managing people for my department, I proposed to divide the functions previously assigned to one directorate (the Administration of Justice) into two directions, leading to the creation of the Directorate for Modernization of the Judicial and Fiscal Office. The aim was nothing other than to be able to deal more effectively and efficiently with issues such as the one we are dealing with, and to achieve greater specialization. However, during the first three months of this year, various contacts and fluid communication with the representatives of the Administration of Justice took place, until a formal meeting was reached on 28 March 2017, at which the parties established a working route to address the various outstanding issues. Following the appointment of the new Director of Administration of Justice, a meeting was convened on 29 May at which, in addition to the meeting, representatives of the trade unions Commissions, ELA, Cesif, LAB and UGT attended to resume the issues and continue with the road map marked at the March meeting. Then, since 12 June, bilateral meetings have taken place with each of the trade unions. All of this will lead us to conclude that, within the shortest possible period of time, we can properly propose an offer that satisfies the need for you to ask me and others who are on the table and who must have their corresponding treatment. There is one thing I would like to stress to you, Your Honor, and it is that, from the point of view of the problem, I want it not to be raised at the negotiating table in the collective of false workers who can again frustrate them. I have a firm decision that when we sit at that table it is to conclude a situation that – I agree with you – is going too long in time. I insist, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that my references to make the proposal will be no more than the fourth regulatory agreement on terms and conditions and agreed here in Parliament in June 2016. It will agree with me that, with the background that exists, it is necessary to draw up a rigorous proposal that will solve a problem with different edges, some more delicate than others, and for which their due time is required. I shall now turn to the specific aspects contained in what has been adopted in this Parliament. Training. My view is that a real training plan is established based on the elaboration of a study-diagnosis of training needs, which identifies the professional competencies to be developed by the staff and analyses the current competencies that they are able to apply. And from there the existing deficit is fixed and the enabling training actions are programmed, with their budget and validation. I recognize that this scientific methodology has not been used in the preparation of training plans for forensic doctors. Therefore, on 1 June, the Director of Administration of Justice contacted the Basque Institute of Public Administration to ask her to provide for a study of the characteristics I have described to her. In spite of this, I can tell you that from the moment we take over the reins of the Department of Labour and Justice we have promoted, based on the proposal of the management, the continuous training among the staff of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. Guards. I would like to show you our willingness to analyse this situation and, taking into account state regulations, to review and negotiate the necessary changes in the training of guards. However, I can assure you that during the course of this year there have been no incidents in relation to the claim raised at the time concerning the violation of the right to uninterrupted rest of eleven hours. Wages and salaries. You put it to me as particularly relevant in your inquiry, and I agree that it is the trunk element of the matter we are dealing with, and that it is the most complicated to resolve. I must also say that this is the subject that we are dealing with most carefully, and on which we do not want to raise expectations again among the group of forensic doctors who can then be frustrated. The reference is equivalence to level 27-IIB. You know that on 18 May a proposal was put forward by the then-responsible in the Government, which I did not satisfy the forensic doctors. Believe me, we are studying a proposal that resolves the differences and can be negotiated and accepted by both parties. I ended up reiterating my absolute willingness to conclude an issue that has been on my desk for seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u118	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs San José, I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the House give 10 minutes to the interpeller and another 10 minutes to the interpeller in the first round, but no one says that it is ten minutes mandatory. And you've spent your ten minutes talking to us about a lot of things, but you haven't answered the question I asked you. And I'm going to formulate it again, to see if in your second speech you give us all a clear and simple answer, as a yes or no can be. Because you are talking about a pay level that seems to be truncated, that seems to be important, and I am talking to you about an agreement in this House that clearly says equalization, at least, of level 27-IIB. From there, valuation. From there, the framework agreement. At the very least, equalization. Are you going to do it, or are you not going to do it? The answer is very simple! If you tell me you're going to comply, I'll ask you again: when? Because they're here! When are you going to sit down and negotiate with them? It's very simple. We finish this inquiry, and the other two questions – one on this same subject – that remain, and it has nothing more to do with bringing together the collective who is here, with the vice-counsel who is there, closing the agendas, and deciding when to sit down. We can leave it for after the summer. Why, if we can do it next week, counselor? It's very simple: are you going to comply, or are you not going to comply? You tell me that you do not want to raise false expectations in the collective to which we are referring today. Did the vice-counsel raise false expectations by drafting a motion that I amended and approved by Mr Arzuaga, and the entire parliamentary majority? Were you cheating on that group because we were in pre-election time? Some responsibility you'll have! You said on 31 January that you were going to comply with the line set by Parliament. Isn't that sitting around negotiating, Mrs. San José? Fear gives me the image of dialogue or the idea of dialogue that you have for negotiations with the workers in the part that touches you as a company! If that is the attitude you are demanding of others, fulfill it with yourself, Mrs San José, which is very simple. Tell me when you're gonna do it. It can be done, it's legal to do so, and you know it, and it's no economic breach for public arks. Because, Mrs. San José, you say that the issue of remuneration is truncated. No, no, When this House demanded that equality we were not only talking about a level of pay, and you know it or should know it, although, with the surprises it is giving me this morning, you don't even know it. The problem with the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine is that no one wants to enter, because it turns out that in the rest of the administrations where forensic doctors can serve the pay level is higher, and no one wants to come here, and the necessary relief is not taking place. In less than ten years, part of the staff will have retired. With that level of remuneration that you want to impose – which you don't negotiate, because you haven't sat down to negotiate yet, and it's been seven months now – with that level of remuneration, counselor, what you're going to get is that any young person who finishes his medical studies, who is quite complicated, and wants to think of a job, decides to go to any other specialty in which he's going to have a decent, or more dignified remuneration within the public administrations, in particular our Basque public administration. Therefore, if you continue with that attitude, Mrs. San José, of not answering the questions, of not telling us when you will fulfill it, and if you will strictly comply... There is no interpretation of that agreement adopted by this House! If you're going to do it, when you're going to do it. Because if you don't, Mrs. San José, you're going to be responsible for certifying the death of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u121	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I think it has become clear in my first speech. It has become clear that my intention is to fix and solve a problem and claims that have been raised for a long time, and that I am aware that their non-satisfaction gave rise to a strike situation that lasted for several months. I can only tell you today that I'm going to sit with the forensic doctors, that we're going to negotiate with the forensic doctors, that we're going to reach an agreement. Meetings for this negotiation are soon to be held. And, of course, it's going to be done as soon as possible, which I also want to pass on to you. I can't go any further today. I have already told you that we are working on this proposal to satisfy forensic doctors, and I am sure it will satisfy them. And we do not want any more disagreements with them, and so allow me that discretion as to when it will be offered. In any case, I would like to reiterate that it is our intention to address the equalization and valuation of posts raised in the fourth regulatory agreement on conditions. I think I have made clear what the working references are, what limits we have, and the department's willingness to negotiate, sit down, dialogue and reach agreements, of course. But I would also like to say that because of the importance we attach to this work, which you have also said is not just about equality, our actions are not just solving a problem of demands on the part of the staff. And from the moment I took over the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Justice we have launched other interventions in relation to the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. I'll comment on some of them. In order to detect possible occupational safety and health disorders, between December 2016 and January 2017 the technical staff of the prevention services of Justice and General Administration, with the collaboration of the persons working in the units of the forensic laboratory service of Bilbao, have carried out an on-site study to assess the occupational risks of each of the posts and endowments. As a result of this performance, in April 2017 the document "Remedial actions" was prepared, which refer to the forensic laboratory service and the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. Because for the implementation of a management plan it is necessary to take into account the general framework of the institute. Corrective actions concern such important issues as safety, training, information, work organisation... And by way of example, and within safety, there is the improvement of the warning mechanisms due to gas problems, as can be oxygen level detector, light and acoustic signalling and explanatory signage. As a complement to these, training and information activities are carried out. On the other hand, it is our intention to enhance the role of the forensic laboratory, a high-tech tool at the service of the Administration of Justice. In addition, trying to allow forensic doctors to increase their professional skills, we have signed a collaboration agreement with the Ministry's Center for Legal Studies to enable them to participate in face-to-face training actions related to the psychiatric clinic and DNA study, in addition to continuing to take advantage of the ones that this program online. And in conclusion, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, we are ready to sit down, negotiate with forensic doctors as soon as possible, and bring you a proposal that I believe will certainly satisfy your demands. Always based on the agreement that was signed here with the majority of the whole Parliament and, of course, with the fourth working conditions agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u122	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Uai Urzuno Goldsti Group to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the proportions to obliterate the structural problems that lie behind the rising of the labor suits." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u123	Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, chief physician. We're going to work on jobs today, three days after the accident that killed the last one. All the memereological Centres announced a tremendous heat and, on the other hand, Osalan, the Security Institute of Work, didn't think of that warning. Nevertheless, apart from the cases which may be behind each accident, we wish to refer to the title of the interpelration in the present day to the problems of structure which lie behind the increase of the number of accidents. We believe that there's some structural issues behind it, and that, in a sense, these factors make it, or, at least, make it possible to exist in a work accident. The subject is very serious for us. In the past few months, we're feeling a rush, as far as the laborists are concerned, and we bring this interference because we don't see any reaction from the government, unless we follow what has been done so far, and we see that what has been done hasn't been of the right to avoid it. "When work kills" was the title of an editorial not long ago of a medium related to the government, and to tell you the truth, it seems to us to be an appropriate title to describe the context. We are not going to hide (we have not come to make a grudge), we are not going to hide the downward trend maintained for years, with historical minimums in 2013 and 2014 in relation to accidents at work. But it is also true that there is a change in trend, and that in recent years we are investing and we are in an increase in accidents at work that are also fatal. What is the context, despite what the statistics hide, whether by submerged economy, domestic work, self-employment, despite all the traps of the mutuals and even though they do not receive a single death for occupational disease, when in six years only for asbestos have died 180 Basque workers? What's the context? In 2015, an increase of 8.7% in accidents at work: 267 accidents per day. His data are from Hego Euskal Herria (Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Nafarroa). In the VAC, the Basque Autonomous Community, seven more fatal accidents than in 2014. In 2016, an increase of 9.5% in accidents compared to 2015: 288 accidents per day, one every six minutes according to Osalan. Three more fatal accidents than in 2015. Forty dead in the VAC. Forty dead in the VAC. In 2017, data from January to May (five months): more than 15,000 accidents at work, fourteen of which are fatal according to Osalan, twenty-two according to the unions. This is the reality. And there has been no reaction, there has been no spurt, and the Government seems to choose to continue doing what has been done so far. Baina, zer dago statisticska guztien atzean, zenbaki eta kopuru guztien atzean? Edo beasts was an elongated drum, no aurre egin behar zio lakra honi? Zer from possible Egyptian duena hours? What makes it possible for that to happen? And for us that is the answer, because that is precisely what needs to be addressed. The Basque Country is based on structural factors. If we don't get rid of them, we can barely face the situation. For instance, there is no direct connection between the patrician and the provisional. During the preceding law Mrs. Urien pointed out in the same terms. We'd like to know whether the chief physician of the present department shares those expressions or the idea. We believe that the opposition, the provisionality, and the eleven more factors are behind what happens today. I mean sublation and provisionalness, together with other factors, are the source of the prevarication, because sub-contradiction greatly reduces the degree of decency towards the company, because the provisionalness extends uncertainty, and urges him to accept it under any conditions. Only 7% of contracts are indefinite, of which 13% do not arrive at the end of the year, of the same year. Undefined contracts with little duration, or, in other words, temporary indefinite contracts, unable to reduce the rate of temporaryity. From Lanbide it is also pointed to a certain picarec on the part of entrepreneurs, in which the only incentive to the indefinite contracting place it in the subsidies that they obtain for this reason. The labor reform, that of Zapatero, which received the approval of both PSOE and the Basque Nationalist Party; that reform that was responsible for opening the way to the right so that a posteriori Rajoy would come with another reform, with great discounts in terms of dismissal from work. These labour reforms provide the necessary ingredients for the creation here of a necessary crop stock, a magma, a situation conducive to the eventual occurrence of industrial and also fatal accidents. The impenetrability of the judicial system lies in the fact that a simple accusation can introduce you into a year's whirl, the slowness of La Viewuration (the disadvantage of not having complete jurisdiction here), and that there is no room for labor and security in the plexiations of the exchange... They're all the necessary ingredients to enable a job accident. With a crisis's excuse, there's been a huge scale cut in the field and in the prevention. But not just business, but government. The government's preparation for work, we may say, is not a priority: The amount of money that points to this chapter is 0.02 of raw product. Señora consej, el 0.02 del producto interior bruto destina su Gobierno a lo que salud laboror. That the cost of prevention exceeds the cost of non-prevention is also a factor fuelling sinestrality. Not doing prevention in this country is cheap, very cheap: 6,000 euros of sanctions, to companies like ArcelorMittal, make companies like ArcelorMittal laugh at us. And that's what's happening. Finally, the blockage of collective bargaining, one of the few tools available to workers to counteract the effects of labour reform, and the stateization of agreements, which are also a source of impoverishment and instability, are also factors that ultimately make it possible for work accidents to occur. Only three out of ten workers today have up-to-date and current agreements. In this regard, the counsellor cannot limit herself to urging trade unions and employers. It's also your problem, and we think you should take sides. All these factors and more are a source of insecurity. We are witnessing a kind of top vertex of the pyramid, where all these accidents at work are sustained on a much broader basis, as I said, by various factors. Labour reform is precarious, the opposite of decent and quality employment. And that is the main problem: either this Executive assumes its share of responsibility and places the disappearance of job insecurity in the first order of order, or we will continue to witness job deaths week after week. We want to move the idea that this battle cannot be fought only within the scope of the Occupational Risk Prevention and Osalan Act. As I have tried to explain, it contains multiple factors, and we believe that they must be addressed comprehensively. The question, therefore, is what are the objectives of this Executive to reduce the number of accidents at work, what is the strategy that this Executive is going to follow to reduce the number of accidents at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u125	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Urruzuno, what you have expressed in the presentation of your inquiry is in perfect harmony with the concern and sensitivity of my department and of the entire government about the need to tackle labour sinestrality. Supporting the introduction you have made, I would like to express two premises on accidents at work. One, that the accident at work itself is the expression of a preventive failure. Prevention measures must therefore be prioritized. Another, that accidents are not the result of reasons, but of causes, which leads to analysis of them in order to be able to prevent them. As an introduction, I would also like to provide you with an analysis of the accident data, which in recent decades shows a really significant decline: we have gone from the more than 55,000 accidents per year with a fall in the early 2000s, with an incidence rate of 84.88 per 1,000 workers, to 31.500 in 2016, with an incidence rate (which is the number of accidents per thousand workers) of 41.77. Less than half. It is a descending, nonlinear progress, with saw teeth, but with all the decreasing lights. Much has been done in recent years to implement a preventive culture in our companies, and I think it is fair to acknowledge that, in addition to Osalan, these results have been made possible by a task in which we have involved all social actors, including employers and trade unions. I've said it several times and I repeat it here today. For me, the definition of quality employment cannot be reduced exclusively to a good wage. And I would like to point out to you that explicit references are made in government agreements to occupational health and safety, which involve a commitment to work with the government together with social actors to improve these working conditions, by promoting training actions for delegates and prevention delegates in companies, by modernizing records and information on occupational accidents, to make their research clearer, and by developing protocols for the detection and recognition of occupational diseases. Quality employment is safe employment. This statement obliges us to continue to develop serious work of active participation in the fields of safety and health at work. The employer's responsibility for safety and health is clear in the legislation. We, like the entrepreneurs themselves, do not intend to squander it. For us there is no acceptable number of accidents at work or deaths at work, and we truly believe in the right of workers to return from work to their homes under the same conditions as they left, and also that at the end of their working life and access to retirement they have not made their health worse by the working conditions and the means and products with which they have worked. The progress made by the companies in our community in the field of safety and health at work and the progressive awareness of the agents and society about this prevention are well-verified, but it cannot be ignored that there is still a long way to go. Accidents that happen occasionally, and the alerts raised by some outbreak of disease related to their work exposure, remind us of this day by day. The prevention of occupational risks in order to preserve, maintain and even promote the health of workers should be based on avoiding as much as possible all risks of accidents and the emergence of short-, medium- and long-term diseases, in addition to closely monitoring health deviations and promoting a culture of occupational risk prevention. In short, the accident and disease are the result of a failure of prevention, and this must be a basic management criterion in companies, regardless of their size. Citizens with their taxes, and the government with its proposal and after budgetary approval, dedicate EUR 14 million to health and safety through Osalan. I would like to remind you that there have been no cuts in this area. But I want to warn you that spending on prevention is investment, and I know you share this statement with me. The training of prevention delegates is part of a chapter that we consider basic in our prevention work. Almost 1,800 delegates have been trained by the end of 2016, and it is a figure that responds to this commitment that I am telling you. For this year we have programmed training for at least a thousand delegates and prevention delegates. The Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work is the result of a wide participation in its elaboration. That strategy is a benchmark for setting up the management plans that we set up each year with the utmost consensus. Mr President, at this very moment we have just agreed with the social partners on the management plan which Osalan has recently drawn up and which will be presented to the Council on Tuesday 27 June. I do not have time to detail all the content, but I can tell you that this plan contains four axes of work, with twelve areas of action and more than a hundred actions. To sum up, I will give you an account of the axes and areas of action. Axis 1, a culture of occupational risk prevention, with two areas of action: awareness raising, and awareness raising. Axis 2, generation and dissemination of knowledge on occupational safety and health, with four areas of action: information, research, training, and dissemination of knowledge. Axis 3, management of occupational risk prevention, acting in three areas: quality of preventive action, improvement of working conditions, and integration of occupational risk prevention into management. And the fourth and final axis is that of inter-agency coordination and collaboration. I would also like to highlight our commitment to the in-depth investigation of accidents at work. To investigate is to look for the causes for which it has occurred and to find them, thus ensuring the disposition of measures so that this does not happen again. These are, to a large extent, the measures and principles that we are putting into practice and those that we are going to implement in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u126	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u127	Yes, I have also stated that in my first word we appeared at 2013-2014 in some sort of historical period. And I haven't been in the way for it, but since you're planning it, I'll tell you why it was. That's why 60,000 jobs have been lost in the industry and the construction sector has also remained stationary. Then I don't think that's the point of throwing rockets either. You introduced us to a plan based on four axes. It's okay. I don't know, we haven't read it, we'll read it. But, as you have said, it seems to me a mere continuation of what has hitherto been done. I have said, therefore, that we would like to have it in my first engagement, or, if it is to be given a solution, it will be necessary, or only necessary, to remove it from the jurisdiction of the law of Job's Prevention, and to operate on other factors. Look, counselor, I'm going to show you a press headline that has nothing to do with – this week's – the issue we're dealing with, and says: "Brussels proposes linking European funds to refugee reception." Returning to the subject before us, translated into the subject before us, would be: "The Basque Government proposes linking Basque funds to quality employment"; that is, there are no funds for those who do not invest in quality employment, there are no funds for those who promote precariousness. And not because we believe that there should be no funds: there must be funds, and more funds, but also more conditions. A question about that. South railway variant: what are the conditions going to be? After you've attended such a thing... "I don't know what to call it," said Musikene, in the works of San Mamés, in what is currently happening in the works of the high-speed train, "what are the conditions going to be in the southern railway variant, to set just one example?" The Prefect is a protructure. You speak of employment of quality, and so do we. And we clearly see that in this country there will be no employment of quality, as long as this people has not all the jurisdictions to the policy of labor. There, if you like, is a theme for the general table you have announced. Business camp. Marco vasco de rationes laboralles. We believe from EH Bildu that this framework is going to provide us with all the tools necessary to be able to address the issue of accidents at work (also) from an integral perspective. It must also, in our view, be a theme for self-government. That is, as the two majority unions pointed out to us this week, there is no self-government without a Basque framework of labour relations. And we're clear that there's not a thing that can happen tomorrow, and that's why we have to take steps, but at the moment, around the labor scenes, we think there's things that can start tomorrow, and there are things that you can hold or do from the post you've got. And I shall add, a little to the question of a possible or imaginary motion of future things, from which we think it ought to proceed. And we think, or we would like, to have some sort of agreement with your party in this matter. The production of decent and quality must be nice to the government. First of all, the government has to finish with its inner brother. I think that in this Chamber there is not yet a single person capable of distinguishing employment, work, work, and employment... "Empleo de calida es su función, only perfecto es la Artolalle..." Desaguasido. "Si el Gobierno pretende tomar esto como objectivo de poner order, primero ordenes." It must be nice to create despus, worthy employment, and a quality. The political healths of business must be radically modified, the control, inspection, and model regulations above the public are to be increased, and the centrality necessary to the powers of business must be given to those of the globe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u128	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u129	Mr Urruzuno, I once again express to you my concern and my occupation for tackling a problem that deserves the highest political and social priority. For me, on an elementary scale of values to be protected within the framework of labour relations, the protection of the safety and health of workers is raised as a fundamental value of first magnitude, which cannot yield to any other condition of work, whether organizational or economic. In this regard, I affirm that, regardless of the working conditions of the hiring, what will reduce the occupational disaster is that there is a real and effective preventive model in the company that guarantees the occupational safety and health of the staff. And it is from this premise, in which we also join Osalan, from which the Labour Inspectorate carries out its activity in a threefold dimension: technical advice to employers and workers to increase safety conditions in workplaces; supervision and control in companies, and the adoption of corrective measures provided for by the legislation for cases of non-compliance in the field of occupational risk prevention (requirements for remedial measures, proposals for sanctions, cessation of hazardous activities, etc.). The implementation of surveillance and control campaigns in the field of occupational risk prevention involves a determined commitment by this Government to ensure that workplaces offer the safety conditions that guarantee such safety and health for workers. To this end, intensive planning of inspection activities has been designed, both in the area of safety and health and in the area of working conditions, due to the possible impact on prevention. I am not going to detail them all, but have the security that corresponds to a deep sectoral analysis. We have also planned a specific campaign for the Labour Inspectorate to ensure safe working environments. In addition, it is involved in the control of working time, the monitoring of temporary contracts to ensure that they are brought into line with the causes for their conclusion, the control of overtime, the specific campaign to control the transfer of workers from service companies. And this effort shared by the Government, social actors and workers must make decisive progress in the objectives we have set for reducing disaster. I have refused and will refuse to discuss a greater or lesser number of fatal work accidents. Job insecurity is not a good companion of low sinisterity, and that is what we are seeing in the accident case. And that is why we must also continue to combat precariousness. Training, investment in safety, employer commitment, which is responsible for ensuring the safety and health of workers, the efforts of trade unions, must have an upward line, and we in Osalan certainly check the activity of those who are clear about that commitment. My commitment – and know that I will – is to continue working better every day to avoid sinisterity, and to improve the investigation of fatal accidents so that they do not happen again. With regard to the forums to which you, Your Honor, have mentioned that this issue must be taken, I will tell you that any forum to which this matter is being taken will be good, because we will be involving all sectors and all actors. With regard to whether we are clear on what are the competences of Work and what are the competences of Employment, I assure you that they are very clear, and that we are perfectly coordinated on an issue that is fundamental, that is to guarantee that safety and health at work, and of course to guarantee that quality in employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u130	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask me, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collector of the Society for the Law of Work and Justice, concerning the necessity of repairing the conflict between the Department of Justice and the Medical Officers." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies of the department, and good morning for forensics, and I'd like to take a leave of Miren Galasto, who was a member of this first medical combat, and now the viceroy of Justice, and I hope it won't change his mind, as a change of coat. This is a debate that I personally find frustrating to bring back to this House, because I thought it had to be resolved, but it is also hopeful, it is inspiring, to see a collective that maintains the struggle, that maintains the pulse for a cause that turns out to be reasonable, legitimate and just. It is reasonable, because it does not place an unbearable burden on the public purse, because what they are demanding is economically more than viable, because it has ridiculous budgetary implications. It is legitimate, given the great responsibility they have in their hands, because they deserve it, half because they are optional and half because they are jurists and because they are involved in the administration of justice. And it is fair, because these doctors are only asking to be equated with their colleagues in Osakidetza, that is, to feel fully rightfully within the Basque public administration; that is, a unique claim and exclusively for being equal. I have been listening to the question raised by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, and you, Madam Counsellor, were telling us that you will take a proposal to satisfy your demands. And I believe that there is only one proposal to satisfy your claims, based on the GNP of 13 June 2016, now scarcely a year ago, and that it has a strong implementation. And that's why I'm also going to ask you for an answer with a definite concretion. That PNL says, "We're going to recognize the 27-IIB minimum level," and I'm asking you, what I demand, with a definite concretion, is that you say, "We're going to recognize the 27-IIB minimum level, and from there we're going to start providing." Yes or no, because there are no more variables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u132	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u133	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Arzuaga, your question is closely related to the question just made to me by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo of the People's Group; you will therefore apologize if some of the arguments I am using have already heard them in my previous speech. I want to tell you that my attitude towards forensic doctors, as it is towards all the staff who depend on the areas I run, is going to be close, transparent and proactive, to solve the outstanding problems or those that may arise in the future. Having said that, I would like to reiterate that since I took over the duties of the Department of Labour and Justice, the demands of forensic doctors and the need to resolve them have been on my head and on my desk. In the justification to your question you make a sound summary of what matters are to be resolved. I was talking about presenting a training plan, talking about respecting rest hours after decent guards and salaries, which I translate as the application of the fourth equalization agreement to forensic doctors. I agree with them on the need to draw up a training plan that will enable them to expand their professional skills and, to that end, what better response than the preparation of a diagnosis of training needs that we have commissioned from VATP. Frankly, I believe that having that plan, with methods consistent with advanced human resources management, will help to solve this problem. However, I would like to say that, as proof of the matter that concerns us and occupies us, during the year 2016, 6,871 euros were invested by the department, and in what we have had from this exercise have been more than 14,000 euros invested. I mean, in six months, more than double that in twelve. On the breaks after the guards you know, Mr Arzuaga, that there are two types: those of twenty-four hours of presence, which give the right to enjoy the day of compulsory and paid rest, on which no complaints are made by the collective, and those of availability, that is, that do not require face-to-face action except at specific times. In this case there have been discrepancies on the application of the regulations, which requires eleven hours' rest from the performance during the guard. I can tell you that we are applying the rule with the most favorable interpretation possible to the worker, and proof that we are getting closer to what the doctors are proposing is that there have been no complaints in recent months. But there's more, ladies and gentlemen. The workers themselves recognized in their public appearance this very week that they had observed advances in training and guards, and you will agree with me that it is not by chance, and that something will have to see the proactive attitude I mentioned before. We come to the most pressing problem, that of equal pay. A claim that, as I have said and repeated, was applied to the rest of the bodies of the Administration of Justice with the signature of the fourth agreement, and remained pending to apply to forensic doctors. I insist on what I have said to Mr Arbulo, that we are working on that proposal, which must be rigorous, and of course it will be satisfactory. And the moment we have it prepared, we'll introduce it to the representatives of forensic doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u134	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u135	Well, he hasn't answered me. He has more than a minute left, I think; then, I hope that in the second round I will give concrete expression to the question that I am asking him. And it is: is there going to be a minimum level of 27-IIB, to from there provide, or is it another proposal, that satisfactory one that you are saying, the one that is going to take you? You say, "It's in my consideration, it's in my head...", but I don't think that's what forensic doctors are claiming. What they're claiming is that he's in his performance. They want me to be in their action. And you in the previous inquiry have told us that you are going to make an appraisal of jobs. Good, but in any case it will be after setting the minimum level 27-IIB. I say again, this is the question that I believe we need to be satisfied today, which has not been answered with sufficient clarity, with sufficient clarity. Uriarte also said that a job evaluation would be made, from which he also felt that his salaries should be lowered. The famous "If I don't say it, I'll blow." So, today I am going with the concern, if you do not clarify me, of if you do not interpret this GNP, because it does not give room for interpretation. You are not going to generate false expectations, because it is sufficiently clear and gives such an express and robust mandate as to say "The Department of Justice will recognize for all officials of the Medical Forensic Corps at the minimum level 27-IIB of the General Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community". There's no room, you can't interpret it. Therefore, I repeat, concrete. This is the last word in this course of control, and I want to take advantage of the medical experts who are fighting to send a hug and follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u136	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u137	Mr Arzuaga, I think I have been clear on this: my firm will to resolve this problem is on the table, and, of course, with satisfaction and in the shortest possible time. My reference is going to be the agreement of this Parliament, as I have already said, and the agreement on working conditions for staff in the service of the Administration of Justice. I think I've been pretty clear about it. I don't think there's any need for further clarification. And, of course, we're going to sit down and negotiate. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-23.u138	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
