ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll begin the gathering with Mr. Sainti Brouard's memory and remind him of it, and we'll give him a minute's silence. [[Pause]] I just want you to know that the third point has been abandoned for another reason. We shall therefore, on the one hand, begin with the previous question: "To decide once and for all the drawings of the New Year's 16th meeting of November. According to the 92.1 article of the rules, as the Companary Parlamentary Groups of Eslamentary Populars, as regards the inability of Osalist." It was a draw for the eubertist and the Basque Socialist in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the teams. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u1	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. First point in theme list: "Punish another proposal made by the parliamentary bands, concerning the re-establishment of the purchase power of public workmen. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Group has the word, Mrs. Ubera, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u2	Good morning...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u3	Quiet, please. Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u4	The word, which is sometimes preached by the Basques, which we set upon the table, the eternal refrain: word...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u6	...but what is more than a fool, and what goes beyond, we should say: the importance of obeying the word given, which represents the engagement. We often hear, among the Basques, that the word given to us is sufficient. Well, it is evident that the word given by this Government is of no value; not words, neither budgets, nor our handling, at least as far as the field we are able to discuss today. This, indeed, is the constant use of the word, that they should suspend their appetites, that they should not represent them; but that they should persuade men, that they would do, or do, to persuade public opinion. It must be acknowledged that you are certain euscal systems, counselors, presidents, and members of the government. Seriously, you're a bunch of cracks. All we have to see is the headlines, the headlines we have constantly had from September: "El Gobierno Vasco is an ejemplo con la subida de Salarius a los funncioaris." All the time! How many weeks, we've had to read that it's going to set up the first %1 and then a 5 percent increase, which is all that Madrid government will do. It doesn't matter what Madrid government will do, we'll set up the rise here to the public workers, even though all the workers' representatives are very critical, because their reduction during crisis has brought down 15% of their purchase power. And not only that! Besides, Mr. Zeritata opened the door to climb over 1,5% by negotiation, declaring with pride that they would receive it in budgets. But, in the discussion of the budgets, it is clear that this government has a fundamental law of Madrid, superior to the rights and conditions of the workers, the counselors become the groupie of LAPA. Or is it really what happens when this government is convenient for him to excuse himself from Spain? Because the public system is well suited to the maintenance of the conditions of the workers who are employed in the public art of weakening, is it the faculty of purchase? Is that really it? We don't really know whether you're the teamies of LAPA or whether you really use Spain as a pretext because you have another project in your mind for the public system, plus other administrations, public systems, public services... Because this government has a project to jump. And, of course, how in general the officials have a bad name and have no good press of theirs, because they can easily be able to pay for it? Is that what we're going to think? That's what we're supposed to think about the behavior, the initiative of this government, by sight? We could think of that as a matter of fact because it's just because it makes sense that we're in a generation change, and that it's only to see that it's about 68 percent of the general administration's planetal job. Today, we want to put public workers in value, because their function is more important than we think, because it's the work and the keys they do to build, the community protection system, the social state. And we ought to distinguish what privileges are, and what rights are, from 2010 to the public opinion, that they have attempted to present rights as a privilege to the public, under the pretext of re-establishing themselves under the pretext of a crisis. By the hand of the capatero, in 2010, there came a huge battle-axe, a first axe with five percent cut, then ozozcs... And so, by degrees, until the purchase power is reduced to 15% and 15 percent lost. And now, in Madrid, they say, they want to use the reference to the raw internal product to calculate the rise in the sorghum... Of course, the final end of fulfilling the ends of the deficiencies is, therefore, all of them, on the shoulders of the people, and the public system weakening. Probably our public system, the Administration, will have a lot to improve. In the organization of the public function, the system, our system, probably, is not the best; but, perhaps, there may be a way to repair the neglect of the past years. We assume that we should all, on our part, be a little inclined to strengthen our public system by finding out the criteria of public function. After all, to close the door to the deregization that is being spent in the past years, to end it, to win in the quality of service, shutting the doors to the privatization. After all, what we're talking about is making a better management of public money, to win the quality of services, with a public axis. What's that supposed to mean? What this demands is a prediction for the development of public services. We miss this prediction, we do not see any predictions. We ask to define the spine properly in the Law of Public Employment, to compute the criteria, to regulate, to regulate the public work offers, around the conditions of work, around the repositions... then from a foundation for starting negotiations, and not from the subjective and interpretation of negotiations. We must have a backbone, a foundation, and we think now that this base is to agree, agree, and regulate it. And it seems to us that, as a first step, the purchase power, of a hundred percent payer, should be solved. That we can start by... We can begin to recover the lost purchase power in years from progressive recovery, and we can pay the bajas 100 percent. We think it's minimum. And we're very critical on uploads at 1,5, seeing the last year's KPI, seeing that he was in September 1,9, 2017, October 1,6, when he saw that the ascent was lower than the KPI. But yet we have been prepared to avoid the criticism that was in our original proposition, and we have been prepared to agree and carry it to action-for we think, that, to restore the negotiation, action is required, and that it might be either a way, or that it must be, from January 1st, 1st, 1,5, when it was always open to form the climb of the KPI by means of a clause. We believe that credibility, negotiation, is restored in this way, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secondly, we find it necessary to make a realist planning, and the second point, in our medium, even when we have agreed with Podemos, is as follows: To restore the whole capacity of purchase in five years, to agree to a career page with a calendar and a growth. Thirdly, We have added a third point: In order to recover the jobs that have been lost during the last few years in the structure of the planet, and to face the provisional, we plan to negotiate and start a process agreed upon by the representatives of the workers. We think that we ask nothing of the rest of the world, and that the sects which support the Government should deliberate, and even the Government. The only thing you can see is, yes, all the strikes you've been working at Osa during the previous legislation, the strikes we've had at the College, the strikes we've had yesterday in the general Administration, the strikes that are to be done by workers of education, the strikes we've got on the 12th... Then something happens, and that should make us think something. We think, then, that we must think about all this and need a schedule. For, in the course of years, in Osacin, in the Education, in the General Administration, public offers have been productive, and not only to the labourers, but also to the project of education, as a citizen, but especially to the citizens who are most needed. There is nothing to see but the discussion of the environmentary techniques we have lately had in this house. This was one of the examples, and was connected with this subject. Then it seems to us that we have so much to discuss about what we now have to discuss: and this is what we have come to plan today. We ought, therefore, to give importance to the challenge we have in our hands, to plan beyond certain headlines, beyond depth, as the rights of the workers are founded; but to begin with, with the intention of restoring the negotiation: in obedience to his promise, to his engagements, and to be respectful to public workmen. For if we behave reverently towards them, we will behave respectfully towards our administration, we will behave with respect to our institutions. And if we act respectfully for our organizations, for our employees, we get to win a general interest. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u8	Good morning, congressmen. Indeed, as Mrs Ubera has already pointed out, you will find, if you have taken the trouble to read them, a substantial difference both between the non-legislative proposal presented by the EH Bildu proposing group with regard to the final transaction, and between the amendment to the whole that our coalition also made with regard to the amendment, to the transaction that we finally presented. A substantial difference that is essentially summarized in that we have not included any explicit criticism of the Government's action and attitude towards negotiation in the field of public employment, and of public employment policies of recent years by the Government and also by previous Governments. It is not that from September until here we have changed our view of our critical attitude on what has been done and on the attitude of the Government in this matter, but that we did find it interesting to put forward a compromise with a number of concrete proposals which we understood to be acceptable to the Government, to the Basque Nationalist Party and to the Basque Socialist Party. And, therefore – I will be clear – the objective of the transaction, at least with which my group is coming to this House today, is to clarify whether the government actually has the political will to acquire real but insufficient commitments, and of course I know that for the insufficient unions, and also for my group, but real commitments that could be assumed, or if, on the contrary, they are true, we will corroborate whether the accusations by the workers' representatives are true, of the inflexibility of this government and of a bad attitude towards the negotiation in the civil service of the autonomous community. Unfortunately, let's check, because the parties that support the government and the government... Because, although I know that you are angry with this and often resent me for confusing the parties that support the government with the government, I am not confusing them, it is the same thing, and every Thursday I come here to show me. And, well, it seems to me consistent, I am not going to blame that; what I am not going to accept is that I am being blamed for mixing them, because they have shown that the parties supporting the Government do not separate one millimeter from the positions of the Government. And here too it will be visible that this inflexibility that is presented at the negotiating tables is also presented in this Parliament with the opposition of the left. Well, this attitude of the Government to which I refer can be summed up in three or four elements. Inflexibility at the negotiating table when presented with closed measures and without allowing trade unions room for manoeuvre to negotiate. Proposals which are scarred, because if we are talking about proposals for maximums that are no longer covered, perhaps we would be talking about something else, but, as has been consistently denounced, they are scarred proposals. And also an attitude in our opportunistic opinion, presenting these closed measures to the media as great advances, and constantly trying to caricaturize the unions, as if they were always located on the mountain asking for impossible things. To all trade unions, to which they make tougher assessments and to which they make softer assessments, to which they bring less proposals to the negotiating tables and to which they bring more proposals to the negotiating tables, to all. And I would also dare to say that in recent years a cowardly and even lying attitude since 2010 (I would therefore also refer to previous governments), among other things because they have been constantly excused in recent years in the measures taken by the Madrid Government, by the People's Party Government – and perhaps they are right in some of them, because we all know it, and I am not going to extend in the measures that the People's Party Government has taken in recent years for the limitation of public sectors and for the limitation of public jobs – but it is also true that this Government has not expressed to the maximum the possibilities that it had, but, on the contrary, used those policies to make them its own, to make them its own quickly and to take advantage of them. We understand that this can only respond to one thing: that basically the policies adopted by the People's Party Government on this issue were largely shared by this Government and some previous Government. We ask ourselves, or maybe we ask them... In recent years there have been important negotiations between the Basque Government and the Government of the State: what level of importance have these negotiations had, or how much of these issues have been put on the table and the issues that generally affect the working conditions of workers, including those of the private sector, but in particular those of the public sector today? What has this matter had to do with the negotiations? Because we have seen how the governments of the People's Party withdrew resources of unconstitutionality that yesterday were absolutely unconstitutional issues but after talking to this government they ceased to be unconstitutional, but on the issues of workers' rights it does not seem, on the other hand, to be put on the table. We believe that what has happened in recent years has degraded the public system in our community. There is, you know, an important loss of purchasing power for public workers. Some unions talk about a 15 % loss of purchasing power, others even 20 %. We ask, does the Government know, has the Government wondered how much the loss of purchasing power of workers is? Have you wanted to go to the table simply to wonder if an agreement can be reached to quantify that loss of purchasing power, to mark a road map in time, negotiated? There has also been a loss of public employment in recent years, and the OPEs that are offered are not enough to recover the loss of public employment that we have suffered in recent years. We have temporary rates that are not high, they are very high, around 30%, which have even called for attention from the European Union. What steps has this Government taken to address the problem of the high rate of temporaryity? And why when the crisis came and when some measures came from Madrid we had that high rate of temporality? Because we already had it before. There has been repeated non-compliance with the agreements already in place, with the 2010 agreement, in particular with the question of outsourcing or, rather, privatization. Because that agreement expressly stated that no more services would be outsourced, and more services have been outsourced repeatedly. And we are going to continue to call this privatization, because when public administration services are outsourced repeatedly over time, what we are doing is privatization, covertly, jobs that have to be done from the public administration, and that in many cases have also been shown to be more efficient when they are done from the public administration. And that of course there is one thing they have: when they are carried out from the public administration, the working conditions of the workers are better. A public sector law mentioned here, which has continued to be delayed over the years, and which has not been listening to the contributions that different trade unions have made in this regard. And, ultimately, a situation of very important discontent among the workers in the public sector that this Government has not been able to cope with. We were therefore presenting, as Mrs Ubera has also explained, an acceptable three-point amendment, so that the Government would commit itself to doing something that it has theoretically said it will do, that 1.5 % increase but since 1 January, with the commitment of a road map, which is only marked in this compromise amendment by a road map to agree with the unions on how and at what time it is necessary to regain that purchasing power that public workers have lost. And a third element, also agree with the trade unions on the OPEs needed to recover employment and reduce the very high rate of temporaryity. We therefore put forward an acceptable and achievable compromise amendment. Assumable by this Government. But it seems that the government, the parties that support it (which are the same, I repeat), prefer to present us with an absolutely empty counterproposal of content, which only marks two issues that would be the least that can be asked of any government: to negotiate calls for tenders...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u9	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u10	(End now, Madam President.) ... for the whole sector, in abstract, and to negotiate the corresponding salary increases, which are the corresponding ones. If our compromise amendment seems to us to be insufficient (and I say this: it seems to my group that it is insufficient for the problems we face in the public sector and above all with regard to working conditions in the public sector), the amendment tabled by the Government seems to me to be inadequate, it says nothing. Therefore, we will defend our amendment today, although, as I say, it also seems to us to be insufficient. The most important thing is that this government really puts itself on the table to negotiate with the unions, and not to make closed proposals to them to leave immediately at Teleberri to announce that it is proposing gold and Moorish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u12	Good morning, everyone. We are discussing today a non-legislative proposal submitted by the EH Bildu proponent group at the end of September 2017, and, although it has not been long since its submission, there are proposals or agreements already approved by this Parliament that change part of what is set out in the justification of the proposal. The Socialists, together with the rest of the groups – and here you have stated this – share that the objective we must pursue is an effective administration, that quality services be provided. On this, as Mrs Ubera said very well, we had the opportunity to debate in this House only two months ago, when we were dealing with the issue of environmental technicians. We share from this rostrum that we see public services as fundamental, as an expression of citizenship rights and the possibility of exercising through them solidarity, equality and social cohesion. Some of those who have preceded me in speaking have given a vision – indeed, it is true that it is a summary – of the measures that were taken in the field of public service at the harshest moments of the crisis, and it is true that the crisis was accompanied by sacrifices and efforts that were made not only by public employees, but by the whole working class in general. It is from 2016, on the other hand, when the first rise of public workers takes place. It was done in 2016, it's done in 2017, and it's going to be done for 2018. We were also moved by the unions themselves, in the appearances that we had the opportunity to have with them earlier this year, which by 2016 had recovered the working day of 35 hours per week, as well as the additional days that they lacked to recover. And this month, and we approved it in this House, the last part of the 2012 overtime will be paid. Also, and we also know it, next year it will return to the contributions of Itzarri. The trade unions consider it insufficient, certainly because they are the part to which it is responsible to demand and defend improvements for the conditions of public workers, logically within the framework of the collective bargaining that must take place with the Administration at the General Bureau of the Civil Service, and not in this Parliament. A negotiation in which we share that both sides must act in good faith and with the aim of reaching a good agreement for all of them. That is why in our amendment, although some of us find it empty of content, we urged the Basque Government, in the interests of that good faith, to negotiate with the representatives of the workers the corresponding wage increases that will continue to guarantee the objective that we have to cover, which is the provision of public services on the basis of efficiency, efficiency, quality, decent and stable conditions, which will enable the Administration to meet the challenges of the future. But it is true that not everything is reduced to economic parameters, because one of the problems that harass the Administration and that generates precariousness is the high rate of interinity that the General Administration of the Basque Country supports, further aggravated by a staff with a very high average age, more than fifty years. Because if the objective we all say we are pursuing is that of an effective administration that provides quality services, what must be achieved is to meet the challenge of stabilising the workforce, to achieve the consolidation of jobs that avoids the decapitalisation of knowledge and accumulated experience by workers who in some cases accumulate many, too many years as an interim. The Socialists have expressed this on many occasions and I will say this once again today: the administration cannot afford – and this we shared in this House two months ago too – to lose the knowledge and skills acquired by these workers over the years, because this would, logically, undoubtedly affect the efficiency and efficiency of the public services that we must provide to the citizens. I know that both the Government and the trade unions have among their priorities the stabilization and rejuvenation of the workforce, and I also know that the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group share this priority with both sides. I understand that, from what they have said, the spokesman for Podemos and the spokesman for EH Bildu share this issue with us. For this reason, in our first point, and ahead of economic conditions, we urged the Basque Government, always within the framework of that general table, to negotiate the corresponding calls for public offers of employment, with a very clear objective, which is to tackle the existing interinity and guarantee the generational importance that will occur in the next decade. You know, you know it, and you can't ignore it, that on the negotiating table is currently the offer to convene 13,500 positions in OPE until 2020. It is true that we believe that an agreement with the trade union centres would be desirable to define each of the calls and to determine quickly the number and type of places to be offered in each sector of the administration, and equally desirable is an agreement to establish a procedure of consolidation of staffing. And there we will have to use the instrument that can offer us that public employment law. As you have said, which we share, there is a lot of work ahead, but with very clear protagonists, who, no matter how much we weigh, are not us, but are the trade unions and the administration at the negotiating table. Although we start from the same point and share the objectives, it is true that there has been no possibility of reaching a compromise with the proposing group. We believe that the amendment tabled, with our two points, is not a minimum amendment, but an amendment with a certain content; therefore, we are going to maintain it, and what we are going to request is the support of the rest of the groups in this House to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. This morning we are discussing a matter that we cannot disagree with: the recovery of the purchasing capacity of public workers, a need that we share, which our parliamentary group shares and which the Government shares. However, we disagree with the formula put forward in the original initiative, and now in the compromise amendment, to carry it out. You have presented us with an executive opposed to the public employees regaining the purchasing power that they had before the crisis, an executive who, as a matter of wish, does not want to improve the working conditions of this collective, but you know, in essence, you know of the firm commitment of this Government for the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions, for society in general, but in particular also for public personnel. And there is also a strong commitment to strengthening public services, and improving the conditions of public personnel is to strengthen public services. Nor can we question this Government's commitment to collective bargaining. An agreement is always better for all parties, mainly for workers, but that the agreement cannot be reached, due to lack of will or inflexibility in positions, does not mean that there has been no negotiation. Negotiation exists, and it will continue to exist. Nor can we forget that we come from a crisis, that there have been many difficulties, and that it has left, and we are aware, many injured, in society in general and in the public service as well. We all have and have lost purchasing power. And now we are on the path of recovery, but we cannot pretend, as you propose, that this situation reverses overnight. This has to be a process. Moreover, there are legal and budgetary limits, among which the basic legislation of the State stands out, which is not an excuse, but a legal obligation that binds all public administrations. And, of course, I do not know if where you have ruled, Mrs Ubera, your deputies have been LOAPA groups, but, of course, if they have been, they will be the same as these advisers. I don't think any of it is... It's a legal obligation, which is not an excuse. Despite this economic context and the legal and budgetary limits, the Government has already taken measures to improve the working conditions of public personnel, but always adopted from the point of view of realism, responsibility and legal certainty. Steps have been taken, and the rights that have been undermined will continue to be recovered. And it shows this in the budgets that the Basque Government has just presented, budgets that are being negotiated and that all of you have the opportunity to approve, and that, by making a major financial effort, they substantially improve the working conditions of public employees. And these improvements are concrete or have to be highlighted in three lines. A salary increase of 1,5 is proposed or collected with effect from 1 January 2018, in a provisional and transitional manner, without prejudice to the provisions which are laid down on a basic basis, as it cannot be otherwise. And there have also been increases in the last two years of 1%. With this you have the opportunity, through the support of these budgets, that the 1.5 rise is a reality from January, and not through the initiative, of a proposal not of law, because really the formula is to approve the law that already previews it. In addition, with these budgets, the Executive's contributions to the pension plans of its staff are reactivated, the contributions to Itzarri, banned since 2012 by the State, are resumed. They start with a 0.5, which will take effect from January 2018, with the possibility that the government will agree to an increase of up to 1%, depending on or subject to collective bargaining. In addition, large OPEs will be convened in this legislature. It starts from a number of 13,500 places, but it is a minimum number, it is not a closed number, and its determination is subject to the corresponding negotiating tables, to collective bargaining. Therefore, the OPEs will be a very powerful tool to meet the challenges facing the administrations, and specifically this Administration: job creation, generational relief, consolidating the knowledge and good doing of those who have been in it for years, and reducing temporality and giving job stability. To this end, the Basque public employment law, which, as you have said, Mrs Ubera, and we share, must be the backbone of this administration. Therefore, it is an opportunity, it is in everyone's hands to make the necessary contributions so that this law can be passed in the best possible way, in the most complete way possible. And I want to make a point: that law was not withdrawn; it was not withdrawn, it fell with the end of the legislature. In addition to these three basic pillars, they have already recovered..., there have already been improvements. For example, on working time, even if it is now sub judicious; pay supplementation of IT; recovery of the Christmas 2012 extra pay, abolished by the state's mandate, a matter settled this same month in this same Parliament, and new permits have also been raised. In addition, the initiative proposes that the Basque Government design..., calls on the Government to draw up a multi-annual plan for the recovery of the lost purchasing power over the past few years, setting out a timetable and budget lines. But you know that that's not realistic, that that's not possible right now. You know that, and so do the unions. The basic legislation of the State completely conditions all public administrations (not just this one, all of them), and they are limits that cannot be exceeded, and acting in the way you propose would lead us irremediably to the path of remedies and challenges. And false expectations cannot be created on such a serious issue as working conditions, since later frustration is very painful. Despite this, despite this framework we have, we once again denounce the interventionist policy of the State. In particular, in the field of public service, more and more matters are being taken up by the State as basic legislation (e.g. working hours, wage increases, replacement rates, etc.), so we lose competence in favour of the State. And it mainly limits collective bargaining, because it has little room for negotiation; regulation is virtually exhausted by that basic regulation. But it also limits the capacity for self-organization. As we all know, it limits the capacity for self-organization of public administrations and surrounds our self-government. In any case, I would like to stress once again the will and commitment of the Basque Government to express as much as possible and to take advantage of all the opportunities that such basic regulations can provide to improve the working conditions of its staff. And on this line, although it seems empty to you, we have tabled our amendment, which is based primarily on the implementation of public offers of employment negotiated with the trade union representation at the corresponding tables, in order to reduce the challenges that the administration has mainly, which are the high rates of interinity and the generational relief, and we also ask that the wage increase be negotiated at the corresponding tables, always – as it cannot otherwise be – within the existing legal and budgetary framework. This is realistic, it is the realistic proposal and the powerful proposal. Therefore, public offers of employment and pay increases within the existing legal and budgetary framework. I do not know how this amendment cannot be supported! For this reason, above all economic and legal limits, it is plain what tenedity is: retrieving the rights of all public workmen. And that's my engagement. So we ask all sides for responsibility, and we ask you to continue this journey. That's why we're only gonna protect our correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Ubera, we do all share it, or we base ourselves on the fact that in the last ten years the loss of purchasing power for public sector workers can be set at around 15%. For a little bit more, for a little less, but that is the reality: more or less 15%, in just ten years, of loss of capacity or purchasing power for all workers in the public sector. In the private sector, this loss has been much greater. For self-employed and self-employed workers in many cases it was not 15%, but 100%, because they have seen their jobs destroyed. Why am I saying this? Simply because I believe that we have to move to a moment of economic crisis and recession that is very strong, in which, in fact, much less money was raised than is now being raised, and a series of serious and severe adjustments needed to be made to eliminate all public expenditure, because the administration we were accustomed to before the crisis could not be maintained. Ten years ago, 33% less was collected than is now. Compared to the 2009 budgets to be approved for 2018, approximately 33% less collection existed at that time. In that ten-year period, which had elapsed, in half, five years ago, recovery had already begun and not 33% less had been collected, but 22% less had been collected. In other words, the situation was bad, and all the groups that are present in this House, except We can, that at the time did not exist as a political group, supported those necessary measures, either as part of the governments or through the budgetary pacts that were made in the various legislatures to implement and support these measures. Thus, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party supported the 5% cut that was made in 2010, and the governments of the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party, and even of Bildu's, echoed the legislative measures proposed by the governments of the People's Party in Madrid, and, indeed, the cut of the extra payment, the prohibition of making contributions to EPSVs, the cuts on free days (the Moscows), the increases in the working hours of officials, all these measures were implemented, because this was required by the law, by all groups in this House, I insist, except We can. The reality was that there was no money, no collection, and the operation of the Administration had to be addressed. Possibly those who suffered the most at that time were the workers of the public sector. Things seem better today. We have growth that is above the EU average, we are collecting much more, we are going to historical collection limits, and things must now be reversed. Part of all the cuts and adjustments that have been made (extra pay, working days, the recovery of days off, etc.) have been reversed. The 5% not yet, we'll see when it's done. Public sector workers were asked for an effort, they did, and now we have to tend to get them back. So far I believe that we are all the groups that have agreed, in which that is the reality of how it was done. But you are pivoting your speech, Mrs Ubera, on two pillars. A political pillar: it accuses the Government of following Madrid. It's a way to call him. I would tell you that the Government is complying with the current legislative framework, complies with the laws. To call that a follow-up is to put a rather derogatory tone, especially when what you are proposing is to skip the law, in the measures of your compromise amendment. In other words, the Basque Government, whether we like it or not, must be within the limits of the law in increases in public wages. There's no other way to see it. And you, when applying those measures in the Gipuzkoa Diputation and in the municipalities that ruled, did not say that you followed Madrid, said that you complied with the laws, and point. And in those we are, and in those we have to all agree, and the Government cannot be required to skip the regulatory framework. Nor does it seem very logical to me that the position of the government and the party that supports it, the Basque Nationalist Party, when it tells us that what they are going to do is that all the cuts have been recovered, and we actually know that they are not. Mrs Larrauri referred to the contributions to Itzarri. Indeed, if there was a time when it was prohibited to do so, there was a time when that prohibition was lifted. It was not done, for fair reasons, Mr Erkoreka has told us many times. Okay, now it's gonna be done. Why isn't the total of what the 2018 Budget Bill authorizes? No, we are going to do 0.5% of the wage bill since January, and the rest we leave for collective bargaining. If it was a right already acquired by the workers, it is logical not to use that argument now for negotiation, but to give them back that full right and start talking about other things. What's the situation then? We cannot increase workers' wages above legal limits. The legal limits will be set by the General Budgets of the State. Just as Mrs Larrauri asks us to support the budgets of the community so that these limits can be effective, I will ask all groups to support, when they come forward, the General Budgets of the State, so that in this particular aspect the measures that this Government is proposing to us can be effective. Because if there are no General State Budgets there will not be a 1.5 % increase for public sector salaries, because the law will not allow us, and then we will blame Madrid for what is bad about Madrid, when we have the opportunity to approve those budgets there, exactly like the argument you give us, Mrs Larrauri. But there is another possibility. If we have limited the increase in wages to that hypothetical 1.5% and what worries us is the loss of the spending capacity of public sector workers, what we can do to make that capacity increase is to lower their taxes, Mrs Larrauri. It's so simple! The collection is growing; the increase in the collection of the last five years in the IRPF has been 22.3%. Therefore, we can reduce the IRPF rates so that officials, without having to increase their gross salary, can quietly dispose of more money, i.e. recover part, or a large part of their purchasing power. But that is a debate that we do not want to raise here. What gave us in part to the great crisis that we have suffered since the years 2006-2007 is that we had excessive public spending. Somehow we'll have to limit that public spending. And if we don't limit that public spending in the end, we're also not going to get our public workers to improve in their conditions. I am not going to be able to support either of the two amendments that have been tabled, or the agreement that Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu have, because I believe that he is urging the Government to fail to comply with the laws, and it does not seem logical to me that in a legislative chamber it is precisely urged and asked and begged for a government to fail to comply with the laws that it has an obligation to comply with. Nor do I like the one that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have jointly raised, because I understand that it is a proposal, as Mr Hernández has said, empty of content. In other words, I do not know what will improve the purchasing capacity of public workers by creating new jobs in the public sector and by creating OPEs. Honestly, nothing. And if we are talking about a problem, I think we will have to focus on that problem, and the new public offers of employment will in no way benefit the purchasing capacity or the economy of the families of all those who work for the Basque public sector. And to demand that the government negotiate within a legal framework I believe it is not a matter for a resolution by this Parliament. That's yours! That is, we cannot ask the Government to comply with the laws; it would be like all of us to urge them to drive cautiously or to brush their teeth three times a day. You will understand that it is the duty of the Government to comply with the laws, it is the duty of the Government to sit down and negotiate at the General Bureau of Administration, which indeed has many problems, but not all are attributable to the Government. All trade unions have shown, in fact, or tell us the inflexibility of the government to negotiate, but we will have to see if that general table is becoming another Basque Parliament, where what is being discussed or pursued are political objectives or economic objectives. And, of course, the last thing seems to me to be at the back of priorities, the needs of public sector workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u18	Thank you. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I will not deny that this government is following Madrid, but in this case I have not said that, but I have asked a question as to whether this government is using Madrid as a pretext. I have only asked that question. On the other hand, you've mentioned private sector salarys. You've made a comparison: public and private. In private space, it's been three, eight, between 2008 and 2015. So it seems to us that there's a lot of distance, and our team has brought the proposals around the collective negotiation, as far as we go up, to the private camp, but the patronas has thrown them into the waste. And often, how often, when we talk about auto-organization, it's the most important thing here. Today, it's obvious that once again, when we're talking about self-eating things and self-reference, we're talking about eating things and when we talk about eating, we talk about self-interest. Madam Laruri has been talking to us of the prohibition, of the State, of the obstacle. You'll excuse me, Miss Laruri, but you're the ones who're trying to disarm the auto-pilot, cut the hands of the funk, bite the hand, and trade around the rights all the time. You're the ones in business. So think twice, think twice... What are you doing? What we're seeing is that we're continually losing trains, that we're in a chronic weakness, and weakness is getting stronger and stronger, because of the promotion of this government to Madrid or I don't know what it has to do with it. I don't know what it is, but it's obvious that it has a missional attitude, so weakness is getting bigger and bigger. My question is: Why does not this government express and express this mission of submission to the community, to the general interest? Hey, we'd all win. What public examples does this government seek? Can you explain it to me? What is the example of public services which EAJ stands for? What project do you have in mind? And we are speaking of the law here today: We are speaking of fulfilling the promise the government has given us by keeping the government's budgets, and we are referring to the proposal which the Government has put upon the table without any negotiation, in order to complete the engagements... That's what we're talking about. We're not here to disobey the law, huh? You see, today we have brought a realistic planning, very humiliating: we plan to restore the purchase capacity in progressively. After all, as I said before, just to keep the promise and to fill the budget. But, to tell you the truth, I don't know why I insist on putting my arguments on the table, because it's all the same to you. You don't care what argument we come here, because there's no use here for arguments, and there's always some excuse for oppressing workers, to oppress the public system, and to turn back on the interests of this people, no? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And here, after all, the goal we draw is that in the economic area, the social, the Attorney General, there is a three, a tripartite power, and that there is no more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u19	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u20	Yes, Mrs. Ubera now wondered why she doesn't know why she insists on arguments in front of the wall with which she finds herself. Well, I think you do, because we really have to insist, and not only do we have to oppose Parliament, but we also have to insist on the streets, because, if not, what is clear is that public systems and public administrations would be minimal, and would be an erial, if governments, as they constantly seek to respond to the hegemonic and majority ideological approaches in the Europe in which we live. That is a particular opinion of me that I am absolutely convinced of. We do not intend here to replace the role of trade unions, Mrs Castelo, I think you know – and if not, I tell you – but this is a parliament and we are talking about the public service. In the case of the civil service of the autonomous community, as it were, or by making a kind of metaphor, the Government was the employer and the Government was the executive, and one of the functions of this Parliament was to control that executive, that employer of the civil service. Therefore, we will bring to this House..., or in this case the proposing group and the groups that consider it have the whole world's right to bring these issues to this House. In addition, it is clear from our initiative that we do not intend to replace what the trade unions put on the table because, as I have already said, what we put on our initiative certainly seems to them to be absolutely insufficient. They will already put on the table, they have already put on the table what they consider appropriate. Therefore, we do not intend to play the role of trade unions, but it is the role of political parties to talk and discuss these issues, and to mark positions or how we believe that policies have to be made in this regard. And, therefore, in this case, we tell the government how we think it should act, as an employer who is in the public sector. We put forward three concrete proposals which I do not think are asking for the law to be broken, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I am also convinced of. You'll explain to me why. But, among other things, marking a road map to regain purchasing power, without marking anything else, so it's not jumping the law. I do not think that marking roadmaps or asking for compliance with what the Government has already announced that it is in theory going to do is unconstitutional. And it is not that we want to introduce an executive who does not want to increase and improve public employment; it is that what we have seen in recent years is what we are hearing from workers' representatives and what we are seeing that the public administration is suffering as well. And yes, it leads us to say that the public sector and the working conditions of workers are being weakened. And not only because of those cuts or because of the years of the crisis, which you can blame between the Madrid Government and the Basque Government (I think everyone has their share of responsibility there), but it is that when we talk about one of the most serious issues that have been raised here, which is the rate of temporality, that is not the consequence of the cuts in recent years or of the crisis. These very high rates of temporality existed, and it is one of the issues that the unions have put on the table, and not just for three, four, five or six years, and are not addressed. And when we talk about privatizations, or what you usually call outsourcings, they are not a matter that comes from the last few years. And in fact there is a very clear 2010 agreement, that when the General Workers' Union (which I do not think is the most radical union in the world) appeared here, it clearly explained how dissatisfied they were with the absolute breach of that agreement, an agreement that had been signed in that case by the Basque Government, and that there are, as we say, covert privatisations. It is true that they are not done here in the basto style, as we have known by the People's Party in some territories of the state (animal-cutting privatizations, in the purest neoliberal style), but they are also done. And when public administration services are outsourced, categories are outsourced, and over time, in a sustained way, a service is being done by private companies that take advantage and that have workers in worse conditions and with problems, with problems that we are then getting to know them in the high rate of conflict, because, we say, there are privatizations. And that is not addressed, and that is not the direct result of the cuts in recent years, either in Madrid or here. It is the result of specific policies being taken with regard to public administration. Therefore, we – I finish – raise three things that I believe are legal and consumable. And the Government, through the groups that support it, is presenting an amendment that I say is empty of content. I am not saying that it is insufficient, it is empty of content, because what is in that amendment is already in ours. Because, indeed – in this I agree with Mr Ruiz de Arbulo – it is that in his amendment the government is being asked to comply with the logic that a government has to comply with and what it is obliged to comply with. So, we can save that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u22	Mr Hernández, if my amendment is incorporated into your amendment, and mine is empty of content, yours at least has an empty part of content as well. Anyway. Sometimes arguments lead us where they lead us. There are some issues that are not acceptable to what you propose. And it is true that they do not want to replace trade unions nor do they want to replace collective bargaining, but sometimes they have temptations, and at their first point they say where at least the salary increase proposal for 2018 should go. It will be the negotiating table, with the positions of trade unions and employers, in this case of the Administration, who has to determine it, not this Parliament, and must take the legal limit very into account. Because in other places where you govern, you take into account the legal limit, because the law is to comply with it, and respect for the legal framework is the one that exists. That is why our amendment is also of some value, because what it says is that what we have to ask or urge the Government, within the good faith of collective bargaining, on the issue of OPE that limits or solves the problem of interinity and generational relief, and on the other hand, pay increases, is done within law enforcement, which is the same at this time, and with the thesis that we have, is not trivial. And others of the proposals what they come to say is "get out of the toaster that legal framework and negotiate with the unions the total recovery of the lost." By the way, total recovery that some people say is 15% plus-minus (I don't know when to talk about the plus-minus), and that there were unions that told us in their own appearance that they didn't really know what that percentage was, and that what they originally asked the government to do was to calculate how much it could have been. Because it is true that in 2010 this 5% did not apply linearly, nor did it affect all workers alike. And the point is that here we are always trying to carry, and lately we are seeing ourselves in all the matters that we are dealing with in this plenary, which ends up getting tax through. And taxation does not consist in raising or lowering taxes, nor in seeing who gives more in this matter, but in guaranteeing economic resources to the administration, to the public sector. Because for us the public sector is the one providing those services that guarantee us the rights of citizenship, the possibility of social cohesion, equality and solidarity, which the People's Party is less interested in, but which we are very concerned about and, of course, are an objective of our policies. And, actually, starting from the attitude of inflexibility... can be inflexibility on both sides. But to say, as both the spokesman for EH Bildu and the spokesman for Podemos have said, that the unions have bad press in Public Service, or that they are ridiculed, well, it seems to me that they are poorly favored. They defend the rights of those who understand. It is true that from a comfortable position that does not occur in the private sector: in the private sector, if there is no agreement, there is no increase; in the public sector, if there is no agreement, there is an increase, because it applies. That in the private sector does not happen, and it is a different way of acting too. But when we are told the issue of defending workers' rights there is one thing that Elkarrekin Podemos has to start learning: it is no longer a question of putting on the banner. You are already in the bullring, you are already in the arena of the game, and we have the capacity, from the votes in different areas in which you are – and I am commenting on it and I am making you look for Madrid in Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies – to amend a fundamental law for the protection of workers' rights, and I will not tire of telling you this, and it is the Workers' Statute: to reverse the labor reforms that knocked down the balance of the parties in collective bargaining. Yes, I know you agree. What happens is that they combine it with other maximalist positions of their political ideal. And when you have to come to an agreement sometimes you have to be aware that you have to leave some of what is your ideal to create an agreement that benefits the citizen you claim to represent. Of this the Socialist Party, of what is responsible management and responsible agreement, for benefit and not for electoral revenue, has much experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u24	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you speak of the contributions to Itzarri. Well, you already knew from before, and in addition the counselor has recently explained to you, that to resume these contributions there were two limits: one, not to increase the salary mass, and the other, which were subscribed before December 31, 2011. With this one of the requirements was not met so far, which was the increase in the wage mass. Now you can resume, with which... Well, you already knew that, and don't cheat, don't tangle the data. As far as the amendment is concerned, our amendment... our amendment is possible! It says, "no content." It's possible! That is what can be requested within the existing legal and budgetary framework. Mrs. Ubera, you know, you know. And besides, after listening to them, I ask myself a question, or I really have the answer. Have you and you really come to improve the working conditions of public employees, or have you come exclusively to criticize the government's actions? I'll definitely take the second one. I am certainly left with the second option: they have only come to question government action. They have not come to improve the working conditions of public employees, because, if that were the objective, they have in their hand the instrument that can materialize since 1 January the claims that you have to a large extent on your initiative, approving and supporting the Basque budgets for 2018. Yes, it is the only possible formula, and do not come with a non-law proposal that you know has no validity. It's just absurd! What would be the validity of this non-legislative proposal if the Basque budgets were not approved? Well, it wouldn't have any value! And besides, it's amazing: you say to the government, "Do it, but I'm not going to support it." It's amazing. And speaking of absurd situations, and you talking about self-government, today in the Congress of Deputies you have the courage not to support the Law of the Cup, which, along with the Law of Government, is one of the basic pillars of Basque self-government. Please don't talk to us, or give us lessons in self-government. And besides, well, we're not surprised that they're not going to approve the budgets, or that they're not going to approve them. And also when you justify your non-approvals, both to the Law of the Cup and to the Law of Budgets, you justify it or try to justify it in many ways, but don't forget that you, when you have ruled and when you rule, strictly comply with the legality that you say Spanish, strictly comply with the Law of the Cup, the Law of Public Service, the basic legislation in public service... all of you, however. So please don't teach us lessons. And political commitment. Do you doubt the political commitment of these governments when they submit to such legislation? I don't know why they staged that this government has no commitment. Please do not ask this Government to do what you do not do when you rule or have ruled. But, in any case, don't worry, that we are going to do everything we can to ensure that these budgets, the Basque budgets, can be approved, and the workers can charge this salary increase from 1 January and also progressively improve their working conditions. Don't worry about it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Ubera, the most punished was not the public sector. You give us a figure of what has fallen wages in the private sector during those years of crisis, but it is that to do that calculation what you do not take into account are the millions of jobs that have lost from one hundred to zero their wages, and those do not enter the survey. They're the ones who kept up. And in the public sector, on the other hand, ninety and many percent of the jobs there were. Therefore, the most punished sector, of course, was not the public sector. That does not mean, much less, that we do not worry about the reality of the public sector, which is that the Government has not done much to improve. Mr Hernandez, you tell us that if we continue like this we will end up having public services that are going to be an authentic heritage and a disaster. Look, Spain's public services since the start of the democratic system in 1978 are among the best in Europe. Our social protection system is one of the best in Europe. But if we move to the Basque Autonomous Community, the public workers of the Basque Autonomous Community, those of the Basque Government, and especially those of the outlaws, have the best working conditions in the whole European public sector. Do you know why, Mr. Hernández? Because you've never ruled. Because if you had ever ruled, and implemented the policies that you are preaching to us every day you want to carry out, our public systems would be a genuine erial, and public services would stop providing, because those public policies do not lead to anything good. And if not, time to time, we'll see about that. I insist that temporality – we have commented earlier – is a matter that has nothing to do with the non-legislative proposal that we are discussing today, and that, therefore, it will need to be addressed in other initiatives, in other kinds of debates, or even in the committee, in a monograph on it, because it is a problem that has nothing to do with the purchasing capacity of public workers, and indeed that has no cause in the cuts or adjustments applied by the different governments, neither of this community nor of Madrid, in the last ten years, but in a public service policy that has been carried out by the last Basque governments. And that is a debate that we would have to discuss later. Mrs. Larrauri, you're taking the EPSV issue back from me. Yes, we know that Mr Erkoreka's argumentary knows him very well. The wage mass could have been increased before, or at times of crisis reduced elsewhere, which is what the rest of the Basque public administrations did and which is the only thing the Basque Government did not do. Hence we are the last to recover the extra pay and the last to have contributions to EPSV. And I told you that it does not seem at all elegant to me, once the necessary conditions have been met to make the contributions again, save me 0.5% of the contributions to negotiate it with the unions, when it was something that was already a right acquired by the unions. That is one of the very licit and hand-held tricks used by the Government, but it is logical that with such arguments and games that are made with the rights of public workers in the long run the atmosphere of the negotiating table is absolute and totally irresistible. I just finish by explaining, Mr Hernández, the position of our group. To request that, from 1 January, 1.5 % of the budget of the Basque Government be paid to public workers, the salary increase of 1.5 % since the beginning of January, regardless of what happens with the general state budgets, is legal, it is true. What's going on? That if there are no budgets in Madrid it would be necessary to ask the public workers to return that amount of money. That is a power that the government has, but I believe that a conservative government and an intelligent government do not make those decisions lightly and wait to see what happens, because I am sure that in Madrid they will do everything possible to make budgets, and in this way to be able to increase public wages also in our Basque Autonomous Community. But if to that 1.5% that you are asking to subscribe from now on we include a clause that also adds the IPC that exists in 2018, we are bypassing the legal limits. That is why I have simply told you that I understand that it is not a position that is within the law, and that is why, as I explained to Mrs Larrauri, because they are empty in content, we are not going to support either of the two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 26; the opposites, 45; white, 0; Abstension, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u28	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Eukalia, who are the leaders of the whole community. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 37; counters 34; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u29	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced together by Eukene Arana Varas, a member of the Polydemos, a member of the police of equality, and of the machination of violence. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. It is Mrs. Arana's turn to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u30	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos emerges after the concern for the response of the lehendakari in the interpellation last October 20. It seemed to us that the Basque Government did not plan to redouble its efforts to respond to the needs of women in the Basque Country who live every day in situations of inequality and discrimination and face sexist violence simply because they are women. We regret not having reached a compromise by all the groups, because we have sought it, because we also agree with the amendments tabled by the Nationalist, Socialist and People's groups, and we are grateful for Mrs Etxebarrieta's support for this initiative. We want to continue to make progress in achieving greater and more efficient management of resources for equality; we want to strengthen programmes to support victims of machista violence; and we also want concrete commitments and measures. But, in view of what we are seeing, our concern of 20 October is confirmed: the total budget has increased the items for gender equality and violence; however, 0.11% of the total budget has been reduced, according to the government's own report. It is clear that Basque society as a whole is increasingly concerned and busy in reversing this historical injustice. Citizenship, with its indispensable historical contributions to feminist theory and movement, has integrated the principle of equality of women and men into its aspirations to build a better, fairer, more democratic, equal and supportive society. It is necessary to redouble efforts and resources in order to take more decisive steps towards real and effective equality and towards a Euskadi free of machist violence. We said this on 10 June, we reiterated it in October, also in the budget hearings, and today we insist again, because in Elkarrekin We want the equality of women and men and the gender-based violence to be placed in their place of priority on the political agenda of the Government and this Parliament. And we're going to keep working and insist that it be. First of all, we want to make it clear that we agree with the political frameworks that link inequality and violence, that they are directly related and are fed back. We therefore argue that investing in equality policies is investing in the eradication of sexist violence, and therefore investing in the eradication of violence is investing in equality. Inequality is the breeding ground for violence, which in turn reinforces inequality and discrimination. They are an obstacle to the exercise of our rights, and the most serious and media cases operate as a warning to all of us. Because when they touch one they touch all of us; each aggression is a warning to all, it is a clear message: "Woman, if you get out of social or gender mandates you can be assaulted." Progress on equal opportunities, non-discrimination and the effective exercise of rights by women is unquestionable. We recognize all the progress made, but it is not enough. We also owe all these advances, first and foremost to the history of struggles, demands and proposals of the feminist movement and women. Without them we would not be here today, we would not have the rights that we have achieved so far. We also recognize that some policies have been important to raise awareness and visibility, we recognize that. We appreciate the commitment of so many people that from institutions, with rather scarce resources, have been making efforts and policies. But we need more. It is clear that a situation of structural inequality of women and men persists, supported by a patriarchal system that places instead of subordination to the former and in a position of power to the latter in all spheres of life. The figures of unemployment, job insecurity, use of time, political or cultural participation, and the most alarming data and cases of sexist violence, are a clear example of all this. According to data published by Emakunde, it is not suspicious that in 2016 the employment rate for women was 44%, compared to 54% for men; women account for 80% of part-time workers; women account for 75% of people working without a contract; women in Euskadi have an average salary of 25% lower than men; women account for 95% of the supplements to GIR per single-parent family; 91% of GIRs to complete widowhood pensions are requested by women; 75% of mayors remain occupied by men. As for sexist violence, Emakunde estimates that there are about 4,000 complaints of domestic sexist violence per year, considering that there are many women who decide not to report. They are the tip of the iceberg, not reflecting the complete reality of the Machist violence. In 2016, 5,927 victims against women, the highest since 2002; 3,539 calls received on the phone; in what we go to 2017, 4,519 women have reported sexist violence by their partners or ex-partners; there are 901 alarms with GPS location; 52 women are escorted. It's data that puts the hair at the top. I go on, because we can't stop enumerating them, because it's really horrible everything that's going on here in Euskadi. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, in Euskadi in the first quarter of the year there was an 8.1% increase in complaints of male-to-female violence by the couple or ex-partner. According to the Ertzaintza data, complaints of crimes against sexual freedom have increased by 43.14%. In addition, we are witnessing an increasing number of very serious episodes of violence against women: feminicide, trafficking for sexual exploitation and sexual assault are a daily and persistent reality. The increase in complaints can be explained by increased social awareness and because women are becoming more and more clear that "no, it's no". In this case, we recognize the work of the institutions and welcome the increase in complaints. But it is also that Basque institutions must be prepared not only to raise awareness and raise awareness, but also to make a comprehensive intervention of prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation. It is a structural, complex and multidimensional problem, and for structural problems we cannot offer timely solutions. For this it is urgent and essential that all the Basque Government (all) and all the institutions (all) at all levels commit themselves and allocate stable and adequate resources. We want an egalitarian, solidarity-based, just Euskadi free of machist violence, and we are convinced that the best strategy for the prevention of violence is to move towards equal opportunities and results in absolutely all areas of life. In view of the government programme, the budgets, the treatment or, rather, the omission of equality and the eradication of sexist violence in some departments, in some plans, in the different bodies, initiatives, commissions, etc., from Elkarrekin We believe that this systematic violation of the rights of half of the population does not have its place of priority. We have an agency, Emakunde, whose budget in 2017 is more than anecdotal, which implies insufficient sectoral policies. And as for gender mainstreaming in all public policies, we are far, far from that horizon. In the appearances in which we have asked about the specific items in each department and agency, few responses have been satisfactory. The most optimistic figure has been provided by the director herself of the Basque Institute for Women, who claims that the Government's investment in equality is around EUR 21 million, 0.11% of the total budget according to the Government's budget report. Repeat: 0.11%. Point and end. This is, according to the Basque Government itself, the bulk of the budget for specific actions on equality and the eradication of gender-based violence. In the Government's speech, priority expressions do not correspond at all to the resources they allocate to further progress towards equality between women and men. In the allocation and distribution of resources, it is where we can really verify the priority given to this grave violation of the rights of all women in the Basque Country. That is why we insist and bring another concrete proposal, which joins others with whom we have tried actively and passively to address this problem seriously in this House and in this Government. This initiative that we are presenting here today is a demand from women and the feminist movement, and a further step towards a true incorporation of the gender perspective into public policies, which would be that one hundred per cent of the budget of the Basque Government has a positive gender impact, which does not present it today. That is why it is necessary to work all year round, and it is necessary that the isolated report on gender impact in budgets does not end up becoming a mere process, which seems to be happening so far, in which linked budget programmes are listed without making an in-depth assessment of the impact of budgets on the achievement of the objective of equality. In the motion we recorded on 23 October, we urged the Government to increase resources, to commit itself to making the allocation for sectoral policies on equality and the eradication of machista violence progressively increase to 1% by 2020 (we believe it is not a figure to ignore it), and to ensure, above all, that 100% of the budget of the Basque Government has a positive gender impact. It seems to us that these three points... we do not understand how they cannot be approved by this whole House. We do not understand what the role of the PSOE is in all this, because we do not understand that it does not agree with this and that it has not even been worthy to answer us. Eskerrik asko, Mrs Etxebarrieta, for trusting and betting on eradicating sexist violence, and for continuing to work for the facts to be seen in this House, and not just getting filled with words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Congressmen, good morning to all. Today, unfortunately, this congressman won't introduce to society a photograph of one or two mouths, and we must also note that the next Saturday is the day of women's violence: On Saturday, November 25th. I think this or this photograph is not what the inhabitants expect, and I don't understand why it's not possible at last to make an agreement with one's mouth, and to collect EH and Podemos not to be in this agreement. This subject has been discussed several times in this legislature, and especially in the first period we obtained an extensive agreement; and I mentioned in this agreement and intervention, that it was necessary to reflect upon this matter, and this serious problem. This consideration has been made in the States, and a report has been introduced, and has been tried, and we must say that in this review of Podemos, in this vast agreement, it has not been at last, because it has been in the vote of Congress. I said that I deeply regret that today this Parliament cannot offer a unanimous picture among all parties in relation to providing solutions to the scourge of gender violence, especially two days after the commemoration of an international day for the elimination of gender violence, which is being held this Saturday, 25 November. I deeply regret that photo, when it was possible to reach an agreement on this issue on 23 February, and that agreement was a step forward. We understood that today, following the Podemos initiative, progress could be made, and we believe that the initiative and the compromise amendment finally signed between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party represents progress, among other things, because it is going to place duties on this executive, on the Basque Government, on a request that has repeatedly been made by the People's Group throughout the various initiatives that we discussed in this House at the first session on this issue. In addition, we have secured a commitment from the Basque Government to advance the referral of the bill a few months, in connection with the initial forecast of the legislative timetable approved by the Government. The initial forecast was the third quarter, forwarding the bill for the elimination of violence against women in the third quarter of 2018, and in the agreement that we have finally signed we have managed to get the bill forward before the end of the first session. He said that it was possible and it has been possible a reflection at the state level and an agreement that has finally been demarcated We can, in a rather incomprehensible way, because in addition to all the work that has been developed and that I have had the opportunity to review these days, and to the thread of the debate that we are holding today in relation to this issue... For, surprisingly, at the last moment, we can demarcate an agreement in which he also worked conscientiously, like the rest of the groups with parliamentary representation, in the subcommittee set up for this purpose in the Equality Commission in the Congress of Deputies. I believe that this report makes a very clear diagnosis of the situation of gender-based violence; I also believe that this report responds effectively to this problem, to this structural problem in addition, as Mrs Arana has described it, and also makes possible a series of measures which include various measures in the field of assistance, protection and support for victims of gender-based violence and also for minors who are in that situation, in a compendium of 213 measures which also concern not only the State but also the autonomous communities and municipalities. Reference is made to several axes, which I believe are important, and which also go in line with the lines that this group has outlined in the amendment to this initiative, such as awareness-raising, prevention, improvement of institutional response, improvement of assistance and assistance and protection to victims, assistance and protection to minors, boost of the training of agents, statistical follow-up, recommendations to the different public administrations (in which not only the central government, but the autonomous communities and municipalities are present), and also with a budgetary commitment to develop actions for an amount of EUR 1 billion over the next five years, with a commitment of 200 million in the next budgets, which was also clearly acquired the other day by the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, in his reply to a question raised at the relevant session of the Congress of Deputies. There has also been talk of visualization and attention to other forms of gender-based violence, the economic commitment to which I have just referred, a specific commission for the follow-up of this pact... And we already have to say, as the President of the Government himself reported, that an interministerial group has been set up and that the corresponding sectoral conference of the autonomous communities has been convened. That is why we do not understand that, when we have to move forward and all groups understand that we have to move forward on gender-based violence and put explicit duties on the Government, which has tried to do so by the People's Party in its amendment... And we have to say that in the end we have signed this agreement because the groups, to which I am also grateful for the effort made... And the government itself acquires the commitment, as it said, to forward this bill as a matter of priority, as we also agreed in an initiative on 23 February 2017. Therefore, I do not understand that the EH Bildu and Podemos groups stand out on this occasion of this agreement. Look, Mrs Arana, when you, on your own initiative – and I am going to refer above all to the compromise amendment signed between you, on the point that brought us to debate in this Parliament today – you are talking about 46 million for sectoral policies. We are in favour of increasing the budget (as reflected in the agreed compromise amendment), continuing to promote and improving all policies related to prevention, awareness-raising, protection and support for victims of gender-based violence. This is already reflected in the compromise amendment). Man, it seems to me a little hasty and I do not think it too rigorous, when progress is also being made in the relevant committee of the Government, when it was requested in the previous agreement that an evaluation of all actions on gender-based violence should also be carried out, which we can now diverge from with a proposal with specific amounts that we do not know what they are for. Because, when the report adopted by the vast majority of the Congress of Deputies, which has been demarcated, we can finally talk about budgetary appropriations, these budgetary appropriations come from studies, from concrete measures, which we know the impact they are going to have, which we know the money they are going to cost. But you here tell us about figures that are absolutely arbitrary. He talks to us for a part of EUR 46 million, which he will explain to us in the second intervention from where he drew that figure, and he talks to us about increasing the budget by 1%, which he will also tell us why 1%, why not 1.5 or why not 2%. I want to say that they are absolutely arbitrary figures, which you will have to say according to what you have put them in your original initiative, which is finally also the compromise amendment signed by EH Bildu. Creo que varente a propuesta, que no es absouto resta, los dos grupos que apoyan al Gobierno (PNV y Partido Socistasis) that we have come to an agreement with y Parto Popular, and I believe this agreement is a realist: On the one hand, we require an effective management of resources, on the other hand, we demand that the established programs should be strengthened. And, on the other hand, we demand that the government will send the project as soon as possible and with a specific time. I therefore believe that the commitment that we have made, the commitments that are made in the compromise amendment that we have signed are real commitments, are commitments that undoubtedly represent progress in terms of more efficient management of resources for equality policies, strengthening programmes to support victims of male violence in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention and care and prevention. And, on the other hand, that the bill, which the Government has made a specific commitment, in the legislative calendar, in the third quarter of 2018, thanks to the amendment of the People's Party, we have managed to acquire that commitment to forward this bill as a matter of priority, not to the date originally envisaged, but to the first session. Therefore, I would like to thank the parties that have signed this agreement, and urge the parties of EH Bildu and Podemos to reflect on their position, because we believe it is not in line with the objectives initially pursued by the initiative presented by the Podemos group. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u33	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u34	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. "Preferences reveal the values of a country: what is valued, what work is valued, and who is rewarded for this work, and who, what work is not rated and paid. Who, the work of which was not paid." It's the words of the Reverend Pregs Govender of South Africa that I do today. Maybe this analysis was enough, but let's go a little deeper. Let us name it: That's enough, fear Brik and look at it. When we've spoken of three thousand times of machistaized violence, which we've repeated in three strategic plans, we've talked about consciousness, when we've spoken of the remoulds of fundamental values. Total games are assigned to these three programs: 414.413 euros... 414.413 euros! Look, this means to exploit the influence of the deep and media analysis, 700,000 euros, menducts, 900,000 euros. The comparison between such divisions is not proper, because we will not encourage the struggle between the weak, but it is paradoxical what takes place with the budget. We even said in the earlier editions: It's the budgets that reflect the public, the constituaries. If we want to get on the way to transformation, we should start assigning money in another direction. It's just that I keep on applying the same recipes as I've been doing, and that's what I'm saying. They're low-intenity policies, and they have limited resources... Very limited! If we follow these politics, where shall we be in four, eight, or twelve years? Do we really think that this is how we can overcome the relations of women and men? For we speak not only of the Machista of violence, but of the intercourse of power; we speak of a secret matter. Landalides of Nature, the editor of the Election, says: "Our plan has been to carry on with all our hitherto active projects, even in another way." If we're planning the blank tracking of what we've done so far, or if we're planning less resources, what do we get? Is that a job we can leave for later? Landandida himself says: From the election, every year, an inquiry is made to measure the equality of women and men, and every year it is seen that nearly the same facts are repeated. Figures txostena aipatuko dut nik ere, Arana andreak aipatu duena. % 51,4K population of emakumezkoena. In education, the predominance of boys in initial vocational qualification programmes, limited participation of young people in vocational training, segregation of professional families. Higher Vocational Training: Segregation is maintained. University education: segregation is also maintained. Productive work. Women of working age in the labour market: 52.2% (positive development), rate 11 points lower than that of men. Women have lower activity rates than men in all age groups, even more so from the age of 45. Women's unemployment rate, 15.1 per cent. Increased number of cleaning contracts for offices, hotels, establishments... Women make up 95.2 of the total employment in the domestic employment branch. Women are more likely to present temporary jobs. Seventy-five per cent of the total part-time employed population is women. Reproductive work. Maternity benefits: women, mostly in use, 94.7% (progress of very slow men). Family care, excesses requested by women, have grown. Women working in the labour market spend 4.5 hours a day caring for their children; men, 1.6 hours a day. Economic resources: without income, or with income below €4,500, account for 33.4% of women in the Basque Autonomous Community aged over eighteen, compared to 18.8%. And it could go on much further, because we're not just talking about violence against women from the point of view of patriarchal violence, sexist violence, but we're talking about economic violence, etc., etc. And if we keep the budget, or get down this year, we'll get this? The quantum analysis of the law of 2005's equality repeats from section to section the same mantra: The law is useful, yes, because it marks a legal basis, but the means are needed to develop it, and the resources are represented in budgets. That's why we made a suggestion to move forward, take a few steps, give them progressively. And, yes, we were asking %1 to reach that %1 by degrees... because we're $111... 'Cause we're in 0.11! In addition to this, we made a suggestion on the reports of the genus impact over the budget, because they can offer us a great help along the course of the line, and they can be instruments in this way. Could be, because they're just a day of formalism. They are made because they are to be done, but with the information they get from it, what steps do we take? They're being used as formalism, but what's wrong with the non-commissioned divisions? What do the departments do to change that? What about the collections that don't fill up the PG report? Why don't they fill it? But more important than that, what's the use of the report at the moment? To leave his conscience at ease, or go on with the ideas he had taken? This is exactly what we proposed: a method of improvement. And in front of the middle line of the other teams, there are some questions: What do you mean by going to more efficient management? What is it to be effective for you? We'd like to find him with precision. Do you all agree to what you all represent when you speak of efficiency? "Indartu dizagun babes-programak" exactly duet, was bai. Indignant rent? What duties, Mrs. Garrido? What duties? Finally, we've learned from feminism: We have agreed that what is not named exists, and today we have agreed on the institutional expression regarding the international day against women's violence. And so that no one forgets them, the women who have been killed this year, or have suffered severe attacks, and their children, the victims which have often been forgotten, we wish to remind them: Elvira Łódź, murdered in Portugal. Sara Majarenas and Star, three-year-old daughter, who suffered from her father a murder attempt in the township of Benifaió. Blanca Marqués, murdered in Burlatan. Raquel López, Eibar, and a 11-year-old son murdered in Alcobedas. Sophía Tato of Villabon, murdered by Caceres. Massé, Massée, who was pregnant for eight months, was murdered in the harvest. We've come here with a purple suit. We acquire consent to this; but as long as we do not strengthen the mechanism of resistance to it, we women are at liberty. We'll know what kind of conscience we'll be dealing with when we're marching on the 25th of the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u36	Yes, thank you very much, President. Today we are going to talk about a tearing reality, macho violence. Socialists believe that machismo and democracy are incompatible. The PSOE has always had the central focus of its policies in the fight against gender-based violence, and has been demonstrating this from various responsibilities, both in the national government and in the autonomous and local governments. As of the year goes, we have forty murdered women victims of sexist violence, eight minors murdered, twenty-three orphans. From January 2003 to November 2017, 912 women have been murdered in the field of couples and the like. Only 26.4% of the fatal victims had filed a complaint. But it is not an inevitable evil that condemns us to suffer its consequences. It is, as I say, a tearing reality that while it exists prevents the development of our full equality project. And that, that of equality, is our flag, the flag that represents the left, that represents the socialists, and thanks to socialist commitment it has become a matter of state. Because it is a matter of State to guarantee a country of totally free men and women. That is why we argued that a pact against gender-based violence was and is so necessary. The origin of the state pact is in turn a non-legislative proposal of the PSOE presented in its day at the Congress of Deputies, because we considered that a real, firm and effective commitment was needed from all parties, governments, administrations, entities and professionals working and intervening in the different areas of the fight against gender-based violence. This pact is extremely important, and it has even managed to drag a PP which has not made any progress in this area in the last six years. It's up to us to make up for lost time and keep moving forward. And a pact that at its birth, a couple of months ago, however, did not lack the posture of the usual, of those who have so much difficulty in recognizing the value of the agreement. No one understood. They did not understand, of course, the progressives to whom they claim to represent, nor the women to whom they claim to defend. In spite of everything, he's moved on. This state pact against gender-based violence is a good starting point, an agreement to move forward and a minimum agreement. However, this start is slow on the part of the Spanish Government. Yesterday Margarita Robles was calling for action now, because women who are victims of male violence in this country cannot resist another minute. He indicated that it has been two months since the adoption of the pact, and the Government of Spain has not adopted a single measure. There are only studies to ensure that the necessary laws for the development of the gender-based violence pact are put in place. He warned that, if the Government does not do so, the PSOE will present all necessary legislative initiatives. Since 2011, the PP has rejected all the initiatives proposed by the Socialist Group to combat macho violence, but we have not given up because we could not leave women without protection. The Socialists have shown that we are going to be absolutely demanding in the implementation of the state pact. Within the pact, of the 200 measures it contains, we highlight the return of competences to the municipalities in the field of gender-based violence, as the first instance of prevention, and the corresponding economic resources. It more actively commits municipalities to early detection of cases, and establishes a system of follow-up and support for decision-making so that the local administration can regain competence and act to promote equality between men and women. And you have to do it as soon as possible. Reforms are also being carried out to expand the bodies empowered for the accreditation of victim status, and this accreditation is no longer conditional on having a protection order. This measure addresses the need to extend to a larger number of women victims of gender-based violence the right to access social services for multidisciplinary care, emergency care, support, reception and comprehensive recovery. That is why the Socialists will continue to fight for solutions to the victims of gender-based violence, in Spain with this pact, in Euskadi with the law to which we have committed ourselves from the Basque Government. We believe that we must deepen equality also in the economic and labour sphere, in what must tackle its greatest precariousness, the wage gap, the impediments to its professional development, conciliation..., because inequality is still very present. The principle of equality must be re-emphasized in political discourse and gender-based violence among its priorities. Women's remains the most vulnerable group in our society, and the most unprotected and harmed by so many reforms imposed. For labor reform, which continues to make them dependent on their partners in the domestic economy. For judicial fees, limiting access to defence to those who start from a situation of insecurity. For the local reform, which dismantled victim support services and needs to be restored soon. By the lamination of the Unit Act, which continues to place the greatest burden on women in the home, increasing their economic dependence and limiting their chances of having a life of their own. Or by eliminating a subject, let's call it what we want to call it, which is key to preventing gender-based violence. We cannot and must not fail to train future citizens in values such as respect for and dignity of people and equality between men and women. The 2004 comprehensive law, promoted by the Socialist Government, was a milestone, one before and one after and an unequivocal bet on the fight against gender-based violence, and that norm gave comprehensive and systematic treatment to the fight against gender-based violence, but there is still a long way to go. Since then, we have been able to change inertias and consciences about each other's attitude towards these aggressions. It has been over a decade, where we can clearly divide two very different stages, between its first seven years, of progress, and six years of clear regression. The seven advances were in the hands of a determined socialist government; the six setbacks have gone in the hands of the People's Group, which has cut the budget for gender-based violence. In the previous legislature, the budget was cut by 33 per cent on an equal basis and in policies of gender-based violence by 22 per cent. There were no budget cuts here, precisely because the Socialist Party put on the table, to support the budgets in the previous legislature, that there would be no cuts in gender-based violence. Equality policies have been lacking, and subjects such as Education for Citizenship have been abolished, and this has contributed to 27.4 per cent of young people in this country currently believe that gender-based violence is normal in couples, when it is not normal. And we're talking about young people. We now see that we are not achieving the effectiveness we had wanted in young people. There is a need for children, adolescents and young people to internalize equality as an essential value for co-existence between men and women. And in the area of gender-based violence the Socialist Party and the Basque Socialists will always be; we will go where we have to go and with whom we have to go to make progress in this area. That is why we value this agreement, because we have to recover so much lost time. And the People's Party wants to participate in this task. We have managed to convince him to join the Congress of Deputies in the state pact, and also here. The Socialist Group is convinced that widening agreements and joining up is the best way to solve problems. For our part, we will continue to seek those who want to make the full equality of rights of women, their children and their daughters, in Congress and here in Euskadi, a reality with the law to which we have committed ourselves. And that is why we support the compromise amendment signed between the Basque Nationalists, Basque Socialists and the Basque People's Group, because it means moving forward here too. To advance more effectively in the management of resources for equality policies, and to strengthen programmes to support victims of gender-based violence in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection, as well as to advance and set a date for the draft law on the eradication of violence against women to become a reality within the first session of 2008. I believe that is to move forward here, and the state pact is to move forward in Spain. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u37	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The violence towards women is an act of violence based on sexual intercourse, and a woman aims at violence. It is a direct attack upon human rights, for being a woman, or for following a woman's model. On this Saturday, as has been said, November 25, it is the day against the violence of women, and that this day is about to arrive, not only on Saturday, but on Saturday, we remember the women who suffer violence and suffer it, even their children and their families. I wish to express my solidarity, and in the name of our party, a firm reproach against the gravest signs of equality. Violence is not an easy thing to avoid. Women of Euscata, too, suffer from machista violence. If we go to objective data, Mrs. Hadad Aranana has also commented on them, the 4,519 women have accused him of having suffered a machiolet of violence during this year, of which, as a protection measure, 52 have a bodyguard. A data. Every one of us, whether a woman or a man, remains a long career throughout his life, a long process. We have trained ourselves up in a region of equality, and developed ourselves according to the roles which are based on a patriarchal society. All over our life, as I say. And in this long career, several factors have taken effect: the family has an effect; the friends have an influence on schools, televisions, tapes, leisures, the town of our villages, the almond trees of our provinces, the joys themselves, the personal relations of our lives, the workshops. All these, and many others, have had a direct influence on the establishment of different roles. And in the same way it will be the work of all these to turn this state, to a society based on equality, by transforming it. Our job, your work, everybody's work. We have a lot of responsibility for this job. It is to us, in a manner indirectly, that we enter into all the processes and actions of public administration. This is how we get equality to be a national policy and make this country a model of equality. But the public administration, the institutions, we're not only responsible for this challenge. It's a situation to avoid every person, every single person, every day, with our actions. With all the things we do and say every day, this change of value is in our power. It's in the hands of society as well. It's a share of responsibility. Thus, what the President meant in that interpelation mentioned by Mrs. Arana, I understood at least in the following manner: Not just that it was fun, but that it was everybody's business, but that it was a lot of fun, but that it was cool. As I said, the institutions have a great responsibility, but we are not the only parties involved in that work. There are deep-rooted beliefs in this society that laws alone cannot transform. The change of values and social transformation is a work that goes beyond the transcendence of laws, although it is true that laws are a tool that continues to legitimize change, and they are necessary, of course. This government has made commitments, such as promoting equality in the workplace, eradicating violence against women or promoting equality as a fundamental pillar of sustainable development, among others – I could spend all my time here listing them –... in order to eradicate inequality in our society. Because, in fact, we also share that the bottom line is inequality. In this work, funding is an important, of course, very important pillar: 22 million euros of 11 billion general budget allocated to equality policies in the Basque Country. Mrs Arana stated in her motion that the 22 million allocated by the Basque Government to equality accounted for 0.05 % of the total budget. Today it has changed the amount by 0.11%, but that was stated by Mrs Arana in the previous inquiry and also in the motion. So, I would like to clarify that the government's budget for 2017 is, in fact, 11 billion, so that the 22 million would, according to our calculations, be 0.2 and not 0.11: four times the percentage that was initially pointed out and that was raised at least in the motion initially. Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu propose to increase by 2018 to 46 million the amount earmarked for equality policies, slightly more than 0.4 %, and that in 2020 it is 1% of the budget, about 110 million. I would not like this to become a question of figures, because it seems to me to be frivolating on a far too serious issue. In the fight against macho violence, as I said in Basque, not everything is reduced to economic issues. It's important, yes, but that's not all. You, Mrs Arana and Mrs Etxebarrieta, put in your compromise amendment that the budget for equality policies is 1% of the general budget for 2020 and that the budget for 2018 is 0.4%, as I said. Mrs Garrido has already raised her question during her speech, and is also shared by this group. We would like to know what that amount should be set at as such, whether it is motivated by any project quantified in that concept, or whether it has been taken as an example to some other institution or government where it acts more effectively or better in equality policies. Is it a position set by their parties as a general criterion in relation to equality policies? Is that enough, Mrs. Arana, Mrs. Etxebarrieta? Nahikoak will say 46 milioiak? Berdintasun-politiketarako, indarkeria desagerraazteko, kantitate horrekin lortuko dugu? Zertan oinarritzen zarete eskaera hori egiterakoan? Nola kuantifikatzen due hori guztia? Zertarako? Guretzat, interest izango litzateke partakatu ahal izango bazenute. Mrs Arana, what we find curious is that these same premises are not fulfilled there where We can govern or support, in some way, parties that govern or have supported governments, because in such cases, 1% is not set when it comes to financing equality policies, where you govern or support the government. We have the examples of Castilla-La Mancha, the City of Madrid, the City of Zaragoza, Extremadura, Nafarroa, Cadiz and Baleares. We are talking about 0.19, 0.37 (in Madrid, in fact), but the rest are 0.11, 0.10, 0.07, 0.6, 0.07 percentage of funding for equality policies where Podemos governs or where Podemos has facilitated it to be governed. They don't reach 0.2. And, given that data, they do not reach the 0,2 that is implemented in Euskadi, but they do not reach the 0,4 that you propose for next year, nor, of course, 1%. So, given this data, is Euskadi the place where inequality rates are higher than in those other places? I'd say no. I'd say the opposite. The policies of the Basque Government are aligned with the 2030 sustainable development goals set by the United Nations, and Euskadi has achieved fifth place in the European Gender Equality Index, behind Sweden, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands, and ahead of twenty-four EU countries. The Basque Government is seeking fourth place in the European Equality Index. The study by Eustat pointed out, in fact, in 2016 that Euskadi was far above Europe's average on equal terms. We believe that this is further proof that public policies (Basque equality law, as well as implementation plans through Emakunde and many projects, many plans, many activities) all bear fruit. The challenge remains, therefore, to accelerate further, and urgently, the process towards real and effective equality. And yet we must not fall into complacency. No, because effort will never be enough while only one woman suffers any sign of violence. It must become an incentive to continue working for equality, of course. Despite progress and the fact that our policies are a benchmark for other institutions, the index still stands at 58.5 points, which shows that even the most advanced countries are halfway to achieving real equality between women and men. The goal of full, real and effective equality between women and men, and in all areas of our lives, is still far from being achieved, and the commitment of this Government is firm to ensure that normative equality is translated into real and effective equality. This country is progressing from the self-requirement shown by public policies of equality, with self-assessment and continuous improvement, as it is necessary to evaluate to improve; to assess to know first-hand the effects of public policies and to be able to correct and refine; to evaluate to give voice to citizens and promote social participation. Evaluation is a tool for participation and transparency, an instrument at the service of good governance. Y voy a dejar aquaqui mi intervención. Yes, ma'am, I'm about to finish my time, and I'm going on next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u40	Yes, thank you. Mrs Garrido (and the rest), let's talk about the state pact for the last time, see if it's clear to you. The political reasons for our abstention are as follows: The measures have no economic, temporary or legislative guarantees for implementation. The subcommittee agreed to call for a minimum of commitment, a financial commitment of 1 billion to be allocated among all State administrations to five financial years, but, at present, there is still nothing on the part of the Government, not even the commitment to the specificity or purpose of the budget lines. And frankly, Mrs Garrido, we do not want the money that should be invested in foster homes to be used in subcontracts to road friends, with which we are very concerned about all this. There are no policies of equality that guarantee prevention to change the macho society in which we live. Mrs Garrido, women and feminist groups are also not allowed to participate as they do in other bodies such as the UN or the Council of Europe. That goes for you too, Mrs Sánchez: if so feminist is the PSOE, please, what do we do by not incorporating the feminist movement into the state pacts! A feminist approach that goes beyond the conceptual and legislative framework of the Organic Law 1/2004 on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence is not incorporated. We need a new framework against gender-based violence, we need a new framework of sexist violence that does not generate first and second victims. I believe that these are sufficient grounds for abstaining. The posture of the PP and the PSOE is based only on one role, not on resources and bets. Budgets. We are calling for increased resources on equality issues to eradicate sexist violence, and the Government is not increasing it. Let's talk... In case you don't know what to do with that money, Mrs. Arrizabalaga, I'll tell you. Look, we first propose to provide a real budget for everything they say they are going to do without money, because without money there is goodwill and words, but there is no public policy possible. Secondly, put in place all those recommendations that are set out in the report on gender impact on budgets (with that money you can put them in place; put them in place, the Government has too many outstanding duties!)). And, third, if we approve this motion, our parliamentary group has no problem in taking the first step and taking the leadership that the Government itself must exercise and is not doing so. We offer here and now to present a concrete proposal for the distribution of resources with measures for all and for each and every department and agency. If you think it's enough commitment, you know what you can do: you can approve it, and we're still working. Mrs. Garrido, there's nothing more to check... We haven't stayed out, it's you who stay out. All we have to do is review parliamentary activity and our initiatives. But do you really think that this is enough, that what you are going to approve is enough? If that was already approved! If all they do is repeat and give wax to the government (how good they are doing, all perfect, let's keep working...)! Well, keep working, but do it. Laws alone do not solve problems. Laws must be accompanied by specific remedies and measures; otherwise, they are a role for a drawer. We're on. Mrs. Sánchez, are you really worried about feminism? Is this PSOE feminism? A lady, Mrs Sánchez, who is unable to answer me even the proposal we make to her? Are you going to defend feminism like that? Really, feminism defends itself... do you know how it defends itself? With dialogue. And you haven't even sat down to talk, you haven't even come to my table to say, "Hey, Mrs. Arana, can we come to an agreement? Can we see what possibility this initiative has that you are presented?". He hasn't even been able to answer me! I'm really surprised and amazed that the PSOE is responding in this way to a call from the feminist movement. If this is the feminism of the PSOE, I hope not, it really makes me a little decomposed. With regard to what Mr Urkullu said, he really left me also a little transposed. I was wondering if it was the government's objective. Of course! I repeat again: it is the objective of the Government, mainly the Government. Mainly from the government! First, because it is urgent and of justice for half of the population; second, because it is so established by international conventions; third, because you in your Euskadi 2020 government program, XI Legislature 2016-2020, are committed to doing so, and I read textual: "Compromise 147. Eradicate violence against women." Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and its governing partners, get to work! Initiative 2: "Strengthening awareness-raising and prevention efforts aimed at eradicating violence against women, aimed at society as a whole and with a particular impact on the young population". What are you doing? Can you tell me what you're doing? Third initiative: "Incorporate concrete measures for economic and moral redress and social recognition of victims". You will already tell me how you are strengthening actions and incorporating concrete compensation measures with insufficient budgets, and that you are going to miss it today, because Mrs Landaida has said, you are going to miss it. Do you want to tell me how you're going to accomplish all that? And finally, and I conclude, in fact, the actual and effective exercise of the rights of half the population is not a priority for this Government. I'm so sorry, but they're not priorities. If they were priorities, you would be putting a lot more resources in place to address this structural problem. It is not a scourge, it is a structural problem, which affects the whole educational, economic, social society... We recently saw how the lehendakari was giving awards to the Basque entrepreneurs in which he only rewarded men. You really didn't find a single woman entrepreneur to reward? Are you really telling me? I'm done. In fact, the real and effective exercise of the rights of half of the population is not a priority for this Government, and they continue to believe that policies of equality and machist violence only correspond to Emakunde. And that's a big mistake. Well, prove it: 100 per cent of budgets with a gender perspective. In Elkarrekin We can continue to work to ensure that equality and the life free of machist violence are settled, as it cannot be otherwise, in all the agendas and in all the bodies of this Parliament; in all the policies and in all the departments of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Populars, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs. Arana, I believe that the exercise of politics is something more serious than what you have just done in this rostrum. And out of respect for the voters who voted for the Elkarrekin formation We may have made it possible for you to have a seat, like the rest of your ten parliamentarians in this House, I believe it is far more serious than the exercise you have just done at this time in this rostrum. Look, when one tries to patrimonize certain initiatives in an unscrupulous, weak way, making a scene continuously, making a paripé, in the end one is turned against, because one stays out of agreements, that it is difficult to justify its position, precisely because it has brought initiatives to the House to initiate debates that, by the way, were already initiated in this House a long time ago, Mrs Arana. Look, when I joined this Parliament a few weeks ago, in this Parliament there was a very broad consensus in this area among all political formations, the result of a presentation in which we had the attendance of experts, associations, entities... That participation that you systematically allude to, we had at that time. Women victims of gender-based violence. And we have reached a very broad agreement, an agreement that has made it possible for progress to be made in this area, which, without a doubt, we could also recover many of those points in order to make further progress in the future. These are exemplary agreements that you, Mrs Arana, by going over the hemerotec a little bit, should take good note of, because they are a clear example of what is an agreement in this House. An agreement in which many groups made a clear effort that enabled many measures to be adopted, many of them implemented and others not. Can you tell me, Mr de Podemos, Mrs Arana, Mrs Etxebarrieta, what is wrong with the agreement signed by the Group of the European People's Party... , by the Basque Nationalist Party, by the Socialist Party and the People's Party? Look, he's going to have a chance, we're going to have a chance to discuss the budgets. We shall see how carefully you look at the amendments tabled by the People's Party on this issue. Look, one of them is going to do something necessary and something that has, of course, also been made clear by those groups that you like to take into account, yes: that specific dependencies be empowered in the justice palaces to have their own spaces for victims of gender-based violence and their children. We are going to table an amendment on this issue. We'll see what Podemos' vote will be. We will also introduce others. Can you tell me, Mr de Podemos and Mr Bildu, what is wrong with the government managing resources efficiently in relation to equality policies? Can you tell me, gentlemen of EH Bildu and Podemos, what is wrong with the Government strengthening programmes in support of victims of gender-based violence? Can you tell me what is wrong with regard to awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection of victims of gender-based violence? Can you tell me what's wrong with these issues? Can you tell me what's wrong with you, which is something you haven't introduced in your amendment..., what's wrong with the government moving forward with the commitment to forward a bill to eliminate gender-based violence in the first half of 2018, in the first session of 2018? Can you tell me what is wrong with all these specific points which are duties for the Government in the signed compromise amendment? Can you tell me clearly...? You've already had the turn and you haven't answered any of these words, but can you specifically tell me what's wrong with you? Budget commitments were referred to by Mrs Arana. If the budgets have not yet been presented in the Congress of Deputies, the draft budget law! They will be presented, and there is a commitment to substantially increase policies aimed at gender-based violence. The truth is that when I see him also following his posture, he is laughing when we are talking about such a serious issue, such a serious issue and an issue where we should all make an effort to reach agreements, the truth, tells me a lot about the will and intention of his original initiative. Look, there's a commitment. If you agree with those commitments, I hope you have a constructive attitude in those budgets, in the processing of those budgets. I posture, of course I posture! Scenery! When Podemos has participated in all the debates within the subcommittee set up in the relevant committee, and has participated and all those experts to which you referred have been agreed with your group... If there has been unanimity in calling the various expert agents! Participation of the victims, Mrs. Arana. Participation of the victims, who have left their testimony and made their specific proposals, many of whom, not to say the vast majority, have been included in that report which you approved in the committee and finally abstained. You will have to explain why you left that report. Of course, it tells me that in the end because the budget appropriation was not enough... Because it was a minimum agreement! But these are the reasons that have led your group to approve the report in the Senate! Do you want to explain to me the contradiction that leads you, in the same agreement, to have a position in the Senate and to have a radically contrary position in the Congress of Deputies? Look, the People's Party in the various institutions in which it is present, and in those institutions in which it has governmental responsibilities, considers that in this, as in other matters, progress must be made. Progress must be made with effective measures, with effective measures, with realistic measures. Yes, yes, yes! It is that the measures we are talking about are going to have a budgetary form, and also through the amendments that the various groups are going to present to the budgets! Progress has, of course, been the steps taken by the People's Party also as a result of the responsibilities that we have had in the Government of Spain. I therefore deeply regret that on this subject your commitment does not go beyond bringing us an initiative here. There is no real will on the part of Podemos, because, as I say, politics is due to a mere posture, to a staging, and at the end, when it comes time to acquire real commitments in relation to all the victims she has pointed out (and Basque victims too) Mrs Etxebarrieta, EH Bildu and Podemos have looked clearly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u43	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u44	We didn't know we were in Congress today. I'm sorry, I haven't prepared myself for... I, today, thank Miss Arriga... to talk about what we've brought today and not to spend so many minutes on things that have been decided in Madrid. Although it didn't agree, the discussion, the discussion today, was someone else. Boquiaperta has left me, Mrs Sánchez: with the cane that has put the People's Party and Mrs Garrido, and then decides to invest time in reaching an agreement with the People's Party! Well, tamainako akordioa da lortu dozuena. Duties. Duties... What duties, if it's already agreed! And for us, there is no rush for three or four months to come forward with the bill. No, no, Mrs. Garrido. The important thing is that a good process is done, that Emakunde has the time to have a good participation of feminist and associative movements, and that they bring a good proposal. And we know that they are going to bring it, we know that there is a methodology put in place; then, that it has advanced three months, so it is not something that we will applaud or approve. It is very easy to understand our no, our no to your agreement, because it comes to say what I have just explained, plus the points to which I referred, which I also asked you and did not answer me. What do they mean when they say "strengthen"? What's reinforcing? Because I think... No, no, Mrs. Garrido! Each will have a way of analyzing. And I agree when you were wondering what we would do with the money that we were proposing to raise. Yes, it is a question we should have answered earlier, and I think it could be a starting point for us to decide between all of us what we have to invest in, because we do believe we have to invest more. From 0.11 to 1% was a proposal; if we have to go up more, of course we are in favour of going up more than 1, 2, 3 and 4%. It happened to be an el orderdor y se me ha apergado: "ONU Mujeres hace un analis sobre los presupustos con perspectiva de género, o las games concrretas que se le..." what is given to them is the concrete game which contains the genus view, and says that in the world level 0.1 and %1 they are found among the existing sectorial policies, and that they are few. Of course, we know that %1 will not solve anything, but we, Ms. Arana, and you yourself, have thrown out some very disturbing data. And if, as I said before, we were to double, to double, to double, to give, to three such programs as fear Barik, and the like equals, we should make a terrible contribution, because, as I was saying before, we put together those projects, and the game they have, which, as I said before, is the next thing in 40,000 euros, because it seems to us to be nothing at all, considering its challenges. And again I'm saying that you've placed violence well... we were not talking about the apparent machista of violence, we were talking about that question, which is a commercial problem, so we were talking about a problem which had to come from different branches. I don't know. I was just asking you to finish what kind of conscience we're going to march on November 25. I, at least, am with a very bad conscience, because I think we have not succeeded here, and no, because we have not signed your agreement or not, because you have not signed our agreement, because we have not made a way to obtain any good agreement and good means. And in that sense, at least, I'm sorry... And if we have to work with our mind to tell us what project we need to reinforce, with the care of following the steps.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u46	Let us see, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I have made it very clear in my first presentation that there were obviously two perfectly differentiated periods in this whole process: the first seven years of progress, at the hands of the Socialist Party, and six years of pause and retreat that have taken place at the hands of the People's Party. And I have made it clear because it has been so, logically. And when reference is made to the historical, and to how evolution has occurred, it is necessary to make very clear what the different phases are. But obviously we couldn't stay there, we have to keep moving. That is why we have promoted the progress of this state pact against gender-based violence. The State Pact against Gender Violence seeks to take advantage of all the positive results that have been achieved over all these years and to identify failures, dysfunctions or shortcomings, in order to respond and increase the fight against this social scourge with more and better means. What better progress than this, obviously. Mrs Arana, what bothers you is the strength of the Socialist Party in the fight against gender-based violence. In my first presentation I have demonstrated everything the Socialist Party has done in the fight against gender-based violence, and that irritates you, because you also have a sin with the position you have taken in the state pact against gender-based violence. Yes, Mrs. Arana, yes, they have quite a sin. Podemos's abstention, for the PSOE, means proof of the insolidity of political formation with this very serious issue of gender-based violence, as well as with women victims. It also highlights the irresponsibility of their way of working. And the result has been his party's approval of this pact in the Senate committee, and abstention in Congress. Unusual situation. And what you want here today is to justify the unjustifiable. We have promoted it, we have been working on it, we have signed it on the basis of State responsibility. State responsibility which you have not shown at the last moment, when signing it, as you have not had in supporting the anti-terrorist pact, or as you have not had in your position in Catalonia. Mrs Arana, Mrs Etxebarrieta, you have not explained where the figures came from. The various groups have asked him. They have not explained this in the two speeches. The State Pact includes more than 200 measures, 213 in particular, and establishes a budget of EUR 1 billion for the next five years, which will have to be defined in the general state budgets that are collected. And in addition, 200 million have already been approved, by a decree proposed by the Socialist Party in the Congress of Deputies two days ago, to move forward, as long as the general budgets of the State are approved, in order to be able to have money already, in order to be able to make progress in everything relating to the state pact. And, on the other hand, within the subcommittee I remind you that there were many appearances of different professionals, different experts, who were able to contribute and who are part of the report. Read it, and gather everything that each of them said in the appearances and contributed all these experts. All these associations that the various political parties requested or wanted to intervene made their contributions within the report; then, what do you have to say against that? There were contributions of all kinds. Then, read the subcommission's report, read everything everyone said, because different professionals, different experts participated before the report was prepared then by the subcommission and before going to plenary. I understand that obviously in this matter you have quite a sin, because it is completely incongruent that you would not sign the state pact against gender-based violence, but you will have to take the positions you make. Of course, as you put it here, you have not explained exactly what is the reason for these figures that you have put forward. What we sign is progressing, it is progressing, even if it does not exactly quantify a figure, and you know it. And it also advances in the definition of the date for the realization of the law of gender-based violence here in Euskadi. And, therefore, we are going to support this compromise amendment signed with the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, because it is a step forward in this area. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u47	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u48	Thank you again, Mr. President. First of all, thank Mrs. Houseland for helping me concentrate on the debat. We're not in Madrid, we're not in Congress, we're in the Basque Act, and I'll take the matter back to this. And before I went on, Arana was only two little things in that intermediary about what Mr. Urkullu had said. I repeat. Thus did I understand that even anyone who would not play cunning on the President d'Ajuda: I'm sure it's all a matter of my own, but it's not just fun. And I think that was clear, and if it wasn't, I'd like it to be clear today. On the other hand, in relation to the prizes for entrepreneurs, the lehendakari Urkullu, of course, is the one who gives the prize at that time, but it is not an event organized by the Basque Government. It is not the Basque Government that decides who the winners are. Last year the award-winning was Maria Luisa Galardi, last year she was a woman, this year she has been a man; next year we hope she is also a woman, or who deserves it, eye. Resuming my intervention from the first part, we said that we should not fall into complacency, we talked about progress, of continuous improvement, because we believe that the steps must be firm, and so it has been achieved that Euskadi has been a pioneer in many aspects, and the evidence cannot be denied. That's right. In 1988, Emakunde, the Basque Institute for Women, was established. In 2005, the Equality of Women and Men Act was adopted in Euskadi, a law that prioritized the effective elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the adoption of the necessary measures to encourage their participation in all areas of our community, and also assumed the task of promoting coordinated action in this area. A law that assumed one before and after in our country's equality policies, and whose implementation has been rewarded by the United Nations. A pioneering and reference standard for others, which has helped to consolidate an important organizational structure, which has allowed even in times of crisis the staff and budget dedicated to equality to remain without major setbacks. This structure I have indicated, especially in the public sphere, in which the deployment and coordination between institutions at the autonomous, foral and local level has made Euskadi a reference. It should also be noted that for several years now the Basque Government has been issuing a gender impact report on its budgets, which has also been discussed in the debate. How many governments do we know who work with this instrument, who have such a powerful tool? Emakunde herself, whom Mrs Arana said she was not a suspect, highlights this gender impact report, and the leadership of the Finance Department in this case, which is indicative of commitment. Even when Mrs Etxebarrieta asked during the budget debate, Mrs Landaida replied that she was totally a pioneer, that she was presented in Europe at the Institute for Equality, and that they welcomed her very well. That report must, then, first of all highlight what it contains, and the measures it proposes to implement. Indeed. That it can be a weakness, because there are some that don't? But it is the road, it is the objective to follow, it is the road that is set for progress in equality policies in this country. As I said, it detects shortcomings, but it marks the way forward, it marks where progress should be made, how to improve, and, most importantly, that there is a commitment from this Government to fulfil it, to take the necessary steps to comply with it. Do we know more engagement than that? Do you know him? We don't know him, of course. I was asking you, Mrs. Arana, what would you do with the 46 million? Yes, but you're telling me that there's no problem in jointly adopting the commitments...! Okay, but first you're gifted and then you're making commitments? That's what you said here! I do share what Mrs Etxebarrieta said, indeed: let us first set these commitments, and then we will give them. Indeed. What's not worth telling us is that we're going to approve 46 million... For what? No, no! The commitments are unset. They're off-limits. Another of the tools available to the Government is the VII Plan for Equality of Women and Men 2018-2021, which is currently under development, which sets out multiple actions to implement. Another one. Mrs. Etxebarrieta was talking about Nahiko, Begira and Beldur Barik, and that's it? No, no, It is much more what this government does! We have Hezkidetza Plana, badauzkagu salt ezberdinetan martxan jarritak planak, Enplegu Sailetik martxan jarritak plan specifikoak; Gizonduz daukagu, erakundearteko lana, Basqueskola, Emakundek elkarlanean gardenen du aldundiekin, Eudelekin... Hainbat ekintza dira; zeharka zabaldu egiten dira politicaka horiek gizarte orotan. Ez da Bakarrik Sailen arteko lana; erakundeen arteko lana ere, hori ere, azpimarragarria da. Finally, I would also like to highlight, indeed, the feminist movement in Euskadi, which in the last forty years has been having a very important and very significant presence. We can't help that. And, in conclusion, Madam the parliamentary chief, with your permission, to give up his value to the Community-Songster, or even to give him his value to the middle-way; the tools mentioned in this second division, by means of an efficient mode, connected with the commitment to present the law project to disappear, always reflecting and taking new steps... Well, I'd like to thank the Socialist team and the Popular Group when they get to this half-presidentity. And say we lead this government so that we can all walk together, step forwards. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u50	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We're going to vote next, the Basque Populous Groups, the half-correction signed by Eukal Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 27; white; 1; Abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u51	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: The other proposal of Podemos as a parliamentary group together, concerning political relations with Saudi Arabia and selling arms to it. The Moment, introduced by the members of the CORA CORA CENTERO CORO, in order that the ships should not carry the military army from the port of Bilbo." So, the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martín, is your word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning congressmen. Welcome to those you welcome, bienvendidas las que dais la bienvendida. We have agreed to a middle course between the two proposed parties, and, of course, to get ahead of us. Both enterprises have common traditions; It is precisely our business with Saudi Arabia and our charge of arms. To accuse them of using arms made in Europe, the waters of human rights in the Yemen war. And, too, in a formal way, we proclaim the role of not being the eucalyptic seal. The war in Yemen, which began in 2015, according to UN data, has resulted in the devastation of Yemen's health, education and all kinds of infrastructure, a food emergency affecting more than 80 per cent of the population, many more than 10,000 dead, and 3 million displaced, let alone the outbreak of cholera, eradicated in that country, which is leading to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. We can say that the war in Yemen has an internal origin, it may be, but both the role of the United States and the role of Saudi Arabia, leading a coalition of the Arab League, attacking a sovereign country, is clearly intolerable. We can say that it is a war between Muslims, between Shia and Sunni, but, as always, it is not Islam, but it is the damn oil. Yves Lacoste said: geography is a weapon for war. Saudi Arabia is interested in Yemen, not because it has resources, but because of its geostrategic position, because it wants to make there an oil pipeline avoiding the Strait of Ormuz that is controlled by its great rival, which is Iran. And we could be talking about this a long time. But not only because of this, because of this war, we question the sale of European, Spanish and Basque weapons to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is one of the largest and worst, cruel dictatorships throughout the world, and is organized by a royal absolutist family and with an ideology of the most radical Islamism, which is Wahabism. A dictatorship that has thousands of political prisoners and prisoners. A dictatorship that executed in 2006 forty-seven people, which is known for the humiliating treatment, to say the least, towards women living in Saudi Arabia. And, if anything, he is a historical financier of Islamist terrorism, before and now, outside and within its borders. That, and let me be clear, is also a great place to invest. One of the first activities carried out by the citizen Felipe de Bourbon when he took office as head of state was to visit his cousin in Arabia, accompanied by the entire court of the Ibex-35. For that it is a good country Saudi Arabia, that must be recognized. And I believe that the Basque Government also knows this; that is why it is supporting a delegation that is currently in Saudi Arabia supported by the Department of Economic Development of the Basque Government, trying to do business, supposedly, in the engineering, machine-tool, automotive components and hydrocarbon sectors; the hydrocarbon sector that I remember has a lot to do with that pipeline that they are going to do in Yemen if they win, as it seems at the moment, the war. For these reasons we question the sale of European weapons to Saudi Arabia; for these reasons the European Parliament called for the embargo on the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia, and we therefore reflect on whether, in addition to the sale of weapons, it is ethical to have political relations and to have commercial relations with a country of these characteristics. That is why we want – and that is why we propose it, and we will continue to propose it if it does not come forward today – to take Saudi Arabia out of any strategic document, from the policy of Basque internationalization or from any trip that the Basque Government supports. Because, going back to weapons, the world arms trade, unfortunately, goes off year by year. In 2015, the Spanish State exported defence material worth approximately 3.7 billion euros. I think it's no surprise if I say that the biggest customer is, of course, Saudi Arabia: more than 500 million euros. And there was a little bit of everything, because there are planes, there are transport planes, there are military planes, but there are weapons and ammunition. According to the Government (as is secret, we have to rely on what it tells us, or not), all ammunition licences for Saudi Arabia were accompanied by certificates of last resort, with strict non-re-export or use clauses outside the territory of the country. That is, surely, according to this, they could not be used in the military intervention being made in Riyadh, but it is that these weapons, for example from the company Installa, have been found in Yemen. And are we going to rely more on what is on the ground, or on the word of the government, this so democratic and friendly government of Saudi Arabia? I, like the minutes of the interministerial board that authorizes the sale of weapons, are secret, so for now I trust what appears on the ground. As I was saying, year by year the records are exceeded, and Euskadi also has, unfortunately, his role there. It is estimated that 15% of these sales originate here in Euskadi, some EUR 550 million. I am talking about all weapons and the military industry. On the one hand, the Basque light weapons and accessories industry ("accessories" may seem very nice: we talk about ammunition and spare parts) sold worth 85 million euros in 2016, the absolute leader of the state. Also one more ranking that we headed, by the way, point it out. And 50% of those sales go to Saudi Arabia. Data from the tax agency, uh, not from Intermon, not from Greenpeace, not from the weapons report, not the center of... or anything. Tax Agency data. On the other hand, the Basque aeronautical and aerospace industry, which has a civilian component but also a strong military component (and we talk about ITP, Aernnova, Sener, SAPA, etc., etc.), participates in European consortia for military transport aircraft, such as the A400M and the C295 (good, they also carry humanitarian aid sometimes), but also collaborates in the construction of the Eurofighter. I believe that this already carries no humanitarian burden on any of its flights, and this Eurofighter has sold to Saudi Arabia. There are Basque components there. And also missile launchers. That's why we think you can't finance, you can't collaborate, you can't help. In addition to a law passed by this Parliament in 2007, it is not ethical to support a military industry, such as some of these companies, which have received at least €10 million in innovation and development aid since 2009 – the ones we have certified. When I read the statistics, in this case of light weapons, ammunition, I could only remember the port of Bilbao. Because it is not that the arms trade in the port of Bilbao is a recent thing, not even of this year, nor of the last decade, but that a conscientious objector firefighter who refused to collaborate in an armament cargo device destined for Saudi Arabia managed to put it on the foreground, managed to remove the consciences, managed to get hundreds of people on the street in Euskal Herria (eskerrik asko, Ina). That is precisely why, so that all this does not depend on the consciousness of one person, or on several, or thousands, but on the consciousness of a people, is why we call for a change in the model of international relations, of commercial relations. But also, and I will say it again later (we are not kamikazes in this), we are betting on the conversion, or the conversion, rather, of the Basque military industry into an industry to civil service, to the service of society. And that is where we will be supporting public aid for industry, public aid for employment in sectors that, in addition to providing benefits, are ethical and contribute to human development. Because we have to be consistent, we have to be coherent, he said. And the other day I asked Mr Lehendakari and Mrs Tapia answered me, but I told him that we agreed with those great headlines, with those great lines of the Basque Government: human development, Auzolan, common good... So far, I think we'll all agree. But to bet on the military industry is not to bet on human development, nor, much less, on the common good. And they'll tell me there's no help, and there are. The ones I have quoted, and there are others too, more or less camouflaged. But even if there were none, and as we now have no competence to prevent the arms trade – Mr Lehendakari was asked the other day – a political statement by the Government or this Parliament rejecting the arms trade from Euskadi has a symbolic value and a political value of incalculable value. I asked, as I said, Mr Lehendakari; in this case Mrs Tapia answered me with the principle of legality, which is what we tend to be used to listening here. Everything's legal, sure, I don't question it, but is everything ethical? Everything okay? I think we need to think about it. That is why in the transaction that we have signed we once again claim the competition of ports, which is not something that we and we invent at the moment; it is something that is contained in the Statute. But we also propose to turn that sector which is now with a strong military presence into a civilian sector, and which is a source of economic and human development for Euskadi and the world. And that's why we say that in this arms competition we work on the basis of the Arms Trade Treaty, which legally, although many things have been left out, is a very powerful tool (other than its implementation); working on a regulation with the Spanish State, so that our exports are exquisite with that treaty and with the values that are explicit in government documents: the document of the government program, which speaks of human development, and also the document of the year 2016 on policy coherence. For all this, of course, in addition to solidarity with the civilian population of Yemen, we demand that the Basque Government break any political or institutional relationship, also with any official and also private body of Saudi Arabia, as well as suspend any strategic option of the Basque Government in Saudi Arabia. I was asking Mr Lehendakari, in a written question, if there was any kind of relationship, and I was told no. On this week's trip for me, the truth, however indirectly, is that there is support from the Basque Government (there is a trip going on right now), there are commercial relations, and there are probably relationships that we cannot have in writing, but that I am sure there are. We reject the fact that the port of Bilbao, and any Basque port, is the gateway to arms shipments to countries at war or to countries that violate human rights, both within and outside their borders. Saudi Arabia meets both conditions, and more so. Also for this reason, and we ask again – we did so also in the CETA debate and we will be very heavy in this legislature, and in addition they are starting, and I say again, experiences that would have to help us – we ask for a Basque observatory for the internationalization of companies and human rights. If we are now at the time of the revision of the internationalisation policy of the Basque Government, I believe that this is the right time to make commitments by the Government and by this Parliament to include such measures. That is why we also call for transparency in the arms trade. In September, it was approved by the Congress in Madrid that the minutes should be public. They're not, and we don't trust them to be. Why? Because there is also an agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of Saudi Arabia that will make all this impossible; a 2016 agreement, which was known in 2017, in which it is impossible for us to know the exact contents of the trade with Saudi Arabia. We'll have the labels, but not the contents. That is why I say again that we are asking the Basque Government to comply with the Charter of Justice and Solidarity with the Depleted Countries and not to be financed by assets, liabilities, fronts or backs of any company in the military industry. That is why the Basque Parliament also requires the Government of Spain to deny permits to export arms to Saudi Arabia and all the partner countries of its coalition, as well as in all cases where there is a serious danger of serious violations of international humanitarian law. Because we cannot allow business to be done in violation of human rights, and they are being done. Or taking advantage of such violations, and they are being done. Not on our behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u53	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. [[Applause]] Mr. Othello has his word, his initiative (please... ) Present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u54	On August 16, 1947, in room number 600 of the Nuremberg Palace of Justice, the trial began against Alfred Krupp, general director of the Krupp industries, the German steel giant. He was accused of collaborating with the German army in war crimes. In his defense, Alfred Krupp, apparently quiet, said: "The Krupp industries never cared too much about political ideals. We just wanted a system that worked well and allowed us to work unhindered. Politics is not our business, we comply with the law." Good noon, everyone. Although today's initiative is signed by the Basque Country and by Podemos, this initiative is not the Basque Country, nor is it the Podemos, or at least won't be. He wants to be everyone who is sick of war, arms, and the crisis of refugees. That's why, first of all, I'd like to thank you guys who came to welcome the Refuxes today. Thanks also to so many agents and associations, which in this country question arms and militaryism. Thanks also, since you learned that weapons are drawn from the port of Bilbo, to all those who are trying to publish and denounce the matter. Thank you, of course, thanks to the consciousness detail, for the fireman Ina Robles, who's here today. And, especially, I would like to thank and welcome Murat Nieh and Haisal al-Zuwani, who are Yemeni people who are here, while they cannot return to their country and are losing their family there. [[Applause]] Looking at the matter, as I was just now saying, the port of Bilbo is mixed with arms and refugees in a accursed triangle. In it two sides of a coin are represented: the red carpet for weapons, the obstructions for refugees. 21st the strong stamp of the century capitalism. These two things, as far as possible, are carried away in silence. Hence it is important that these matters should be published; Like a vampire, he tries to walk away from the light of armed industry, but when we give light to everything that happens, like vampires, he suffers. "La militium y el negocio de la guerra se manejan en la oscuridad, y hay un tupido velo que dificulat mucho saconde este negocio de la lagos kenulos." Let's take a little bit of the thread: Arms exports from the Spanish State to Saudi Arabia over the past two years amount to 661 million euros. The sales list includes small arms, ammunition, bombs, torpedoes, rockets, missiles, firing management systems, military transport aircraft, spare parts for those Spanish-made aircraft, electronic equipment, countermeasure equipment, mortar shells, artillery ammunition, medium-calibre ammunition, signal detection and identification equipment, perimeter surveillance equipment and refuelling aircraft in flight, which are essential for the bombing campaign in Yemen. This is only a small part of a business that is winding up: of the 306 million euros of exports fifteen years ago, to the 4,362 million euros exported last year. A good part of this military weaponry is leaving the port of Bilbao. Next week the ship Bahri Tabuk arrives for its monthly ration of arms containers, and on December 11 the Bahri Jeddah. And February 4 they come back again, and February 20 they come back again, and April 3 they come back again. And Saudi Arabia is not a weapons collector, it uses them. Part of that power is being used in Operation Decisive Storm to massacre Yemen. And it's happening, as I said, not just against ethics, but against the law. And for this to happen, it takes many collaborations and many, too many authorities looking elsewhere. In January of this year, while the King of Spain was closing arms business in Arabia, the UN Security Council expert group report on Yemen noted that widespread violations of international humanitarian law have been observed throughout the conflict, and reported that the Saudi coalition violated international humanitarian law in air attacks on homes, markets, factories and hospitals. In April, the Director of the World Health Organization stated that since the conflict intensified, 325 verified attacks on health facilities, schools, markets, roads and other infrastructure have been recorded. In May, WHO also warned that 7 million Yemenis live in areas with a high risk of cholera transmission. Did it help? Now we are facing the largest outbreak of cholera ever recorded, affecting almost 1 million people. At this time, three hundred other health centres have been damaged or destroyed by the bombings. In May, too, it was Amnesty International's report, among others, that said that the Spanish Government cannot and should not be an accomplice to these crimes. For their part, parliamentary groups should not provide political support for such operations, and should take all possible action to prevent this operation from taking place. That's where we're at. In September, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights presented his report, saying that 5,144 civilians had been killed since March 2015, 3,233 of whom were due to the bombings of the Saudi coalition. By the way, do you know where the Saudi pilots who are bombing Yemen have been trained? In Moron de la Frontera. And you know why? Because the bombings are being carried out with the famous Eurofighters. And do you know what the bombers are loaded with? Iris-t missiles, which are partly being manufactured in Euskadi. The latest UN report on children and armed conflict was released on 6 October, and included Saudi Arabia and the blacklist coalition of groups that killed and maimed minors. This month, on the 9th, the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator warned that if the blockade on Yemen is not lifted, they will suffer the greatest famine that the world has seen for many decades, with millions of victims. And for its part, Unicef says that today there are almost 400,000 children at risk of dying from severe acute malnutrition. Its director says that adding tens of thousands of victims to that number is simply inhuman. Last week, UNICEF, the World Food Programme and the World Health Organization signed a communiqué, saying that 1 million children could become diphtheria infected (there is not a single vaccine in Yemen); some 150,000 undernourished children could die. Together, they say, "We make another urgent appeal to the coalition to allow the entry of basic supplies into which is already the worst humanitarian crisis on the planet." And the UN predicts a catastrophe: it says that 15 million people do not have basic medical assistance. Save the Children has now opened a petition, and says: "In recent years, Spain has become one of the world's largest arms exporters," specifically the seventh, and is Saudi Arabia's third largest arms supplier. Save The Children says that the Spanish government "knows that Saudi Arabia, one of its international 'partners', has bloodstained hands. Even so, Spain continues to export arms to the coalition." "Spain would have to increase," they say, "help and assistance to children trapped in armed conflict rather than selling weapons." And what has Spain done? Over the past three years, Spain has allocated €700,000 in humanitarian aid to Yemen, and over the same period it has sold arms worth €1 billion to Saudi Arabia. That is, 1,428 times more money in arms than in humanitarian aid. Is there anything else to explain? Amnesty International reminds them – and I read – that "the authorization of the transfer of weapons in breach of these obligations" (such as the golden rule of not authorizing weapons to commit atrocities) "not only violates the Arms Trade Treaty, but that Spain could also be responsible (...) for assisting or assisting in the commission of an internationally wrongful act, and persons participating (...) as accomplices could be prosecuted under international criminal law". Spain, with the sending of weapons to the coalition led by Saudi Arabia, is violating the UN Charter, the Geneva Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but this seems to matter to no one. However, the Arms Trade Treaty, the Council's common position and the Law on the Control of Foreign Trade in Defence and Dual-Use Materials, which states that authorizations for arms exports will be denied where there are reasonable indications that they may be used in actions that disturb peace, may exacerbate tensions or conflicts, may be used for internal repression or in a situation of human rights violation. I think what I've just told you fits into this case of the law, no doubt. The Basque Government, for its part, is violating the Law on the Charter of Justice and Solidarity with the Depleted Countries, which in its article 3.3 states that "in its policies of promotion and support to enterprises, the Government will not cooperate in any way with those natural or legal persons engaged in the production, marketing and financing of weapons". We have several orders from the councilwoman, in which hundreds of thousands of euros are destined, through programs such as Gaitek or Hezitek, to companies dedicated to the production of military material. And this goes against the law and we have to stop it. The state government can stop sending weapons today, that's what we demand. The rest of you don't demand this. In their amendments they talk a little bit, but they do not want to require the Government of Spain to refuse arms export permits. They don't say anything about that. We ask for the minimum of decency that Sweden, Holland or Wallonia have had, which have stopped exports. Germany also in some cases. And curiously, there's Wallonia inside. Wallonia is not a state! Were we not the autonomy with the greatest decision-making capacity in Europe? We want to know which companies are in the garlic and how far they are involved, and we want to decide what comes out of the port of Bilbao. And we want you to stop incentivizing the arms industry. What do you want? Are you prepared to make statements without practical effect? Because they know that from here in any case we will be able to demand that the Spanish Government stop these permits, and we can try to put some control in the Basque arms industry, an observatory, something minimal. Why don't you come down here and tell us the truth? They say, "Hey, what matters here is that the arms business continues to work, which is a very lucrative business!". And that all that matters to you, as Alfred Krupp would say, is that this is within the law, even though I question it, and in the end, because the law is flexible and the majority allow it, we end up doing what we want. If you think that, please say that, and don't freak us out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Please, quiet... Mr Barri, your word is yours. Please, I beg you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see, lessons from EH Bildu in relation to weapons and arms trafficking, the use of weapons and the lethality of weapons, not one, Mr Otero. But it's all right! What a big hypocrisy! Look, if Spain were violating... if Spain or the Basque Government in the Basque Country were violating all those international treaties, all those international conventions, would be before the international courts, would be accused, would be convicted in their case... And there is no international judicial procedure open to these characteristics, Mr Martínez Zatón, Mr Otero. There isn't. We as a parliamentary group trust the Basque Government, we trust the Government of Spain and we trust what is the observance of legality and international agreements. And, of course, anyone who has reason to go to court, complain or complain about international trade, should do so. And the courts will speak, but it is a question that is also objective in this debate, regardless of the gravity of the situation. It is true that the situation is very complicated and very complex, the situation in Saudi Arabia is very complex in the area. Well, Mr. Martinez has already talked about the situation of war, conflict... The geopolitical situation, geostrategically, geoeconomically, becomes unsustainable can be said, becomes very complicated. This is joined by a very serious internal situation of the Saudi regime itself, at a time also complicated. The other day he read some articles in the media – many days have come talking about the internal situation of Saudi Arabia – and they said that a very complicated internal situation, and they also talked about times of turbulence that are coming, with a latent confrontation of political leaders, even the heir of the Saudi crown himself with the Wahabist clerics... The truth is, the situation is complicated. Some of the media also spoke about certain issues that have to do with some openings. The truth is that some are ridiculous acts within what is a government or a state, in relation to youth policies, or policies regarding women, or issues that have to do with religious contacts. It was like an incredible event what happened the other day, when Crown Prince Mohamed Salman received a Maronite Christian cardinal, who for decades had not received a Christian, who had not entered the door of the government's palace. But to that, to that kind of little flash that something may be changing, the opposition of the clergy, the opposition of the religious and the internal repression that also exists joins. And also a suspect rapprochement of Russia to the situation and contacts with Saudi Arabia, which is there and which has a lot to do with the arms trade, in short. We already know where arms trafficking goes and we already know Russia's role in relation to this whole issue. These days have been abundant news and articles in different media and by different experts on the internal situation of Saudi Arabia, as I have commented before, and on the situation created by the Yemeni war. Of course, my group – as I said before – supports and supports the legal actions that the Spanish Government and the Basque Government have done to date in relation to international trade, regardless of whether they can be improved and reformulated. We are not going to be contradictory to the position reached in the Congressional Defence Commission in September. Of course, we are part of that committee, our parliamentary group there. And we too understand, as I said before, that the military and defence technology companies of this country (the Basque country in this case) operate legally, an issue that some people can criticise but which today is so. With regard to the sale of arms, indeed, we – and we have also stated this in our entire amendment – value and where we have reference is in the common position of the European Union of 8 December 2008, which defines the common rules governing the control of exports of military technology and equipment. That's a bit of a reference. In addition, and that has to do with the committee I referred to earlier, the Government of Spain has stated that it is not aware that defence material exported by Spain was used in the Yemeni war, and I believe what it tells me that the Government of Spain in relation to these issues. If the Spanish Government says so, I believe it, and logically whoever has data or who has evidence, I say again, that he goes to court, or that he denounces the Spanish Government or those companies that are operating, but in this case I trust what the Spanish Government tells me. The report submitted to the Congress on the sale of arms by the Secretary of State for Trade for 2016 insists that all ammunition licences for Saudi Arabia were accompanied by certificates of last resort, with strict non-re-export or use clauses outside the territory of the country. That is what the Spanish Government says, and I believe that. That is, I cannot criticize you for what the Spanish Government values in its foreign trade reports. Moreover, and that is objective, Spanish legislation is one of the most rigorous in the control and monitoring of the material exported. That has also become apparent, and the people who are in the committees of the Congress of Deputies have had the opportunity to discuss it and to get to know it. On the other hand, important steps were taken at the last meeting of the Defence Commission on transparency and information on the sale of defence material to other countries, and, apart from some initiatives, the Defence Commission did adopt proposals aimed at improving information on defence material exports and facilitating parliamentary work to monitor and monitor such sales. The parliamentary groups have further requested the Government to elaborate more precisely on the type of material exported, and to provide detailed information on sales to countries in a situation of instability or armed conflict or in which human rights violations are committed. Progress is also being made in information. And they have also requested, and that was a proposal of the Socialist Party, a report on the recipient's history that analyses a thorough analysis of the risk of diversion, and deny all exports to states where there is a situation of repression, political violence, or evidence of violations of international law... I mean, you have to value that you're not quiet, that you're taking steps. And also the parliamentary groups in that Defence Commission agreed and approved by a majority the need to improve the monitoring of arms exported to the country of destination, and to enhance the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in that control. In other words, there is a job that some people will underestimate or disqualify, but that is there, and is being advanced by most of the parliamentary groups. Moreover, one of the fundamental elements is that the reference to all these issues is no longer logically in the Basque Country, and not even in Spain, in favour of consensus in the European Union (that is the element...) a common criterion of requirements in all this type of exports, and that is why we have referred in our amendment to the key role. And the key role is the European Union, through its different ways of acting: the pronouncements of the European Parliament, the common positions in the European Council, the actions of the European Commission, and among them some very important ones, such as those of the High Representative in relation to conflicts of these characteristics and situations of these characteristics. That is our framework for action, that is our reference. We have focused on the work of the European Union, its resolutions, common position and work on those keys, and what is decided in the European Union in relation to demanding attitudes, embargoes, hard positions... is what we will support and defend and respect, logically, regardless of whether it may be contrary to the business interests of companies. But in any case, within the framework of the action of the European Union. That is why our amendment to the whole was aimed at the Basque Parliament "taking as a reference, in relation to the situation in Yemen and the responsibility of Saudi Arabia" – we point out – "in the grave humanitarian situation, the European Parliament's resolution of 13 September 2017 on arms exports" in relation to the implementation of the common position I referred to before 2008, and recalls the European Parliament's resolution of 25 February 2016 on the humanitarian situation in Yemen. And I believe that another European Parliament resolution on the humanitarian situation in Yemen is also being prepared now, which we hope will come to light soon. In particular, it recalls the European Parliament's request to the European Union to "effectively promote compliance with international humanitarian law, as provided for in the relevant European Union guidelines; stresses, in particular, the need for the European Union, in its political dialogue with Saudi Arabia, to raise the need to comply with international humanitarian law, and, if such a dialogue fails to produce results, to value other measures consistent with the European Union's guidelines to promote compliance with international humanitarian law". Well, it is pronouncements from the European Union that we bring to the House's approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u58	President, ladies and gentlemen, guests who are with us today, I would like to express my understanding and solidarity with what they are suffering. I understand you well, I'm a direct victim of terrorism, and I've had to attend funerals of friends and Basque citizens blown up by bombs and killed with guns, the same ones Saudi Arabia uses in Yemen. And, therefore, it is not difficult for me to empathize, to sympathize, and also to give them a reflection, if I may. And it is that they differentiate between solidarity and the defence of human rights when they are loaded with values, and those who still, using the same words, do not recognize the damage caused and continue to move in a segment of intolerance in relation to what has happened very recently and we are trying to overcome. This country, the Basque Country, had no war, lived in democracy, and yet shared location with many citizens who have blood-stained hands, a blood that is still fresh. The arms trade, its use against civilian populations, its use for the violation of human rights, has in the past, and continues to do so in the present, led to the positioning of this Parliament. Now more focused on the situation in Yemen, permanently attacked by Saudi Arabia and its coalition. The broad initiative of Podemos, to which Bildu's partial debate joins, gives us the opportunity to speak again. And we do it by greeting the initiative and taking care of the dimension of it. The proliferation of weapons, their macabre business, their use to violate human rights, to impoverish millions of people, to make them flee their countries or to bring about the economic and military interests of great powers, requires us to be on permanent alert and to use our capacity to influence to make it difficult and prevent this from happening further. As far as the century goes, thirty new wars accumulate to those that come from the last century. Russia, China and the United States appear in them; Asia, Africa, America and Europe are their scenarios. Terrorism moves in them like fish in the water. Tens of thousands dead a year, hundreds of thousands fighting, millions fleeing. Are we perhaps facing a re-edition of the Cold War? Are we perhaps faced with another formulation of a third world war? The situation is very serious and affects the whole world, and commitment must indeed be made. The situation affects the whole world in its economy, in its opportunities, in its progress, in its freedom, in its security, in the coexistence between different people, in its tolerance and in its solidarity. Furthermore, we must accept that the political system of international peace is plagued by agencies, treaties, common positions, resolutions and good intentions, but that it is also very weak in results. That is why we must insist and influence, as we are trying to do today in this Parliament. Wars serve to grow hatred and make integration fail, to facilitate the recovery of the extreme right, for conspiracy and manipulation to damage democracy and transparency, for an American, a Russian and a Korean to play with the world and put it in check, make it stand out, and sometimes shake. There are more than 600 million weapons in circulation in the world, there are more than 120 places where it is killed every day. Today in the world there are more opportunities to shoot than to eat. And all you can do to stop it and change it is to do it. Europe is the world's second largest arms supplier. The poorest countries are the most punished. The most needy are the most beaten. Giving people weapons is giving them opportunities to use them. The initiatives and amendments put forward all have common positions: solidarity with Yemen, condemnation of Saudi Arabia, arms control, restrictions on the sale of arms, humanitarian aid, more intervention by Europe and its countries. The joint amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party has two virtues with commitment in these respects. The first, it includes the most unitary elements of what we are dealing with here today, which the most consensus can produce in this House. The second virtue is that it moves in a scenario in line with our competences, which are obviously limited, and also related to the European initiative, which is the framework, is the natural scenario to deal jointly with the stop to arms and the defense of human rights. The transactional amendment of Bildu and Podemos has a difficulty, which are the references to non-arms commercial activities; the new competences that also require a constitutional reform and that are raised by Podemos. With regard to references to non-arms trade, I believe that an important observation should be made: let us distinguish between the Governments at war, the Governments in conflict, and the populations of those countries. Trade relations are related to the citizens of those countries, not exactly to Governments; not primarily or primarily to Governments, but to the populations of those countries. In relation to other competences, as they are proposed, we distinguish what are the competences of the Basque Country and what are the competences of the State. And today the port of Bilbao is a port of general interest exclusive competence of the State, reflected in the Spanish Constitution, which can be modified, because for that is in progress a commission of constitutional reform, proposed by us and agreed in the Congress of Deputies. Yemen has 31 million inhabitants. These 31 million inhabitants have the right to car, railway, petrochemical, steel, food, engineering, transport and international logistics, fashion and clothing, water, renewable energy... that is, the sectors with which Euskadi is now trading in part, and also Spain. Look, for that of solidarity in values, in Spain there are seventeen autonomous communities; of the seventeen, fourteen have a direct relationship in arms with the world. Fourteen. Only Extremadura, La Rioja and the Canary Islands have no arms trade. The rest, they all have. You will appreciate in these autonomous communities and in the municipalities of these autonomous communities diverse governments, plural governments, conservative governments and progressive governments, of the right and of the left, and all of them have commercial relations with the world of arms. We are facing a serious problem, in which one thing cannot be done in one place and recommend another in the other. We must be responsible with everything, see the margins of politics, and try to act on those margins of politics. That is why what we have done in this initiative has been to focus attention on the defence of human rights, solidarity with those who are suffering from terror, the macabre of wars. We fully agree that the arms trade must be intervened, that an effective embargo must be imposed, that the institutions from where the arms are intended must demand greater control, that they may in some cases have a defence connotation, but that in other cases they violate human rights. We fully agree with all this, and that is why we have put the emphasis and proposed a replacement amendment containing 75% of what has been proposed by Podemos primarily and also by Bildu. That is, in 75% of what we are dealing with here today, we agree. It is now the decision of this House to choose between a large statement of ceilings that remains in the trash or a sufficient statement, with a sufficient political position, that produces strength, that produces unity and that produces influence on this aspect that we are dealing with, not only in Euskadi and Spain, but also within the framework of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u59	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u60	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. This is what we have to talk about today, about Yemen and Saudi Arabia, when you're talking about the battle trade, about the port of the Bilbo and the government of Rajoy. At the beginning of October, together with Podemos, he proposed another proposal, and a little later Mr. Other made an interpelation in the government, and the result of this interpelation is, that we have a motive to-day, with other proposals like Podemos. So, a little buzz-happiness. To tell you the truth, I don't know very well what the intentions of the two groups are, or what they are to-day, and much less your priorities. I do not know, to accuse the state of society in Yemen, to proclaim the respect of human rights, to appeal to Saudi Arabia, to claim the jurisdiction of ports from the Euskaca, to demand a place of arms, or perhaps to demand a great demand for the government of Rajoy. In Podemos' original proposition, 10 times, he asks the Spanish Government to take certain measurements, and at three times insists on "Mork" and mentions only once in Yemen. And EH Collect insisted on his motion: "The legislature asks the Spanish Government for Saudi Arabia and Yemen to abandon the sale of arms in all other countries of the coalition which this head has, and to deny the license of exporting arms." And he'd say, "Please place your jurisdictions and your jurisdictions between arms exports between priority." And I'm going to tell you humbly that you didn't make it up. You do not know what you want; you do not insist on priorities, nor do you care for the population of Yemen. You talk about their suffering as a excuse. I don't know what you've come for, but you've come with a different plan today, but your goal was not to defend the society of Yemen. Jatorrizko testuan, ez duzue aipatzen ez blockeoa, ez gosetzea. Neither the blockade on Yemen nor the humanitarian catastrophe situation on Yemen, you and you have not mentioned it in the original text; in today's speech yes, having copied our amendment to the whole. [[Barres]] To say this, I think it would be good to consider what has happened in Yemen the last few years, without revenging his whole history, and it is true that we find it difficult to understand what really is there. In my view, what we are living, or what is living and suffering above all the population of Yemen, is a cold war between two blocs, between Iran on the one hand and Saudi Arabia. Because since 2004 Iran has been intervening, supporting Shia insurgents in northern Yemen. At that time his boss, Hussein al-Huti (who later gave his name to the guerrilla), who died in an armed confrontation, was a Shia cleric and politician leader of the insurgency. In June 2007, after the ceasefire accepted by the two parties, by the Government of Yemen at that time and the insurgency, I recall that one of the suicide commandos of the Huti insurgency attacked a convoy where two Gipuzcoans who were in that tourist convoy died, among others. Well, we all know that 2011 begins the Arab Spring, which begins in Tunisia but expands to other countries in North Africa, and also arrives in Yemen, where President Saleh, who had been in power for twenty years and was a dictator and a corrupt, is forced to hand over power to his vice president. It organizes a government of national union, calls elections, gets legitimately elected, and from 2012 calls all parties to draft a new constitution that is approved. In mid-2014 the Huti guerrilla attacked again, and this time with its former enemy, with President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Look, between 2011 and 2015, the UN Security Council adopted six resolutions and two statements calling for the end of guerrilla violence, the release of the defence minister, who had kidnapped, the release of all political prisoners, and the return of all weapons that had stolen from the army, and that were many. This is, in a nutshell, what happened at that time. And we already at the beginning of 2016 (we do not expect this initiative today, yours, nor yours) have already denounced the bombings of the Arab coalition led by Saudi Arabia, and we call for the immediate cessation of human rights violations. And if in February 2016 we had no problem criticizing and condemning such bombings, neither do we today, logically. Saudi Arabia or any other country that comes to trample human rights anywhere in the world. Now, if, as you demand, we have to break with Saudi Arabia, I ask why not break with Venezuela [[Berber]] , or why not break with China, which are also customers of the weapons produced in the Spanish state...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u61	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u62	... Nor are they particularly models of respect for human rights. Why not break with other customers, such as Iran, who are involved in this conflict? Why not break with Russia, which bombes every day in Syria and is also a customer of the weapons produced here? And, logically, why not break with the United States, which also buys weapons and also manufactures and sells to Saudi Arabia the weapons that are being used in the bombings of Yemen? We have tabled, as Txarli Prieto has already said, an amendment of the whole which seems to us to be much more complete and in line with reality. We call for the immediate end of the blockade, which you have neither mentioned in your text nor in the compromise amendment, because that is a humanitarian catastrophe that is taking place there. We are calling on both the Basque Government and the international community to immediately deliver emergency humanitarian aid. And we ask to deny or revoke the authorization to sell arms to those states in which there is a situation of internal repression and there are rational indications of their use to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law. We demand that the measures of exporting arms should be the greatest security and use of them, and that the European Union should really block the weapons, if it is blocked from here and then from France or Germany or the United Kingdom, it is of no use at all. But, let's see, the Spanish Government and the European Union are responsible for all this, and the EAJ-PNV group in the Congress of Deputies presented on 4 September a battery of twenty motions for resolutions that were in that direction, to control much more the sale and trade of arms. And it was requested, inter alia, that the Government's reports provide detailed information on authorized operations in relation to countries in a situation of instability or armed conflict or in which violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are committed. That licensing authorizations to countries with records of serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law include risk assessment reports, measures taken in accordance with Article 7.2 of the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty... And a whole battery of eighteen other proposals, which I don't have time to summarize here right now. What did EH Bildu do? Nothing, not a single motion for a resolution! Once again, you have not worked at all where you had the chance to work and where the competencies are in this case. You haven't done anything. We can, yeah. We may have done some work on the matter and made proposals that were approved, in part, as our own. But you zero potato once more. Zero potato. If you systematically intend to bring the debates here, to the House that little can do, all right, it is your right. We can give our solidarity as Euskadi, but where we really have to work is, on the one hand, in Brussels – where you have not done much either – and especially in Madrid, where you have done absolutely nothing. So we'll vote for the corrections of the whole of us, and I'll end up with that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u63	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u64	Thank you. I knew they were going to leave Russia, Venezuela... I missed Iran, which did not mention any of the groups... [[Berber]] Yeah? Well, look, I haven't been paying attention. Mr Barrio, the problem is not the resolutions of the European Parliament or the common position of the European Union, which if we take it in its entirety even applies to us. The problem is that it is not implemented, and the problem is that the European Parliament has already given the European Union an earshake because it is not implemented. And Spain is also not implementing that common position. That's the problem. So don't talk to us about legality, when we're talking about that legality not being met, and we're going even further, that we're talking about ethics and another model of human development. As for the presence of Spanish and European weapons in Saudi Arabia, it is clear. There are images of C-90 grenade launchers, BMR-600... In Yemen. So we're not going in there either. As parliamentarian Otero said, we have the example of Wallonia; we could study whether some of the things they do there serve us. Mr Prieto, if you empathize so much, I offer you that you vote in favour, or that we vote for points whatever you agree with our compromise proposal. What you have told here is true, what you have suffered and what the whole Basque people have suffered, but that is not an obstacle for us to allow Basque weapons to be used abroad now. Let's not mix up issues that need not be mixed up. Let's not play dirty games with that kind of stuff. Because the problem – I believe that both the Socialist Party and the PNV have mentioned this issue – with Saudi Arabia is not that the blockade we are asking affects the people of Saudi Arabia. What affects the people of Saudi Arabia is the very dictatorship of Saudi Arabia. And all the umbilical cord we give him of economic aid, of trade with them, with that government, what he's going to do is drown that people, drown women and drown all the people in the popular classes of Saudi Arabia. So, if you agree, do we break those trade relations? Obviously, Saudi Arabia will not feel resentful in its economy because Euskadi breaks with Saudi Arabia, but we will indeed make an ethical and human advance in the commercial relations of the Basque people with the peoples of the world. That's where we can make a head start. At least, even if it is symbolic, even if it does not harm Saudi Arabia, it will honor us as a people, as a Parliament, as a Government, to do that sort of thing. Because it remains in the trash, unfortunately, are the typical statements that we condemn, that we support, that we request... What we have to do is set in motion the few things we can do here. And we're not saying we're going to solve the problem, but we are going to help with that. Mr Aguirre, I understand that I try to judge the intentions of my group and of the group of Euskal Herria Bildu, but our intentions are clear, I have explained them, and in several interventions on very similar topics I say exactly the same things: we want as autonomy, as Euskadi, to have another type of commercial relations, another type of external relations. And you know a lot more than I do about this, but we can change it and we can improve it, and we want Euskadi to be spearhead. I thought that it would also be another tone that was to be used, sincerely, by some of the groups, but it is that you at this point right now are the spokesman of one of the parties that support the Government, a government that, shown in paper, subsidizes the military industry, in breach of a law of this Parliament. That is what we are denouncing right now, that is what we want, and what you do not dare to sign, not even vote in this Parliament. For those of you who are putting, those who are putting red carpets on the military industry also in Euskadi, a military industry that ends up bombing the Yemeni people, because you and I sympathize – and I am sure that you are just as sincere as I am in that solidarity and condemnation of war – that is not compatible with criticizing my group's position. Because it is also criticizing not only the Elkarrekin We can, not only Euskal Herria Bildu, but at that last point in your resolution (of your resolution, forgiveness), which calls for recognition of the role of NGOs and civil society, which are demanding precisely things very similar to what we are demanding. And I don't think it's the day to talk about Venezuela. We'll talk about Venezuela on Monday. If you want, report it, submit a resolution preventing Basque weapons from going to Venezuela! We will talk about the possible violation of human rights, or not, that is taking place in Venezuela. Venezuela is a perfectly homologable democracy, and I do not say that, as the United Nations says. And we are not going to mix here now Venezuela's debate with Saudi Arabia, because Venezuela is not a country at war. Let's not mix, let's not find... Russia is not a country at war. Why do we put Russia through, if it's not a country at war? We have not even mentioned the United States; we are talking about what we and we can do here in Euskadi on this issue. And I'm finishing up. One giant said: "General, your tank is stronger than a car, it sweeps a forest and crushes a hundred men, but it has a flaw: it needs a driver. General, your bomber is powerful, flies faster than the storm and loads more than an elephant, but has a flaw: he needs a pilot. General, man is very useful, he can fly and he can kill, but he has a flaw: he can think." And you have to think about it. Think, then, if we want a country in motion. Basque Country munduan nahi badugu, zer Basque Country nahi dugu munduan? I am clear, we in our group are clear: the Euskadi of that human development, of peace, of the example, has the competence to do something or not to do it. Let's be brave, let's think, let's act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u65	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u66	[[He put a veil on the confessionals' hall.]] Well, somehow, this is also a small altar. Aguirre jauna, 28 December (28 December, Innocent Day) of 2007, passed the law to which we refer, the Charter of Justice and so on. On 9 January it was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. On 10 January, a subsidy of EUR 3 million was approved for an arms industry. Since the adoption of the law, it has been in non-compliance. Who doesn't know what the priorities are? Very easy: a clear demand from this Parliament to the Government of Spain to reject the applications for the export of arms to Saudi Arabia, and that we start to shake hands with the Basque military industry, which is a lot and is working hard with the war in Saudi Arabia and the coalition against Yemen. It's very simple. That on the one hand. On the other hand, Mr. Prieto, please, directly lie to you. You're talking about 75% of the deal. Yesterday afternoon, about seven o'clock in the afternoon, I sent them an e-mail, and I told them that after arriving at a compromise amendment we felt it was important that tomorrow we send a message of unity, at least in some aspects of the issue to be discussed. So we leave the door open to contributions or to vote for points tomorrow, if they see that they do not convince them some of our requests. No one has answered this e-mail yet. Mr Barrio, Mr Prieto and Mr Aguirre, the three recipients. So now don't come up with a percentage agreement, when I haven't even been answered by emails. And another thing I'll tell you. It is not the fault of this parliamentarian or this parliamentary group, which has so far been committed to the construction of peace in this country and throughout the world, it is not our fault if you (the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party) have problems explaining your position in the Yemeni war and in the sale of weapons to the Saudi coalition. It's not our fault. I do not want to continue throwing wood, and, in fact, my last words will not use them to fuel sterile discussions. I prefer to address those who, beyond these walls, are rendered unbearable what is happening. Actually, whoever I'm going to address is who I want to listen to. And I have to confess I'm broke. And someone will think "Welcome to real politics," and it costs me, or I must be an idiot, another idiot who doesn't know how to do this cynicism policy and who still thinks that if it makes any sense to be here it is precisely to take initiatives like those of today, that they are looking for nothing but to try to do that little thing that can be done from here against the war, even if we know that the problem of war is infinitely greater than our possibilities for action at this time. And today I would like to say that from this Parliament we are sending a strong message to the military boot and to abuse. But I cannot say, and it seems to me that this Parliament, in its cowardice, becomes small, sad and grey. Tracking the military industry is not only difficult; it's hard, it's very hard. The expression that comes to my head is "the soul to the feet", you drop the soul to the feet. And for the time I've been behind the subject, then, there's always something that cheers you up, isn't there?, and in this case it's been a song by a Colombian singer, who, although not very orthodox in this forum, then, all I have left to offer is a song and the commitment to persevere. Marta Gómez (named the author), at the time of writing the song, explained that she wrote it thinking of so many wonderful inventions that people have invented throughout history with the sole objective of making life happier, and that she did so dreaming that it was possible for us to dedicate our talent only for this, and to war we did not dedicate a minute of our time. And the song says, "For the wind, a comet. For the canvas, a brush. For a nap, a hammock. For the soul, a cake. For silence, a word. To the ear, a snail. A swing for childhood. And in the ear an accordion. For war, nothing. "For heaven's sake, a telescope. A squall, for the sea. A good book for the soul. A window to dream. For the summer a ball. And paper boats. A good matte for the winter. For the boat, a bully. For war, nothing. "For the sun, a kaleidoscope. A poem for the sea. For the fire, a guitar. And your voice to sing. For the summer, bikes. And soap bubbles. A hug for laughter. For life, a song. For war, nothing. "To heaven a rainbow. To the forest a roarer. For war, nothing. For the field a poppy. For the sea a rumble. Nothing for war. For the breeze a pen. For crying a song. Nothing for war. For insomnia the moon. To warm the sun. And for war nothing." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Silence, please... Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u68	Thank you, President. Pretty soon. I repeat myself in the first part of what I have spoken in my initial speech. I mean, from the EH Bildu group we can't get any lessons from anything. And this non-war song (which we can all subscribe to, of course), the least qualified in this House to sing it is a spokesman like the one who has just spoken. We understand that there are people in this House, there have been people killed by the violence of fanatics who were thinking of a war that their group does not yet condemn. We remember Fernando Buesa, we remember Gregorio Ordóñez, Enrique Casas... In that regard, I must say that there is no right to listen with that cynicism and with that irony of political messages. In addition, we have to say that when EH Bildu ruled the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, aid and subsidies were given to arms and military technology companies, and that has to be acknowledged, and at that time they did not say anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u69	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u70	Mr Martínez, I believe that sometimes, when pursuing a noble end, an important end, an end of the dimension that is being addressed here today, it is good to bite your tongue. I have bitten it in my first speech, because I am much more interested in an agreement in this Parliament, so that there can be a clear and decisive statement against wars, against arms, in favour of human rights. But, of course, what I can't admit is that you talk to us about ethics, always pretending to give lessons in that sort of avant-garde consciousness of the whole world, and you swallow, you eat with potatoes things like (I'll read) "We're pacifists and we're against war, but we don't decide what boats are used for. One must first bring the food dish to his children and his family, but the balance of geopolitics and world peace cannot fall on the workers' backs. We have contradictions because we are conscious": Mayor of Cadiz, supported by the Secretary General of Podemos, Mr. Iglesias Turrion (i.e. the evil of the Churches, not the good, who is Posse) and not criticized by anyone at all in his political formation. This is his double morality, his double language, his double ethics. This is it. This is it. But, finally, you insist on provoking debates of this kind, insist on making body to body, that you will have it, and your contradictions will be reflected here, so that they are a little more humble and want to give less lessons to the world. Lessons are given when one has a history, lessons are given when one has a backpack, when one has a bag. Now, when it's starting, especially you learn. [[Bevels]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u71	Silence, please... Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u72	Because some of you who are already combing canas where have you been as a conscience so far, and when have you made a real commitment, and have stood out when human rights have been permanently violated here? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u73	Silence, please! Silence, please! Silence, please! You've had your shift. Please, quiet... Please, silence! (Response) Would you please... Mr Martínnez! Silence, silence! Lander, silence! One. First warning... Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u74	I don't understand their concept of democracy, which they want them to listen to, and when they don't like the word, they try to boycott it, and they try to get on top of the word. Hey, have some composure, behave yourself, which I've heard. And I don't listen to things that have no political foundation! But anyway, I respect them, just because we're in a camera. And you, who always brag about the defense of the word, when you are contradicted, when you are put in front of your mirror, when you are told things that you do not like, try to make kicks that, in the end, are not proper to democratic and ethical behavior in a chamber. I hope you'll spare me the time this time of the snap break that's been going on for almost a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u75	I stopped the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u76	Well, a little less. [[Barres]] Mr Otero, you have a hard ear and a short view, because I have responded to the political approach of your compromise amendment in my first speech, and I have told you that there is a part of Podemos and Bildu with which we agree, and in my opinion I estimate it to be 75%. Look, if you estimate it in another percentage say so, it gives me exactly what your estimate is. Say that's why I lie...! I've told you we don't agree. We do not agree to limit commercial activity, not about arms, but about everything else, because it falls and has a negative impact on 31 million citizens who would be affected by it. I have said that I do not agree that it is the competence of the Basque Country, a port of general interest, because it is not the competence of the Basque Country. There's basically the difference. Points 1, 6 and 7 of the amendment we have tabled refer to the effective arms embargo, to greater control, to the repeal of arms transfers, and to those who have the power to do so, namely the Government of Spain and the European Union. Because, in the arms market, who authorizes, who has the capacity for authorization, it is the Government of Spain, under the control of the Congress of Deputies, and it is also the European Union under its directives. Therefore, we have spoken to the end, we have said everything that is substantial in this debate, and what happens is that you have prejudices to reach agreements with us, and you have difficulty in accepting positions different from yours. It also tries to invest permanently in the truth of truths, and it is also sometimes a matter of hiding a past that is really dark. Look, human rights have not been invented since you are a parliamentarian in this Parliament. They already existed and were in force in previous decades. And what happened in previous decades in this country? That those human rights were permanently violated. Look, some of us defend human rights in every circumstance and in every situation, others just for convenience. You do not want arms trafficking today, but what you represent politically, many of you... in the past you were collecting weapons to nullify the one you thought differently and wanted to live in freedom and democracy. Hey, you guys do self-criticism! Because, as they reproach so much, to be credible they will have to make a firm, clear and responsible act of rejecting violence and the use of weapons in all kinds and conditions and by all citizens. Today in Euskadi there are still three hundred murders that are not clarified. You come here to defend... In defense of human rights, come here and ask for clarification...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u77	Mr Price, please go to the end. Thank you. In conclusion, Eucabertians, Mr Aguire, are yours. [[Berber]] There's no damnation, and there's no answer call. Lander, no. Mr Martínnez, no. Besides, I've asked and it's not really there. No. No. [[Berber]] Mr Martínnez, you don't have the word. You don't have the word. No, you don't have the word. We're in a discussion, you don't have the word. You don't have the word! Mr Martínnez, you don't have the word! We're in a discussion. The question was high. Then it goes on to the former; it always goes by. You don't have a word. Mr. Aguire, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u78	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u79	Mr Martínnez, the old warning. You don't have the word. Mr Martínnez, you don't have the word. The second warning I give you. Mr. Martínnez, number three, you're going out! (Response)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u80	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Martínezin, on your other proposal, you insist on joining the American people in Yemen and the bombarding of the coalition which Arabia directs to Arabia to conclude at once. And on this point we are quite satisfied, and, as I have said before, in our previous law, before we expected the present point, we asked the same question, and gave him a severe review. In the second place, you're asking him to break up all the relationships to Saudi Arabia, to break human rights over and over again. And here again, I agree with condemning all those who break human rights? But you never criticize similar actions in other places. And, for instance, the bombards of Russia in Syria and the unacceptable of Yemen are unacceptable in Syria. If you ask me to break up all my relationships with Saudi Arabia, then ask Russia to do the same. So I must ask you for a minimum of consistency, and we must here, today, yesterday, or tomorrow, denounce all of them. I repeat, we have no problem condemning any bombing of the civilian population anywhere in the world. Nor the bombings of the Arab coalition led by Saudi Arabia. But you have two measuring rods. I will read you a brief press release on 26 April this year (by the way, 80th anniversary of the bombings of Gernika): "According to statements by the Lieutenant General of the Kremlin Sergei Rutskoy, Russia has carried out more than 23,000 missions and around 77,000 bombings in Syria since the beginning of the intervention", which was in October 2015. In sixteen months, 77,000 bombings. There are no dead people because no one knows them. And if we condemn the bombings of Yemen, which I have no problem with, we also criticise Russia's support for Bashar al-Assad, who uses chemical weapons against his population and bombards every day. And I don't care whether it's Russia, America or anything. We are going to denounce all of them equally, the violation of human rights. As far as arms trade is concerned, there are also contradictions, yes. If you get your guns out of the bar, because of you, you know, 'cause you know, you know, you know, you know, you don't care if you get your weapons out of Cadname or Ferrole or Baion. I don't care. Les is lo mismi. Because I will also mention here now the mayor of Cadiz, José María González Santos, "Kichi", militant of Podemos. He said: "In case anyone had any doubts, this government team gives its support to any initiative that increases the workload in the shipyards of the Bay of Cadiz. Let there be no doubt about our support for the shipyards of the Bay of Cadiz." He said: "I support and support the negotiations that SEPI and Navantia are developing so that the corvette contract will be signed as soon as possible." That was Podemos' militant. But it's just that Jorge Suárez, mayor of El Ferrol, is a United Left activist, and he says exactly the same thing. Because, of course, it is in Cadiz, in Puerto Real, and in El Ferrol where the corvettes are going to be made, which is a contract of 3 billion euros and which will surely give employment to about 10,000 families, between direct and indirect. And, Mr. Otero, you said in your motion: "The legislature is concerned about the use of arms drawn from the Basque Country or the Basque Country, especially when the precise use of these weapons is extremely difficult to know, and therefore the opportunity of making war is indisputable." You've often mentioned a number of companies here, and I don't know where you start and where the Basque Country or Basques end is like me, it's a conceptally an idea, but you never mention other companies. For my part, I shall speak of them: Snecma (Société Nationale d'Etude et de Constration de Motours d'Avions), Dasult, Safran, BAP, Manfuciture d'Armes de Bayonne, they also export weapons. They're all in the North, but you never say that, do you? You never mention them. I'll talk about them here. And then, in politics, it's one thing to enfise, to play a part in a discussion. But, please, it's another thing to make this discussion a play, and today there were people in Yemen, and I thought that was more serious than making a play. It was for me, hypocrisy, and it was cheap populism on your side. I'm sorry to say... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u81	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote... [[Words]] Please, please, please... Mr Martínnez, wait a minute. Please, Mr Martínez, wait a minute. [[Words]] Save these banners because they're forbidden. They're forbidden in this Parliament. No, it's forbidden to get out the banners, please. I'm going to have to throw you out. Please, save these banners because they're forbidden because we've all decided on the rules. Please, please. Yes, now. [[Words]] But where was the personal pussy? There's no personal pussy. It hasn't been and I've consulted. I've questioned him and said... [[Berber]] Mr Martínnez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u82	Yeah, yeah. The alluded may feel alluded to, and the non-alluded feel unalluded, obviously. Mr. Prieto made a direct reference...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u83	Mr Martínnez, you don't... Mr Martínnez, you don't have the word. (Response) Mr Martínnez, that's enough. (Responsible.) Mr Martínnez... Mr Martínnez, you haven't got a word! Mr Martínnez, you haven't got a word! Martíne, one. (Responsibility.) Mr Martínnez, the second. On the third day you're going out. (Response) Mr Martínnez, you're going out. You shut up or you're out. It's up to you. It's up to you. (Berbots) You're going out. You're going out. You're going out! Shall we go on? We're going to vote. Together we vote for the delivery correction signed by Podemus and EH Collect. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 26; rivals, 46; white; 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u84	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[(stop) (Protest shouts are heard from the public box)]] On the street... On the street, please... After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 9; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstaining, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u85	So it's not accepted to the full correction of the Basque Potion Group. Next, we vote for the whole correction of the Eucian patriots and the Socialists of Euzal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 37; the opponents, 35; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-23.u86	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Next, I'll read two institutions of expression. November 25th. The institutional representation of the Basque Laws of the International Day against women's violence. "The parliamentary Euscal, November 25 for the abolition of violence against women on account of the international day of this kind of violence, once again insists on the spontaneous character of this kind of violence and our commitment to a society free from violence against women. In like manner we assert that there is a connexion between the neglect of the causes of the genus and the violence of the women. "Not only does the victims of violence against women, and the survivors of them provide for help, but it is necessary that they should act on all the planes of their intervention: prevention, detection, attention, protection, coordination, justice and observation. "As part of our institutional commitment to building an equal society free of violence against women, we must take on the challenge of incorporating the right to reparation for victims into the response to violence against women. To this end, it is necessary to have the means and resources to make visible all the impacts of violence and all its expressions, contributing to their social delegitimization. It is necessary to give voice and prominence to both women victims of macho violence and the associations in which they are grouped, recognizing their legitimacy in proposing ways of redress. "This reparation should aim at the full recovery of victims and survivors of violence against women. It should therefore include the improvement of all the services and systems involved through its systematic evaluation. "Therefore, in this context of the International Day against Violence against Women, the Basque Parliament states: "Bat. Our commitment to include in the political agenda reflection and recognition of the right to reparation for women victims of violence, for their full recovery and for the exercise of their right to a life free from violence. "Two. Our commitment to continue spreading and improving plans and measurements in different areas of society, or, if it can, to attack the machista of violence together with the collective of women and the collective feminists, as well as with civil society and people in general. "Three. In order to promote our commitment to the structure of society, so that popular institutions, communications, culture, society, and economy, may be introduced, as well as those of the whole community. "Four. Our responsibility, by the consent of all political forces and institutions, may be reached by the necessary means, since it is the purpose of advancing violence against women to disappear from our society." The institutional expression of the Eulegian legislature on the bill of Child Rights. "When the Union received the Word of Child Rights from the time that they were 28 years old, the Basque Parliament accepts this institutional expression, which has been made by Unicef on a parliamentary committee. "By the liberty, justice, and peace principles which are preached in the letter of the United Nations, the dignity and rights of all the members of the family are approved. "The family is considered to be a fundamental group of society and a natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members, and in particular of boys and girls, and must therefore receive the necessary protection and assistance in order to be able to fully assume their responsibilities within the community. We also recognize that the family has a primary role to play in the development and evolution of minors and in the transmission of values. "In Euskadi, we are aware of the need to address work with families as a plural and diverse reality, and therefore measures aimed at protecting families, as well as children and adolescents, must be measures that address and adapt to that diversity. "The Basque Parliament recognizes children and adolescents as subjects of full right present and future of our society and undertakes to continue to work together to ensure fair and supportive human development, based on the best interests of children. "The parliamentary law of Europe admits that the social value of children and teenagers is beyond the private and familiar domains of families, so that it is bound to advance to a Basque, who is a friend of children and teenagers, and to make a treaty for children and teenagers. He's engaged to the welfare of the Basques, the children, and the teenagers. "This alliance may be the basis of a strong commitment to children and teenagers, which would protect all children and teenagers, with a warrant that no one should leave behind." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
