ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "To decide once and for all the drawings of November 9 a.m. According to the 92.1 article of the rules, as the Companary Parlamentary Groups of Eslamentary Populars, as regards the inability of Osalist." It was a draw to collect EH, together with the vote of half-correction introduced by the Podemos and the Basque Popular Group. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. All right, well, I'll get you tickets, please. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 36; the opposites, 38; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u1	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. [[Berber]] We'll next vote for the entire Euzian Abertist and Basque Socialist correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u2	So since the equality is equal, we're going to vote again for the total correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u3	It is therefore, as it preserves a draw, to be left for the next plenon. First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced at Maddalen Irina by the parliamentary members of the EH Collector, concerning the independent Republic of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. The propos' turn, Mrs. Iritre Okiñena, is your word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u4	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, members of the government, all good days. The tradition of independence of the Republic of Catalonia has brought us here today, throughout Europe, the whole world, the special attention of the Nikola and Basque People, and the declaration which has given rise to great hope at the same time. Our intention, as we have insisted on in this parliament and in the streets of the Basque Country, is to obtain a complete confession of the Republic of Catalonia, as well as of the words we gave. We want the people of Catalonia to feel the support of the Basque People, and to know that the world, like any process of independence, has been difficult even to make Catalonia, and that the Basque Congress wishes to protect him completely, solidarity, and support him, to make him confess. I'm going to read you a quote: "In this difficult context, my only goal is that everyone's rights are respected. My desire is to restore the legality and freedom of all citizens, which some have wanted to change desperately for the calamities of war and the arbitrary tyranny of their heads." It is the canteen we have been listening to every day in the mouth of Philip VI of Spain and his Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, with the applause of the Socialist Party and Citizens, but the quote corresponds to King George III of England in his first address in Parliament after the declaration of independence of the United States, an illegal act in the eyes of the British Crown. Seven years later, George III recognized the independence of the United States. In history we shall find similar anecdotes and positions again and again, and again and again we shall find two leading men of the same type: A people who wish to be free by proclaiming freedom, on one side, and on the other a government which tries to keep the state quo, ready to oppress the people who are always or almost always free, the people who want to be free, whether more or more powerful, economically, or even militaryly. But yet those who teach us the way of ten thousand instances, the desire to live and not to live under the yoke of others, which, in the end, has often triumphed with much effort. And I'm sure that even this time Catalonia will get there before it's too late, and I'm sure that this time the Basque Country will get it because we've been a people we won't give up and we won't despair. The United States, which were still colonies of the United States, had their own article of 155, which is called the "misssible laws" of the House of London, and which had given birth to independence. I sometimes think that the Spanish Government has looked upon it as a means of making its measures. But it is true that Spain has naturally enough tradition against free nations, without looking elsewhere, which we have long known in the Basque Country, at least for the last nine hundred years. And in this tradition we have a clear mark: Spain has never been willing to converse, but Spain has never sought a definite solution. Nunca, nunca jamás, ha negociado me ha intendado bellare a pactos por su propia voluntad Esaña. Never in history. Ez Euskal Herrian, ez Katalunian, ez Kuban, ez Filipinetan, ez Flanders. Han, oraindik, umeak ongi portatzen ez direnean, badakizue zer esaten dieten? Well, that's the diet Albako dukea etorriko zaiela; mehatxu hours Egyptian diet. Because, although several centuries have passed, in the Netherlands, in Flanders, in much of Belgium, the man in the sack is called Duke of Alba, and is the figure that serves to frighten the children, because the Spanish troops who entered blood and fire to suppress the desire for freedom are still remembered. By the way, many years ago those lands were liberated from the tyranny of the Spanish Crown, not without great difficulties. Bide battez esango diszuet Nafarroa indarez konkistatu zuen Albako dukearen somea zela Flandeskoa –ikusten duzue no la batzen diren gauzak–. Following the same script of centuries, force, threat, prison, fines, lies, and abuses, are the principal ingredients that are now forming the script of the Spanish State. They are writing another black page in Spanish history, which is now the whole support of the entire economic, commercial, and mediatic powers, complete and shameful. I begin to look at history, and if it is short, it seems to me proper to do it for the last few years. Zapatter, Prime Minister of Spain, 2003, 14 years old, that famous phrase, remember? : "Apoyare la reforma del Stateto que apurebe el Parlamento croata." I repeat: "Apoyare la reforma del Stateto que apurebe el Parlamento croata." Eta, gero, 2015eko irailean, Kataluniako Parlamentuak statuetutu berria onartu zuen, 120 diputaturen botoekin, Partidu Popularreko 15ek kontra bozkatu baitzuten; baina, proyektua Madrilera iritsi zenean, there was waiting for Alfonso Guerra, who boasted after having brushed it, not to say that he had brushed it completely. But, despite all this, it was submitted to a referendum in 2006, and, although not even half of the census took place in the referendum, the Statute was approved by the citizens of Catalonia. Then came the People's Party's appeal, including collecting signatures gnawing across the state at catalophobia (and then talking about social and what kind of fracture). And then the Constitutional Court ruling came in 2010, brushing everything Alfonso Guerra hadn't dared to brush. And the message to the Catalans, and therefore to all others (of course, yes to us and ourselves), was forceful and clear: "You can vote whatever you want" – and remember that you did it in a referendum with all the blessings – "you can vote whatever you want, because we will do whatever we want". You can vote whatever you want, because we will do whatever we want. And since then, Katalunia has made a thousand offers to Spain... To get an attorney. No. For the capacity to query. No. No, no, no, the answer was always no. and the citizens of Catalonia chose hope and freedom instead of being able to submit and live under yoke. That's what they did, and we've been seeing these changes in the past few years. 2015ean, mundu guztiaren aurrean, independentziare bidea propusatu zuten alderdiek Parlamentuaren gehiengo osoa lortu zuten, éta hitza bete dute. Ez two beasts ezer egin. Hitza bete... That no one is mistaken, the Catalan institutions, their political representatives, have done what they promised when they presented themselves to the elections: proclaiming the Catalan Republic, that citizenship – said to be by the way – had approved on 1 October. On the other hand, in Spain we saw what we could expect. They have taken the defence of the law, and they say that legality is a pretext to defend everything, we have seen that it is none of their business to beat the people, to steal their votes, to pawn their votes, to put the President of Parliament into prison, to send him to prison, or to put him to prison, and to imprison the members of the Government, by sending him to ruin the Constitution they say they love so much. Eta niri ghedera bat datorkit burura, Honen guztiaren aurrean: in what you call the defense of legality, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, how far are you willing to go? Calling citizens has already seen that they don't care much; stealing ballot boxes, either; skipping their own Constitution, little; declaring secret state police operations, neither. I ask you: how far are you willing to go? Spain has been loyal to his history this time, and he has not yet sat down on the negotiation table. Once again, he has chosen a one-sided road to college. Spain has been the only one who has chosen a college route throughout this process. Unilatal, violent and violent. The worst part is that they don't have a very quiet conscience, or God knows, and that they always lie about it. That's why the Spanish Foreign Minister dares to say that BBC, the 1st of October, were false. Will someone in this parliament tell me that the beatings he had in Catalonia on October 1 were false? Will somebody tell me they were fake? The PP reps, the Social Party, will you tell me they were false? Mr. Urkullu, do you still think there were incests on October 1st? They dare to say this, and if they dare to say so, they dare to say that referendum had no guarantee, after attempting to destroy every guarantee. That's why they dare to say that parsific resistance is violence, and there's only one reading about the Supreme Court's car in Forcadell. And in that endless chain of lies, they come to see a million people in unionist demonstrations that barely cover 500 meters, and thousands of people in demonstrations that occupy kilometers. But minute sin, I don't give it almost any importance, because of the demonstrations, by asking people, it solves very well who had the most weight or who didn't. Much more worries me that they dare to falsify documents to discredit, for example, Mrs Forcadell, and try to sow confusion. And they do it because they know it's the only way to get away with it, and it's because it's the discouragement among the Democrats, the discouragement among the independenceists, that they won't vote on the 21st, because if they come back to the polls the more than 2 million citizens who opted for independence on October 1st, there is no diplomacy, no press, no one who can continue to cover the shames of Spain. And this is called democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in a word, the republic is proclaimed, but the game is not over, and it is proper that all of us should be informed. A process of independence has never been easy. And at first I have said that the King of England confessed his independence seven years later. And sometimes it will seem that things are better and sometimes worse, and sometimes it will seem worse, and sometimes slower. Now Spain wants to spread the desanimos. And it's very important that we don't believe the messages they want us to believe: do not defile these messages. And it is well to know what is the chief autochry in Katalunia: they did not well measure the extent of the violence of Spain's answer. They didn't measure it. In the Basque Country, perhaps, we are better acquainted with the subject, and when the Spanish State says a todo, we know what it means by that which means a todo. We've understood very well a long time ago, even when it's 900 years. Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature have never been an easy process of independence in the world, and since it is proclaimed independence, there are months and years when it is celebrated with fireworks. And we all know how grateful they are to establish independence by the protection of citizens from without, not at the moment of festivities, but from the moment they begin to claim it. "I will call every one of you today, that our word may be clean: that the message may be clear in the confession of the independent republic of Catalonia, made on the 27th of October, because it is a confession of democracy. The embraces of that parliament, the tears of that parliament, the smiles of that parliament, and the kisses of the step he had taken. It would be great today, ladies and gentlemen, to confess the Basque Laws to the Republic of Catalonia. Big for them and big for us. Let's not waste this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u6	Thank you, President. Well, I must acknowledge, Mrs Iriarte, you and your group, the tenacity in getting us to finish talking every week about Catalonia, for some reason or for others. But today we come, forgive me for telling you, to the debate of nothingness; of the emergencies of Bildu, which are years away from the emergencies of the Basque citizens. I recognize that with a very clear and concrete proposal: to recognize the Catalan Republic. However, we do not know whether it was the one that lasted eight seconds on 10 October, or the one that would have lasted in the imaginary for a weekend from 27 October. But, in any case, that recognition would be a solemn act that is not going to happen. And, knowing that result, even though you were warned, you were committed to presenting the initiative, you were committed to taking our time to discuss something that does not exist. And that's not what the socialists say: it's that no one, anywhere in the world, in that kind of geographical tour of history a little sui generis that you do, no one, I say, anywhere in the world (except, yes, the Town Hall of Villabona), believes that the Catalan Republic has been proclaimed. He has stayed in an attempt, doing legal engineering, out of the law, which is already a PhD in engineering and law. And for that, the whole architecture of Catalan self-government has been dismantled: social, economic, which with so much effort many freedom fighters have been committed to building for many years. That's why no one believes it, starting with the independenceists, unable to even know which of the stars represents them, whether the blue background or the yellow background, whether the red star or the white. Nor do they trust that Puigdemont, who has revealed himself as a great messiah – who, by the way, is taking refuge in Europe to overthrow Europe – can be the leader who leads this world after the elections. As a great spoil of international periplo, it is true that he has obtained the enthusiastic applause of the European right and the vote against even his friends in the Flemish Parliament. And they turn an appeal for a general strike into an immense blockade, with the ultimate aim of making the lives of Catalans even more difficult, if any. Still, Bildu strives to bring the opposite to the lawyers of those imprisoned with whom he claims to be in solidarity. Says the defender of the former councillors of Republican Left: "It is evident that the investigated persons do not currently hold any executive office. Following the adoption of the resolutions implementing Article 155, Parliament was dissolved in Catalonia, with the aim – which my complainant shares – of participating in the electoral process set by the Government of Spain." And the Catalan reality right now does not have much to do with independence, but it does have to do with independence obsessions, which are different things. But the Catalan reality, because of these obsessions, is that about two thousand companies have changed their registered office and another thousand also the tax office, and others freeze planned investments in industry that generate thousands of jobs, that unemployment is growing as never in the last ten years, and that families and gangs avoid conversations in order not to confront each other. And the legal reality of Catalonia is that in a month's time there will be autonomous elections, which will have sufficient legal guarantees and to which all parties who so desire will be able to present themselves, and it seems that everyone will do so, without the defence of independence being any impediment to active or passive law. An electoral effort in which, by the way, we Socialists have been committed since the dismemberment of autonomy began in those bad days of 6 and 7 September. A commitment in which our Catalan comrades were turned, in an effort in which the lehendakari was also engaged. An effort for Puigdemont to employ the most personal faculty that a president has in the exercise of self-government (the dissolution of the Chamber) and that same president, when he was still, aborted, failing his commitment to comply and enforce the law, failing his commitment to serve the Catalans (all, not only those who voted for him), failing his commitment to the word given to our colleague Miquel Iceta and the lehendakari Urkullu. And we have doubts as to why he missed his word. Perhaps it could have been because he never had such a word and only wanted to appear to be a dialogue man, adding one more to the multitude of lies that have accompanied the whole process, when he already actually had a planned escape plan. But it may also have been that he missed his word because he was frightened by the three hours of tweets full of the word "traitor" (of his own government partners, by the way). A word, that of "traitor", that has not frightened the mayors and mayors of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who have been putting up with it since the beginning of this process and since they decided to respect the law instead of dragging their neighbors and officials into the abyss, without, by the way, receiving a glimpse of solidarity from the autonomous institutions. The socialists committed themselves until the last second that article 155 did not apply, because that means that legitimate representatives of an autonomous community have skipped the legality that made them that, representatives of citizenship, the legality that derives from the Constitution and the Statute, because in that condition they were such representatives. And, therefore, they have boosted the autonomy that cost so much to recover after the dictator's death. But elections had to be called for the resignation of the then president. Today everyone, by the way, is willing to participate, and these elections are the opportunity for a new parliament, not just a new government, to be able to do what has not been done: try to agree between them to propose an agreement to the Government of Spain. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu. And therefore, your initiative, let me tell you, has already become old before discussing it. And their debate responds to the permanent obsession to bring this issue, which seems to be, by the way, the only way Bildu has found to oppose, to take his head out mediaally and, in passing, to try to put the PNV in a bind. An obsession that now accompanies pure obscenity: decide with your accuser finger who is fit or not to rule Euskadi, that that is another of your campaigns. It is asking for the card of rulers, who, by the way, remember the worst time of attempts to exclude that there was in our most recent past and what I would not like to remember, but I still have to remember, unfortunately. Once again, in case they still have any doubts, we do not admit any vetoes or exclusions. That we do not want Bildu to be excluded from political decisions, as he did at the time, but neither will we admit that you want to exclude anyone. We don't admit it in the past, and we're not doing it now. So, in this new extended session of the Catalan question which is to bring us back to the left abertzale, we ratify what we have said on other occasions: the defence of dialogue, agreement, plurality and law. The law too, Mrs. Iriarte. And today we voice once again what our Catalan comrades have been calling for in Catalonia, because we think it has been the clearest speech in favour of the solution. Our amendment reflects the proposals made by our colleagues at the last session of Parliament before Puigdemont forced the Spanish Government to dissolve it. The last attempt of the Miquel Iceta group, which was thrown into the trash and which I assume will also be ignored by a majority of this House. We regret that the Government of Catalonia and a majority of Parliament have abandoned their responsibilities in the management of the self-government of that community, ignoring the plurality of their society and the legality from which their authority derived, which has led to the annulment of the autonomy model agreed four decades ago without replacing it with any other agreement. We hope that the elections of 21 December, within the existing legal framework, will enable the institutions to manage self-government, so that the legitimate representation of Catalan citizens will determine their future peacefully, democratically and legally, recognizing the validity of the Statute and the Constitution. We demand that from these elections a new time of dialogue and negotiation be opened between all the Catalan political formations, without vetoes or exclusions, as well as the normalization of relations between the Generalitat and the Government, through the existing bilateral mechanisms, in a process of distension and descalation of the existing political conflict. We urge all political forces to participate in the indispensable process of federal reform of the Constitution that recognizes the various realities that coexist in the common project of Spain and its singularities, without prejudice to the fact that, in the meantime, concrete measures are agreed for Catalonia. We believe that our proposal for political solutions is so because we understand that it is true that there is a political conflict in Catalonia, and what we propose are exits for the short term and for the long term. And yes, the Socialists are convinced that a reform of the Constitution that recognizes the various realities that coexist in Spain must also serve Catalonia. Yesterday it was true that he walked; with too many absences, but he walked. We have managed to involve the People's Party, which has always been blindfolded by a reality widely demanded by Catalan society, and we will not give up on the participation of those who are now absent. While this is happening, we ask this House not to stop looking at the citizens we all represent, a citizenship that is being served today and that has in those of us who sit in these seats politicians who every week we come to agreements here on health, on education, on employment, on economic progress, on the sharing of resources and protection for those who have less. That is the development of self-government that we want to strengthen. Our situation, fortunately, is very different from Catalan, and that has to be a flow to preserve. Socialists proudly assume our share of responsibility for this to be so. There is nothing to envy the Catalan situation, Mrs Iriarte. Nothing. And I'm gonna finish. You were talking about a quote from George III; I'm going to put myself on a much more recent date, on a quote from a convinced Catalan nationalist, who returned from exile to take over the self-government so expensively reconquered. In a bitter letter by the drift that his heirs took in the government, in April of 81, Josep Tarradellas – as you can see, much more recent than George III – said goodbye with a reflection: "Our country is too small for him to despise any of his children, and big enough for us all to have." That is the message we want to send to Euskadi and Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u8	Good morning, everyone. For the past year, we have had different opportunities of explaining our positions in this Chamber of Catalonia, between decision, events (which are very severe in recent times), conclusions, resolutions, imprisonment, the reply of the State, the assault of the State, political assault, and the judicial attack of the State. And what has been brought here today is right, of course, with respect to Hadadcaunia, but at the same time we are talking about a single single single single-minute plune, the 27th of October, why, at the same time, there happened many things, the proclamations in a chamber, and in another, the application of that article 155. That's where we see the impact of both legitimities go on the same afternoon. Hence the correction which we have set before us does not wish to establish its thoughts in this static photograph, but in the whole course of its development. And therefore we think, as we receive in this rectification, that, besides our examination directly done, we explain our position to the future. Hence we say that we respect and assist Parlament, the Parliament of Catalonia, all the decisions which he has made about his sovereignty and a process which may be constitutionalist or constructor. Why should there be a discussion about what was going on, what was voted and whatever it was? I am not going to enter this, but to make a political reading, because there were some decisions made about the constitutional process, or about the judge; but in the presence of those decisions which the Parliament has made before this time, we first discover our respect, our support, and our assistance. The second question is, consequently, in another chamber, 155. On account of the article, the state was exploited... I have called the elections, and I am responsible for all that... Well, that puts another photo on it, and we think that the whole democratic legality of the institution of Catalonia is demoralized by this strategy. political independence, democratic independence. It's not just an intervention of Catalonia, it's a democracy itself. But, it seems, as time went by, it is obvious that there are no violent reactions or violent vibrations, and that the thing is preserved in the same way, and the state is still more proud of it, and this will follow. And there's a date set, and it's the day of election. And I think that this election day is going to take a picture again, and that photo will be what we hope for, at least, if a picture is in a very clear sense, in the region of Catalan, something is extended, whether it is independent or not, it is the right of Katalunia and the men in it. And that takes its place, takes its place, will work for one or the other at a time, but it's either 75 or 80% that's clean. So even in those elections, that'll be counted... each will have its own hues to determine how to present himself at the time of election. The question is: Has the Spanish democracy attained this minimum of maturity? Another plenoe asked the same question. Political maturity, democratic maturity... Is it possible to modernize? Why, in many other places, the answer given to similar questions is the solution of giving a word to the people or to the people, and the word brings a decision, and the decisions must be respected. And why is the state blind in front of this reality? I think that we have to speak clearly, why what has happened in Catalonia, what is happening, and what will happen, even in the near future, and what may happen in any other parliament, even here, I think, we must see here at least that there is no solution of it, unless the reality of the nation has the same political rights. Why, when conversation is said, but within the law, whether it be done, or even confessing it, it means de facto, if it is necessary to speak only within the legality of the present law, that you are confessing a superiority over you, the sovereignty of Spain. So, how does that change? How does it change? And that's what happened in Catalonia. And what we saw in this plune was this: By the power of democratic liberty, the political representation of Catalonia is said to be those of a democratic principle; if the other part will not speak to us, we must create a law of our own, leaving our political will. So, we often talk, we talk more than other symmetrical people, but this one-sidedness or strategy of difference, well one-sided, one-sided strategy... Of course, the one on the opposite side must have another in front of the table, which demands mutual respect. And respect means equality, which is not confessed. And there won't be a fruitful and lasting political solution if you don't respect it. Therefore, in our proposition, we speak of the decisions taken, even if we look to the future, which will be decided in a very short time, in the legislature of Catalonia. And as to the attitude which this 155 supposes to be an anti-democratic, it seems to us to be absolutely critical, and with all its pride, the Poptular intends to establish the proposition of these new rules of democracy. That is to say, if the elections were to win again, those who are betting on independence, or the right to decide, back to 155, in order to continue this process of independence. Unacceptable! Unacceptable! And the third point, again, is Catalonia, and no one else, who has the power to determine their collective future. That they are, and that, in order to draw this future, they have a full right to decide, and that, in order to make it possible, they will, of course, have to negotiate with one, with some of the few. But in origin, the principle of equality, the relation of equals, is based on respect, or there is no future. That's why that's the reason for our full correction. He went in and kept all he had to keep, in this Parlament of Catalonia, the things that were decided, and even those which were not decided. But this was a political activity, and we have already said before now that we think it necessary to establish political intercourse, political life, and free attachment, not in forced union. And to be able to do this again: or whether we have rules to be able to act equal, or conversation will have no long course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u9	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr Martínnez Hiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u10	Good morning, congressmen. Today we are attending a debate in which, as Blade Runner's replicator said in his day, we see things that no one would believe, but that are really going to happen. Today we see parties that have seen a unilateral declaration of independence, and we see parties that deny that there has been a unilateral declaration of independence, and for one thing and another they have not had to go beyond Orion. Today we see that it doesn't matter whether or not they have seen that unilateral declaration. Some parties in this House will argue with each other as if there was no tomorrow, and today we see parties that put themselves on the profile trusting and wishing with all their heart that all this would be lost in time as tears in the rain, and that people quickly forget the barbarities of the People's Party government that they have supported. However, beyond the fact that today there will be no surprise either, beyond the fact that everyone, more or less, already knows in advance what is going to happen in this debate, beyond the fact that we are going to talk about Catalonia again for the third or fourth time in recent months, the issue in question is at least a joke. I believe that today in this Parliament we are going to be the only party that is not going to use anything, anything, to justify its political position. And we're not doing it because we don't have our position. We are not going to do this because today, in this debate, it does not resolve anything to use any argument. That does not mean that we are going to demonstrate our principles, our democratic principles and the principles of human rights. Democratic and human rights principles not only to defend that another way of dealing with the situation in Catalonia was possible and necessary, but to be able to offer solutions today and tomorrow, to try to bring with all humility a granite of sand to solve problems and tensions, and not to increase them yet. And I say that with all humility because I believe that all political forces have made mistakes in this that has happened ( mine too, eh!)). And don't get me wrong, I'm not defending any kind of equidistance, nor am I putting everyone in the same bag, for nothing, and you can see it throughout this intervention. It's just being honest, being honest. Today, it's about talking to the citizenry, Basque citizenship and everything, not just part of it, and talking like she would, saying what an immense majority would say. And to do so because we really feel what a majority of Basques and Basques feel, regardless of what they think or not about independence, the right to decide or 155. Today we are going to discuss Catalonia again because some want to fish in a turbulent river, and this debate is not likely to produce a single agreement. And it's sad, because believe me, some of us have tried to make it really easy. We have made an amendment by putting objective facts on the table, most of which are referred to international organizations and observers. But that today, in this debate where we all know in advance what is being sought, does not suffice, seems to be the same. We have been told of our amendment on the part of some people that it is very state-owned. I don't know if this is for laughing or crying. Talking about human rights, talking about democratic principles, talking about dialogue, about agreed solutions, about the opinion of Amnesty International or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, is a "very state" concept. But you know what I tell you? That what we did today in Elkarrekin We are convinced that it is precisely what any Basque citizen would do. What has felt a plural majority of Basques and Basques is grief and anger. Too bad and angry to see how no one stopped a hellish spiral that only led to a useless train crash. It is a shame and anger to see that fundamental human rights and democratic principles have been violated. And that is why our amendment does something as simple as a chronological review, quite impartial by the way, and it values it as it has been valued by neutral and objective bodies, valued as most Basques and Basques value it. And now I'm going to go over it. On 1 October, an injuring (sirious in every way), police action criticized by Human Rights Watch, the Council of Europe or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Is it really not in the interest of this Parliament to denounce what happened on 1 October? Will the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in view of what human rights organizations and bodies have said, really deny this? I'm really asking, I mean, I'd like an answer. The imprisonments of Sánchez, Cuixart, ex-consellers of the Government and the Bureau of Parliament, who, fortunately, have been able to go out on bail; a Prosecutor's Office acting in the service of a political party and not in favor of law and law; orders that dictate unconditional preventive prisons by jumping all jurisprudence; orders that build criminal types such as rebellion or sedition, impossible. Is it really difficult for the PNV that this Parliament should denounce, as it has done, without going further, Amnesty International, a lawsuit without guarantees, disproportionate and excessive? Isn't this relevant? Is it not relevant for this to appear when it comes out of this Parliament today? Is the Socialist Party really going to look the other way when the separation of powers and the foundations of a rule of law have been blown up? The application of Article 155. Did they charge themselves with self-government in Catalonia? Yeah. Have they put on a democratically elected government and replaced it with one that has not been voted for by Catalans and Catalans? Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, is it true that the Basque Parliament has no interest in denouncing this barbarity and that this is reflected in a compromise amendment? Is it true that the Basque Parliament has no interest in adding its voice to that of the Sindic (the Catalan Ararteko), denouncing that this violates the fundamental right to political participation of Catalan citizens? The famous unilateral declaration of independence. Look, I'm not going in if there was it or not. We had a virtually surreal debate between Mr Erkoreka and Mrs Iriarte last week. But we are proposing something as simple as supporting what Mr Daan Everts, an impartial international observer, said that on 1 October there was no referendum with guarantees. Is it not worth pointing out something as simple as saying that on the basis of this civic mobilization of October 1 (massive yes, very massive, but not a referendum) nothing can be proclaimed? And an invitation to a sincere dialogue, to seek political solutions that allow for an agreed and legal citizen consultation; to invite elections on 21 December without threats and with all guarantees. Is it true that this Parliament has no interest in calling for dialogue, calling for citizen participation, calling for citizens to be able to express themselves without threats and guarantees? Well, these common sense issues seem to have no room today, because everything is going to turn around and everything is going around whether there was a declaration of independence or not. Today they are going to try to slip these ambiguities to drain the lump: one day it is said that there was no DUI, and today it is supported what the Catalan Parliament decided, whatever it was. Honestly, I think the important thing is something else. What is important today is to point out that there are unacceptable things that should never have happened and should never be repeated. And today from this House it is likely that nothing comes out, more than speeches in front of our respective galleries. Today for Elkarrekin We have the important thing, on the other hand, that things cannot be done in any way; that if for a moment we stop looking at Catalonia to look at our country, at Euskadi, we have a series of very clear learnings: that the right to decide is an unspeakable democratic principle; that one cannot separate to decide to live together and that when these things are separated they do not work; that it is possible to decide and do so without social fractures, but that it implies doing so legally and in a pact, and that they are not worth the unilateral ways; and that to decide without social fracture the keys are clear questions, democratic guarantees for all parties, and qualified or strengthened majorities to make any decision (not worth half more than one). And now I'm also going to make an even closer appointment, I'm going to quote Ada Colau, who said, "I have clear where to be: involved in the construction of new scenarios of self-government that give us more democracy and not less, and that empathy serves us as the best tool for building consensus." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u11	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours. SEMPER PASCUAL jaunak: Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. I must confess to you, Mrs Iriarte, that until this very morning I thought that you were going to withdraw the non-legislative proposal that you registered in this House and that today is the subject of debate, because many things have happened since you introduced it, and we have known and have also had remarkably interesting – or interestingly remarkable – information since you introduced it, which changes the political scene and therefore also alters political positions. Or it should be, unless someone adheres to a political position regardless of what is going on around it and regardless of whether reality disowns him. I thought I was going to withdraw it, first because no one in the wide world – it is true that except, in an exotic way, the General Councils of Gipuzkoa, with the support of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu – but no one in the wide world, and therefore not in Europe, has recognized this supposed independent republic of Catalonia. No one, no one has recognized the Republic of Catalonia. And it also seems reasonable, because there can be no pronouncement; it is exotic that pronouncement on what does not exist in the legal system, among other things. I also thought that I would withdraw it because if the continuing non-compliance, the repeated non-compliance with any rule (the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy), the non-compliance with the own reports of the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia, if all this were not enough too, the repeated non-compliance with all these rules (the Constitution, the Statute, the reports of the Parliament of Catalonia) by the independenceists there, if not enough, the social effects, the political and economic effects of all this adventure and all this misunderstanding in which the Catalans have embarked the independenceists in Catalonia have been terrible effects. Terrible not for politicians, who, what you want me to say, I care very little about, but for the citizens. They are terrible effects, social, economic and political, for the citizens, who are ultimately being harmed by this adventure and this disintegration. It is therefore also dissatisfied that this Parliament, this House, should vote in favour of something that is generating a controversy and a social confrontation that has been unprecedented in the recent history of Catalonia. A confrontation and an unprecedented political distancing also in the recent history of Catalonia, and an economic and social damage to people, to people, mainly in Catalonia. It is a dislate to expect this Parliament to embrace such an adventure and such a dislate. Because, it is true, and I was telling him at first, today we have much more information, and today we know that the separatist politicians in Catalonia were prepared to sink the economy, they were prepared to divide society, but they were not prepared for independence. This is the raw reality facing politics in Catalonia and which, from our point of view, we cannot ignore in this House. They were prepared to sink the economy, and they have proved it: 2,400 Catalan companies have changed their registered office, 2,400 companies in Catalonia, with what that means and with the risk and threat to the Catalan economy, and therefore to the citizens, which that represents. About a thousand companies have already changed their tax domicile, leaving Catalonia to other regions and to other autonomous communities of Spain, which means for tax collection for Catalonia, which means for social policies, which means for education, for health, which means for the well-being of citizens. Nearly a thousand companies have moved their tax offices out of Catalonia. The economy is resentful, it is true: more than 40% of hotel reservations (I am probably happy with the CUP, among others, and probably the mayor of Barcelona, but this will certainly not be happy with the Catalan economy and the Barcelona economy) have already renounced those reservations. They have left Catalonia Planeta, Natural Gas, Caixabank, Sabadell, Abertis, Catalana de Occidente, Cellnex, Applus, eDreams Odigeo, Bimbo, Codorniu, Aguas de Barcelona, Torraspapel... among others. Only the first thirteen contributions that changed their domicile have a joint capitalisation of €84 billion. Is anyone capable of venturing what this means, not only for the Catalan economy, but for the family economies of the Catalans, this adventure that you are asking us to support in this Parliament today? He also said that, it is true, they were prepared to divide society, and there is nothing more to see, since the beginning of all this misconception, the progressive deterioration of coexistence in Catalonia. It will be possible to make up, it will be possible to justify it in any way and it will be possible to wave any flag to justify the confrontation between the citizens, but it is dramatic to check and suffer, together with the Catalans, the deterioration of social and political coexistence in Catalonia. This is what we are being caught up in and what these separatist adventures are about. And he also told them that they were not prepared for independence. Obviously, from a legal point of view, it does not admit any kind of discussion that was a dislate and that it was impossible to materialize, but it is that we already know, at the height of the misconception, that we are having the opportunity to listen over these weeks to prebosses, to leaders, to impulses of this whole secessionist process, to reciprocate, to turn back and, without blush, to recognize things like the following. Clara Ponsatí, the former Culture Advisor, said last weekend "We weren't prepared enough for independence." Toni Comín, also former advisor: "Perhaps he insisted too much on those things that sounded better, because so you had the most cohesive people" (La Vanguardia, two days ago). Joan Tardá, in El Periódico de Catalunya, two days ago: "Cataluña is not yet independent because there has not been a majority of Catalans who would have wanted it". Carles Campuzano: "It takes more time to strengthen the social majority", also in The Journal of Catalonia these days. But in whose hands are the Catalans? Whose hands have the Catalans been in? But where did they board, where did they take Catalan society? Where have politics, coexistence, the economy, these irresponsible ones, who are able to go out to a rostrum and defend a supposed happy archadia, and to the two days say that no, that it was a lie everything, that it is going backwards, that it was not prepared, that there is no social majority, that it does not have the resources or the structure sufficient to do so, and that, moreover, judicial and legally is an impossible one, and that it divides society? So, in fact, they don't even add up to half, they don't even add up to half the electorate in Catalonia. It's really disturbing. And it is truly disturbing in the first place for those who suffer them, those who suffer these irresponsible people, who are the citizens of Catalonia. It is disturbing for all the Spaniards, who obviously do not witness this vodka in Catalonia: we are concerned about what happens to any citizen anywhere in the world, and obviously also in our national territory. And it is truly disturbing also for Basques, because there are those who want us to embark on a similar path in Basque too, there are those who want us to copy these things from Catalonia (of course, Bildu is very interested, because the worse, the better, the more tension there is and the more confrontation there is, the better). It is disturbing that at the Gipuzkoa General Councils the Basque Nationalist Party supports what it will not support today (I am glad that it rectifies in the Basque Parliament). It is disturbing that anyone wants to laugh at these independenceists and irresponsibles. Therefore, the restoration of legality through the application of Article 155, which has garnered broad political support, is an absolutely undeniable relief in Catalonia. The application of the 155, beyond certain mantras and certain interests for projecting a real image, which is not what the application has meant, has been to stop this misconception and call autonomous elections. Others, by the way, Mr. Egibar, tried otherwise. Ask Mr. Lehendakari. He tried to do it another way, and it wasn't possible. Many others tried to hold the elections in Catalonia at the initiative of the President of the Generalitat himself, and it was not possible. I insist, you ask Mr Lehendakari. And the responsibility of any politician who is state-sized and who does not want to see this deterioration of coexistence, this deterioration of the economy and this unbearable deterioration of the institutions in Catalonia because of the responsibility of the separatists, must intervene. And our rule of law has resources when someone inflicts such damage on society. And it has done so through the application of a constitutional remedy such as Article 155, I insist, with broad political support. Not only supported, Mr Egibar, by the People's Party, but also by the Socialist Party, a partner of its government in the Basque Government, by the contribution also of Citizens, by the contribution of Foro Asturias, by the contribution of other political formations as well. And today the reality is that Catalonia sees the future, the immediate, electoral and democratic, with the convening of autonomous elections..., and we have no doubt about it, but, if not, we will all have to row in favour of politicians in Catalonia once and for all starting to work to solve the real problems of the citizens and not to create new problems for them, which is what has happened with all this nonsense. And I'm done, Madam President. We must attend with some concern, and I say this with complete honesty..., we must attend with concern to what has happened in Catalonia, but concern to try to avoid it and to ensure that that wall of containment that we believe exists in Euskadi in the face of the contagion is not overcome. We cannot, we have no right to embark any society, nor the Basque, of course the Catalan and the Spanish, on such drifts that the only thing they cause is the impoverishment of the population and the suffering of the weakest. Because in the end, the ones who suffer the most are the weakest. When the economy suffers, when politicians are as irresponsible as the leaders in Catalonia are, those who suffer the most are the families, and within the weakest families. The worst, the worst of all is that it is the people, it is the citizens who gather the winds of these irresponsible storms. In Euskadi there is a wall of containment that some want to jump, and if they are able to continue seducing, perhaps, by that of forality in Gipuzkoa, they get it. Let us try that this does not move to the whole of Euskadi, that we do not copy the worst of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Madam Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u13	Thank you, Mrs. President. Zurekin hasita, Semper jauna, for what they were not prepared for in Catalonia was for the unjust and anti-democratic application of 155, which they have done by jumping their own law. And if it wasn't so terrible what they're doing, it would almost make me laugh to hear your party talk about defending legality. His party, the PP, which yesterday became the first party in the entire state to be formally prosecuted in a criminal case. The first one. You will remember that the illegalizations of the Basque parties were never for reasons other than special or political causes, but in a criminal case the PP is prosecuted, by cover-up, among other serious crimes. Not to mention all his treasurers, hundreds of charges, etc., etc. Which almost makes me laugh, if it wasn't so serious what you're telling me. Mr. Pastor, you do not accept vetoes or exclusions, but apply 155. It is an old technique to blame the victim as you do, pointing to the legitimate authorities of Catalonia as responsible for 155. But make no mistake: 155 applies it to you. You voted for it to be applied, for it to be applied in such a wild way, and you voted for it in the Senate along with Citizens and the People's Party, and I understand that you have serious problems getting some of your militants to understand. And you tell me about some mayors of Catalonia, but I'm going to tell you about other mayors of Catalonia. For example, Jordi Ballart, mayor of Terrassa, the third largest city in Catalonia, who, as you know, has broken his PSC card and resigned. And it has not been the only one, because they are clear that they cannot defend such an outrage before their voters, Mr Pastor. Martínez jauna, what's worrying is that he's worried about legality, but he's worried about Spanish legality. Begira, we're sick of this. Erbakitzeko skubidea bai esaten duzue, bai batzuetan esaten duzue éta, gero, eskubide hori gauzatzeko unan, bueno ikusi egin beharko dugu, second nola... And now that you have the opportunity to take a clear stand again, then, you tell us about the guarantees of October 1st, the referendum agreed... But do you want to tell me that you have an agreement with whom, Mr. Martinez? Didn't you hear Mr. Semper? Will you be agreed with Mr. Rajoy? Will you be agreed with Mr. Rivera? Didn't you hear Mr. Pastor? Will it be with Mr. Sánchez, will it be with Alfonso Guerra, will it be with Felipe González... Is that what you're talking about? Who do you want to make a deal with? Who do you want to make a deal with? Then do not bind us, because then you have applied your particular 155, removing from your office the secretary general of Catalonia, Dante Fachin (yes, gentlemen of Podemos, yes). So, finally, things get a little blurry in your performance. Mr. Egiebar, you said two things happened on the 27th of October: Proclamation and article 155. You said them. For the rest, I can't believe it if I hear you. it would be a pity that this parliament did not acknowledge the claim you spoke of, this proclamation of the independent republic of Catalonia. Because look, you'll say whatever you want, but it happened. Otherwise, why is half the government of Catalonia in prison? Otherwise, why half of Catalonia government in exile? Otherwise, why did the Foreign Office, for instance, have made a note that he did not admit the new republic? Or when Quai d'Orsay made another communication, saying that he did not accept the new established republic? What happened? Why did we have these headlines the next day? The first says, "Catagna descendencia," the second, more complicatedly, "Un Parlament fracrated," de la Independencia y Rajoy responde conciones, patatin and patatán." And the third, the New: "Cataunia, independent republic." The world saw this, and I did not enter many of the newspapers in the other world, because I was not hand to hand, and because the Basque people had well reflected it. Therefore it seems to me a pity that this proclamation may not be made in the terms mentioned today, because you have mentioned it yourself. I'd like to ask you, in front of Mr. Turull and Mr Sánchez, before those who are now in prison, when you said that you wanted the first to make the claim of the Republic of Catalonia to be this parliamentary law, which time, or perhaps, at this moment, is precisely the moment when this town needs the protection of the Basque Country. I believe, really, Mr. Egibar, that you were speaking of this moment, and I don't know why it was so difficult to say that after all that you get, what happened in 26th was the claim of the independent republic of Catalonia. Is that so hard to say? All the rest, the champagne, the help... The rest of it can be agreed on the firm accusation of article 155, even when it can bring it to the Basque Country. But is it so difficult to say that at the present day this Chamber was made the proclamation of an independent republic in Catalonia? The Basque People, they say, are not so difficult.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u15	Good. From the personal respect that you know I have you, Mrs Iriarte, I want to tell you that you have justified your intervention with a very entertaining historical journey, it is true, but false, that you do not resist the slightest scientific rigour, as if it were some sort of Petete Fat Book. Your examples, which have put a few, caught by the hair, certainly would not serve you to defend a doctoral thesis on history without provoking the hilarity of the court. However, you have forgotten to say that this so-called process has been based for years on three premises that have become three lies. Three basic premises: that it was absolutely feasible, the first; that it was to have immediate international recognition, the second; and that the economic cost was to be zero. The three have proved to be an absolute falsehood, and have been one of the causes of the failure of this process. It would be good if you at least recognized that you've done things a little wrong. A little bad. But, finally, jokes aside, because the issue is serious, what you cannot claim – forgive me for telling you, but I sincerely believe it – is that this Parliament recognizes what no country in the world (no country in the world) has done. And you know perfectly well that you can say that you're independent or that you're from pictures, but if you don't recognize it no one does that for nothing. And that's the situation in which that ghostly Catalan republic is in the legal limbo and the political limbo. And it really does not seem to me very serious that this Parliament has to recognise a legal limbo, or a very legitimate wish, but that it has not gone beyond that on the part of the Catalan Parliament. And in any case, Mrs Iriarte, I deeply respect your ideology, like that of everyone else in this House, and your way of thinking, but of course you cannot pretend that we assume as our own what is your way of thinking, yours, yours, but not ours. Because, finally, of attempts at political and ideological imposition, unfortunately, we know too much in Euskadi. And, of course, we are not willing to repeat that phase of history that has fortunately already passed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u17	It's true what we told Turull and the rest of them in their time, and it will be. You know, when I spoke of political proclamation, why, even before this time, we have spoken of this, and in different sessions of Catalonia there have been proclamations that were less frequent than those of Anarchabats, some of whom might have been co-opers, but we all know what we're talking about. That's why I think our proposal is more appropriate to the position of what happened in Katalunia and what happened in Catalonia. At least we think so honestly. And I have mentioned it before: for us, Puigdemont is the President of Generality. It's not Rajoy. We know what he's doing. And also the decisions made by the great councils of Gipulia have been mentioned. In the same way, Puigdemont, as I have said, interrupts the statement as it was in the Parliament of Catalonia. The grand council offers a tracking, a support, a support to the solutions made by the institution of Catalonia. Well, that's what we're doing. I've mentioned it before, and I've seen the Popular Party play that way too, and well, all the cacamidads are here, and poverty and all the rest... Well, you see how the argument is mounted, and it will be seen, looking back to the future, when it is reviewed that Estado de las autonomouss, all the problems of Catalonia are derived, that is to say, that those jurisdictions which Catalonia has possessed are not properly used, either in education, in language, or in communications, and again, with the intention of re-establishing it, if they open it, the Constitution's innovation or change. The Socialists will have to measure the purpose of a reality like this. I used to say in Basque, and on some previous occasion I have also repeated, that when we are appealing to dialogue and understanding, and when we say dialogue within the law, if there is no or if there is no equal conditions of political rights of the different national realities, there is no solution. There's no solution. Which is a basic premise of mutual, reciprocal respect. That the appeal to dialogue within de facto legality implies admitting the supremacy of one sovereignty over the other. How do you alter that? How do you respond to a state that doesn't want to maneuver in the direction of respect? What choice do you have? For there is nothing else that, from the democratic principle and from the respect for the democratic will expressed by the citizenry in this case of Catalonia, or also of Euskadi, if you do not have an interlocutor, you have to come to light a new legality. And there was the shock! And that in the first instance political and electorally will be clarified on December 21, but the problem is on the table, mahai henean dago. That's why I wasn't going to be around... I don't know, it has been said that after this point of the legislature has been finished, by the vote, nothing will come out; Eta lehenengo scores bucket bad, hau bi hizkuntzatan: "Eusko Legebiltzarrak Parliament -ak passes den urriaren 27ko bilkuran Kataluniaren burujabetasuna eta prozedura eratzai buruz hartutako erabakiak errespetatzen eta laguntzen ditu. The Basque Parliament respects and accompanies the resolutions on the sovereignty of Catalonia and the constituent process adopted by Parliament at its meeting on 27 October. "The Basque Parliament rejects how many exceptional measures of intervention that, under article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, have been adopted by the Government of the State, amputating the institutional representation of Catalonia and its capacity for self-government, making it a charter granted instead of a right inherent in the Catalan nation." Finally, "the Basque Parliament states that it is exclusively up to Catalan society and its legitimate institutional representation to determine its future, taking account of exclusively peaceful and democratic channels". This is our position, and that is what we have already explained to our comrades in Catalonia. And, really, they're really grateful for our support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u19	Well, Iriarte andrea, if your only argument to refute what I have put forward for ten minutes is to talk about internal issues of my party, of course there are few arguments left. And, of course, do not get involved in matters of another party, because if we enter those of yours you will surely lose. So let's not get into any other party issues. And, on the other hand, do not doubt our bet on the right to decide, do not doubt that we have been clear in our bet on the right to decide, always, where we put it. But we have our way of putting it, which is equally legitimate, because it is not patrimonializable. We have our option, which is the agreed referendums. You have a reference, which is Kosovo, which are blue helmets. We have a reference, which is Quebec, which are agreed referendums, which is to try to negotiate, which is to try to reach agreements with a state in order to take forward the freely expressed democratic will of citizens. That is what we are proposing, and that is an equally legitimate political project. Just as the political and social transformation of the State is an equal and legitimate political project, so is the democratic transformation of the State a legitimate political project. And that's our political project. But you have built a fantasy, you have built an imaginary and a pose for your political project, which involves the denial of political and social transformation, because only through that denial can you justify your political project, which for many years has claimed an equally legitimate option, which is independence, but which has not materialized either. Therefore, I do not think we can compare or give lessons in political effectiveness either, because, after all, here the issue... And, if we are going to what the situation in Basquedi is right now, it is that today in Basquedi, if we take the Euskobarometer in hand, look, there are almost twice as many people who prefer a territorial status different from the current one; today in Basquedi the status with the most citizen adherence is that of federalism; today in Basquedi the people we opt for formulas of co-oberanism are twice as much as those who want independence; today in Basquedi more than 60% of the citizenship wants to be consulted on the territorial status. But all of this must be responded to, and an answer must be offered that is not frustrating and that provides the means to channel this democratic will. We've been very clear. On the one hand, we propose a new statute that maximizes the potential of the current legal framework, and on the other hand, simultaneously and in parallel, a pact of clarity to give effect to the right of citizens to decide territorial status, and also without any risk of social fracture. That's our choice. I would like to know what your choice is, put on paper and marked on targets, point by point. And then, finally, I will talk to Mr Semper, who has made a small reference to the economy, right?, to the Catalan economy. And yes, I would like to respond that what scares companies and destroys jobs, in Catalonia, in Euskadi, in Spain, and scientifically contrasted, is their corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours. JANUARY WEEK Jaunak: Thank you. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Iriarte, I have the feeling that you are not only unable to assume the past and unable to project a future, but you are also dislocated, deeply dislocated in the present. I think you're going to fail today, and this is good news. They will fail because this Parliament will not commit this absurdity of recognizing the Republic of Catalonia. It's a Bildu failure that we're all going to benefit from, and it's good news, because, hey, here (I think, we believe) we're trying to build bridges between different, right?; we are trying to build an ever stronger coexistence among all; we are trying to resolve differences and different feelings of belonging, different sensitivities, in an orderly way, in a civilized way, without breaking the coexistence, which is precisely what you have tried throughout your entire political career. It's diametrically the opposite. It has never been expected to the left abertzale, or it has been expected to them, but it has never been possible and has never been feasible in the past, to attend to that call to defend, listen, for plural societies are equipped with tools to live together, but those tools can never be violent. And in spite of you we are moving forward, and in spite of the immense damage you have caused in this society we are moving forward, and today the future of Euskadi is infinitely better. Because in the end your model of coexistence is that, the one who doesn't think like you, out of town, and this model, listen, fortunately, is being banished more and more roundly from Euskadi. So moral lessons, Mrs. Iriarte, I can't accept you. And Mr. Egibar said that he was observing in a thorough manner how the argument is being put together, around what he was saying, poverty and so on. No, I've just mounted..., I haven't mounted any arguments I've tried to share a description of reality that, on the other hand, I think is objective. The objective data of impoverishment of the Catalan economy, derived from the fear it is causing, which has caused all this disintegration in Catalonia itself, are objective data. That 2,400 companies (to be repeated, 2,400 companies) have changed their registered office is not an argument, it is the reality of what is happening. That, of those 2,400, nearly 1,000 have already changed their tax domicile, and therefore that this could cause serious damage to the Catalan economy and collection, is therefore an objective reality. That political uncertainty is carried out very badly, extraordinarily badly, with economic stability and with business confidence is also an objective reality, and this is what is causing all this in Catalonia. That political coexistence in Catalonia has deteriorated in a way... in Catalonia, it has deteriorated in a remarkable way in recent months and years I think it is an objective fact too. That the very coexistence of citizens, that the Catalan society itself has been strained to unsuspected levels, I think this is also an objective reality, that I am not inventing myself, nor is it setting up an argument. It is to describe a situation to point out that it is very bad what is happening in Catalonia, said in an absolutely flat way. And in the end, listen, there is also a reality that surpasses us all, and it is the European reality. Europe was created to break down borders, after World War II, so that this would not happen to us again. In fact, borders today have no virtuality in Europe. This is a reality that is moving forward and to which we not only have to adapt, but, of course, we want to adapt, and it is a positive reality. And it is a positive reality, I insist, not only for political parties or politicians (everyone who thinks so), but it is an objective reality for citizens, and it is something positive. And here's what it's about is that we have to build something together. We have no choice but to throw anyone who doesn't think the same way out of town. We must be able to build something together in this society, which, like all modern societies, is a complex society. Each one is from his father and his mother, in which there are people who come from a political tradition, others who come from another... in which there are people who think a little bit more like that and others a little bit more like it..., but we live in the same space, which is called Euskadi. And we have to be able to articulate the mechanisms of coexistence that allow us to strengthen that coexistence, but not to strain it, not to break it, not to impoverish us. And that's where we should be and what, of course, we are. And we have tools, as I said before, to live together, so that those of us who are different have a legal and legal framework that does not confer benefits on one because of being a nationalist to the detriment of another who is not, or the other way around. And we have to be able to articulate and strengthen coexistence on the basis of solid institutions, such as this, such as the Basque Parliament, such as the parliaments or general councils, which give confidence to citizens and which are upbuilding institutions, for the decisions they make and for the seriousness and rigour with which they make and develop their political activity. Not like the Parliament of Catalonia, which only generates uncertainty and has only generated impoverishment. And this is our offer and this is the position of the People's Party in Euskadi. Offer to understanding, to coexistence and to build a future together among different, respecting the legal frameworks of which we have been endowed, and that if you do not like, Mr Egibar, there is a solution: you change. But as long as they don't change, we all respect them. See if you for being a nationalist won't have to respect the law! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. Irrea Okineña's original text of the motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the league 18; the contrary, 28, white, 0; the abstainments, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u22	So, not allowed original text. Next up, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists in the group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; opponents, 56; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u23	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Eucian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 46; contraries, 18, white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u24	So the full correction has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspilla Group, about early attention. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Lady Garrido, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. After the intervention of early attention to the Chief Department, we saw it convenient to introduce the motion on this subject, and today we will discuss this motive. As we all know, the 13/2016 Decree, the 2nd of February, regulates early attention, and in this decree the measures to be given in different quarters, namely, in health, in education, and in social services. Instead of establishing a coordinated pattern, a reflection opened 10 years ago, and according to this, it was obvious that it was necessary to provide integrated attention. I mentioned that we had the right to do this motion, and today we will discuss it. First of all, I shall mention that we have come to agree with this subject, and shall hereafter mention what are the points agreed on. But, first, I thank them for the efforts of all the groups, for at last it is possible to agree and come to an agreement with this subject, and I think it is remarkable and important. Decree 13/2016 of 2 February 2016 on the comprehensive intervention of Early Care of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which seeks to regulate and establish a regulatory framework that collects in a coordinated way all the actions that are given in the early care of children suffering from disorders, and all the interventions, as I say, in children between zero and six years, with the aim of giving and providing to children between this age a coordinated, integral and multidisciplinary care. I said the other day throughout the interpellation that child development is something dynamic, it is a process in which different functions are acquired, and those early years are very important, because they acquire the functions that have to do with postural control, autonomy in displacement, communication, verbal language and social interaction. And that in this dynamic process of acquiring all these functions in child development interact different factors, and that any alteration in these elements is likely to cause a developmental disorder. These changes, of course, can occur at any stage of that development, and therefore we are all aware of the magnitude and significance of that problem. This was the reason why, as early as 2016, a reflection took place in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in order to establish coordinated actions by all the institutions involved (the Basque Government and the three deputies above all), seeing that there was a certain lack of coordination and that the scope of action of each of them was also not exactly the same. After this process of reflection, in 2012 there is a draft decree, but at that time by several institutions, of two particular deputies – not governed at that time by the Basque Nationalist Party; governed by the People's Party and EH Bildu – they expressed their suspicions about this draft, because they understood that the competences of the three areas that interact in the provision of services, programmes, specific actions to children between zero and six years were not clearly defined. And therefore they expressed their suspicions before the decree as it was written. In 2016, the decree was finally adopted with the set of services, programmes and actions envisaged in the area of early care to cover disorders in the development of children between zero and six years. Scientific evidence clearly shows the importance of acting in these early ages, to alleviate such disorders as far as possible, or even in some cases also to prevent them in an absolute way. In our view – and so we have also denounced it and made it clear in other institutional areas – following the implementation of this decree there have been certain shortcomings, such as delays in assessments, bottlenecks in waiting lists for access to services, a decrease in the intensity of the treatments prescribed by the EVAT, and the assumption of responsibilities in the specific areas of health, education and social services. It is true that, as the adviser also stated in the answer to the question, all that has to do with funding is being studied, and we therefore also hope that, sooner rather than later, that stable funding framework which we were calling for in the second point of the motion will be established, which will enable us to know exactly what funding or what expenditure corresponds to each of the three areas of competence which intervene or interact in the care of these children. With this initiative we have tried to remedy or remedy in some way those rulings that the implementation of the decree is taking place. We also believe..., well, it is going to be two years, but the decree has been approved year and peak; therefore, I believe it is also time to know exactly, after the implementation of this decree in this year and peak, where are the failures, where are the deficiencies and where can be corrected or improved all aspects of the decree that are likely to improve. That is why we have tabled this motion. For us, two issues were important, which I believe have been clearly reflected in the compromise amendment that I will then go on to read, in which, as I say, there is a unanimous agreement on the part of this House. We have reached an agreement with all the groups, which I believe is a very positive thing, and let us also hope that, once the groups have responded with a unanimous agreement, the Basque Government, to which we place duties on this issue, will also respond and develop the actions provided for in this agreement, which have to do with the actual development of the current decree. As I was saying, the two of us were the important issues. That the Basque Government assume its obligations and competences in the areas of care for these children who have developmental problems, at the corresponding stages already provided for in the decree itself (primary, secondary or tertiary), as it was also clear from the Councillor's explanations when the inquiry was completed and, therefore, that these competences are assumed in these three areas: health, education and social services. On the other hand, we also felt it important – and we have reflected this in a second point – that a stable funding framework be established for each of these three areas, so that such effective, comprehensive and multidisciplinary care as referred to in the decree can finally be guaranteed. We have therefore come to an agreement in these terms, to which have been added some specific proposals which also had the rest of the groups, specifically EH Bildu and Podemos, and I therefore believe that the text has, in that sense, been quite complete. Passo's reading. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, first of all, to implement, within the framework of its competences, Decree 13/2016 of 2 February 2016 on the comprehensive intervention of Early Care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (i.e. to develop its competences under this decree). Also to develop the competences that have to do with the different systems (health, social and educational). Also, on a third point, to define the financial framework necessary to ensure access to rights for all children aged zero to six years, and in particular to provide the specialized services required by those who experience developmental disorders or are at risk of suffering from them. It also strengthens inter-agency coordination. I believe that this is a point on which we must stress, because it was something that motivated the adoption of this decree, the different development of the actions by the different institutions involved. On the other hand, in a fifth point, the Basque Government is urged to draw up an itinerary for the implementation of the catalogue of professional qualifications, studies and competences approved by the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care. And, at a sixth point, to ensure the ability of families to choose early care centres, as reflected in the guiding principles of existing legislation, in Article 6. I therefore believe that it responds to the raison d'être of the original initiative, to the motion put forward by this group, which also motivated the question we made to the Councilwoman two Thursday exactly, and I believe that this is a positive agreement. And let us hope that the Basque Government will take action and put in place appropriate measures to give this quality care to children between the ages of zero and six. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Together the Podemos welcomes this motive, for the initiative and discussions of the rights of children and teenages are very necessary. As soon as we heard of the facts, we spoke to the members of the principal assemblies. We've been studying the initiative, corrections, debates, and arrangement which has been introduced in the grand assemblies of the Arabs, and we've also done our readings and consultations on the early intervention of our immediate attention. Seeing all this, we really want to appreciate the accepted motion. In the early care model developed in 2008, and with the support of the three departments involved, prior to Decree 13/2016, it is stated: "Child development is a dynamic, very complex process, in which on a determined genetic basis multiple biological, psychological and social factors interact. Any alteration of these factors, and at any stage, poses a risk to the child's development. Addressing this issue is therefore of great individual, family and social significance. It has to do with the value of equity, social justice and the concept of well-being in an advanced society. It is a matter of caring above all for those who need it most, respecting equality, diversity and autonomy, and ultimately enabling greater social participation." Having said that, we have encountered an institutional situation that presents difficulties in providing in the most appropriate way, in time and form, the care that girls and boys need with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering from them. While recognizing that there is a network of services that can provide specialized support, it is true that they are not giving all the necessary response. Decree 13/2016 says this textual: "This rich and complex network of services, programmes and actions that has undoubtedly guaranteed fundamental progress over the last two decades, presents, still today, a dysfunction that needs to be solved: it works in a piecemeal way, without the necessary coordination and cooperation between the different care systems involved". And when the public administration fails, when services do not respond as families need, always (and I always say) families are forced to seek solutions and pay for them out of their pocket. But not all of them can. I'm sure we know what I'm talking about. I am talking about girls and boys accessing rights and support that they need based on the purchasing capacity of adults around them if public systems do not work. In many cases they access, in other cases they cannot. So, actually, talking about ensuring early attention is talking about the future, talking about opportunities for equity, social justice, but also talking about leadership from the Basque Government. It's about the portfolio of services, it's about skills, funding, people who are dependent and who care for them, their families. And in so many cases it's talking about the women in that family. We find a model of care with committed services and professionals, but in which are reflected all the problems of the whole system that as active and passive we have been pointing out in different initiatives, spaces and areas of debate: problems in the deployment of the portfolio of services, territorial inequalities, insufficiency and instability in funding, difficulties in clearly assuming the competences that belong to each institutional level, fragmented care, overlap and duplication, and, in the worst case scenario, "one for the other and the house without barriers". The lack of leadership of the Basque Government are structural fundamental problems, problems that we have to address in order to eliminate waiting lists, provide comprehensive intervention and coordinate intervention of the same quality for girls or boys living in Barakaldo, Irun or Oyón. We need to ensure a timely and appropriate response so that development disorders do not get worse, which I understand is, of course, the priority for all. In childhood the time factor, as you know, is key to preventing and reversing disorders. We welcome this agreement which, with the input of all the parliamentary groups, proposes more ambitious and comprehensive in-depth measures, and which invites us to discuss and promote structural solutions when the problems are structural. Together, from the Podemos team, I introduced a correction. I did not propose the change of the decree, because I knew it might be a difficulty to advance it. But although the decree is not to be touched, the jurisdiction, coordination, and finance must be attempted. It is essential that the measures surrounding them should be started. Thus we have reflected on our correction in the second and third points. Strengthen institutional coordination, developing coordination and referral protocols, according to Decree 13/2016, which is a textual issue in the agreement, and provide the necessary resources to health, education and social services systems to ensure access for all girls and boys from zero to six years of age, and in particular to provide the specialized services required by those who are or are at risk of developing disorders, which we consider to be sufficiently reflected in another point of the transaction being presented. In addition to that, this transaction contains issues that we consider essential, and which come to give greater quality and breadth to the objectives that were pursued with the initial proposal. We thank all groups for the willingness to reach this agreement, despite the difficulties, once again demonstrating that we are able to put people in the centre, which is the important thing. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u29	Yes, ma'am. Congressmen, chief physician, good morning to all. In the life of many and many people, I would say, in the daily life and repudiation of their future projects and projections, we are now discussing a subject of great importance in this legislature. What has been said is not difficult for us to imagine that there is a child having problems with different natures, a child whose nature is supposed to be, what it must be, and what it must be to say that your son or daughter you see is perfect, or what it must be, or what it must be, that he begins talking later than the others, and that he has a problem of language, or that he has a paralisis in his brain. "O qué supone que nos digan que nuestro hija, que es perfecto, tiente un trastorno por déficit de gatención, hyperactividad, o un trastorno del spectro autisticist." Nos sleeping potemus imager, huh? We can imagine, yes, what this is supposed to mean, or how a situation like this affects the everyday of a family, but we can get into the toughness of the situation. And we can easily imagine what we need or expected at such moments: the best attention, the necessary treatment, information, advice, care, and protection, and probably an attempt to answer the problems of these children at once, which we should expect. Well, then, in the end, we are speaking of these circumstances in the manner of answering these circumstances, when we are speaking of our early integrating attention to them today. The experts say that 10% of 1 0-6 children can have all this kind of confusion, and I'm not going to begin with giving technical explanations about it here. I'm a Nikolay, but obviously we're in front of a big problem and we're in front of a very important situation, especially people who have to deal with such situations. In any case, from the view of the care of life, from public policies, the answer which may be given to the problem appears to us to be very important. And just as these problems are not today, so the answer is not today. In our community, the programmes, plans, and projects, have not been more or less advanced from health, education, and the field of social services. It may be said that, on the other hand, it has been well done in this sense; but it is certain that all these answers have been discussed in a manner, each on its own account, without co-ordinated by the answers given from different systems, and without uniting its forces, and, in a certain sense, without any efficiency required of the matter. But the complexities of the state of these children, and probably the need and anguish of their families, require an answer to all the ends of their affairs, which will give an adequate, efficient, physical, and reassuring answer. And in this sense, the forum drove some initiatives to define a coordinated model in its own time, and probably conscious of the importance of the situation, it seemed necessary to make an attempt to obtain a suitable regulation about the matter. And I will not here explain what this process has been, you have mentioned it, but it is certain that it had been discussed in its own time about these different sketches of the decree, and that they had for a long time entertained the uneasiness and doubt of some and others in this process. And as this is true, it is certain that many of these uneasinesses and doubts left the decree unsolved. And I should have said that he had left without advice, but it is not so that this decree was carried out by the alteration of the governments of the forum. We already know that the aim of the decree is to establish the basic rules for the organization and coordination of all interventions in the field of early care, which are carried out from the different services, and that the aim is to ensure a comprehensive and effective model, in which the actions carried out by both are properly coordinated. Guk konpartitzen dugu dekretuaren helburua, beharrezkotzat jotzen dugu posetutako asmoa; bath, gure ustetan, dekretuak hutsune gehiegi ditu, indefece asko, garatu gabeko elementu asko, eta dagoen moduan, ez du ahalbidetzen markatutako helburu hori lortzea momentu honettan. The Euscal People gathered together when there was a dispute of this decree in the government of the Giant Fordunda of Gipu, and we participated in this discussion in a very active manner, and they are known to have our plans and concerns about the decree. Baina esango genuke that what happens with this decree is what generally happens in many of the themes of that social health space: it is that it is a small plot. Of course, intentions can be good, we do not question it; the objective that is pursued is also appropriate and we share it; but, as happens in many areas of the socio-health sector, early care is still a concept of diffuse limits not clarified by this decree, which has been very well integrated into the political and technical discourse but which still has many shortcomings in what is its theoretical construction, and above all in its technical application. And unsolved, this decree comes out. Because, in fact, paper endures everything, that we all know. I believe that, in order for any shared responsibility to work and for those areas of coordination and collaboration that are set out in the decree to be given, three keys must be given. One, it has to be clearly defined what each one does, and in this case it would be to know what responsibilities each one of the systems assumes and what forces each of the systems places to ensure comprehensive early care. Two, it has to be clear how you pay, what each one puts, and also you have to get the bills out. And it also has to happen that all systems involved in early care are recognized, and recognized as equals. But we all know that early care is given within a framework of relationship that is extremely unequal, and that this has its effects on the decree and on the development of the actions provided for in the decree. The health systems, education systems, and social systems are widely different, each of them has very different resources, very different purposes; they speak very different languages, and the confession of those professionals working on different systems is very different, and the process of progress is not yet given by the Dictate and decree. As it passes in other cases, it seems or appears that the strong, the medical system, and education, take them off their burdens, and lay them upon the system of social services, in a great measure, the accounts of early attention, and the burden too great: the burden is too great for this weak system, and the burden is still greater, if they are still to define what other systems and how they will be paid. Eta hori da, guretzat, dagoen arazo nagusietako bat, éta jakina da, era berean, gauzak nork egiten dituen jakin behar dugula, bainsa hemen asmoak oso onak izan daitezkeela, oso onak, bainsa hemen denek dakigu sosek erakusten dutela asmoa gauzatzeko dagoen konpromisoa and gaitasuna. And there is the need to define a clear funding model, which also told us the Sailburu that was working on it, and we believe that, as far as funding is concerned, the need to explore joint funding formulas between the three systems is indisputable. Between the three of us, between all of us. Then we could talk about many other shortcomings that the decree may have, in terms of the organization that makes of the integration itself, in terms of what are the ratios themselves, in terms of the professional figures it contemplates, but, well, there are many gaps unsolved and there are many imbalances as well. There is a kind of popurry on some issues, in which social professionals always appear a little worse stops, and what I was saying: it's a plot. It's a plot. Euskal Herria Bildu believes that in the area of early care we must move forward with a more pragmatic and operational vocation, and this implies, in one way or another, to develop the elements that the decree has not clarified. In this sense, well, we have an agreement, with words or with others, in one way or the other, the Government takes up an engagement so as to develop it... he is engaged to develop these elements so important, and we believe that it is important, in this sense, even with some and others' contributions, that there has been a well-organized amendment, that there may be a middle-way, and may be a right one, but in all this the key is will. We believe that both now and then, as soon as the decree appeared, and after that, whether they use the word of change of decree as well as the development of the elements in it; And I dare say, that the anxiety of state, and the necessity of these families, and of their children, require another kind of action, and a more efficient manner. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u31	Thank you, President. We are going to deal here with the ensuing motion for an inquiry by the People's Party on early warning. Decree 13 of 2 February 2016 on the comprehensive intervention of Early Care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country established the regulatory framework for early care, laying down basic rules for the organisation and coordination of interventions to accompany it in both the educational and health and social services fields, with the aim of ensuring comprehensive and effective action, and the coordination of actions in the three areas indicated is a fundamental factor within it. This decree was the result of a long work that began in 2010 and which highlighted the need to establish a coordinated model of care between the Basque Government and the three outlaws, because it was seen that they had a different situation. At that time, the Basque Council for Social Care was created, which prepared a document ("Model of Early Care for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country") which served as a reference to the interinstitutional technical commission, which in turn served later in the preparation of Decree 13/2016. And in its elaboration the three deputies participated. What is clear is that further progress must be made in improving coordination between the Basque Government and the three Members of Parliament, by making the necessary corrections to continue to take further steps in this very important area. But it should also be noted that steps have been taken since its adoption, and one of the best and most important advances in this decree is that the age of coverage that existed up to that time, from zero to three years, to zero to six years. The regularization of this legislation is a great step forward, since in these early years of life the development of children is characterized by the progressive acquisition of important functions, so it is of great importance to detect as soon as possible disorders or developmental alterations of the child, in order to correct them at an early age and that they do not have subsequent negative consequences on the children affected, since they can be corrected in full or in part on time. Early care is, therefore, now directed at the child population from zero to six years old, with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering from them, involving three areas: education, health care, and social services. This Decree 13/2016 establishes the inter-institutional coordination structure that is fundamental between the three areas, and should take into account within it the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care and the Interinstitutional Technical Commission for Early Care. In addition, as regards the financing of early care intervention teams, which is being prepared by the Interinstitutional Technical Commission for Early Care, as other groups have said and highlighted, a study of the expenditure that is being incurred, in order to know exactly what expenditure corresponds to the social, health and educational fields, which, after completion, will be referred to the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care to take it into account for the appropriate purposes. We believe that it is important to have that study, that this study be completed, to know what exactly we are talking about and what part, within the funding, belongs to each of the parts of the system concerned. In the recent call to the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy, she detailed the activities carried out in the field of the Basque Government, both in the field of education and health and in the field of social services, which had been carried out taking on the competence of the Commission in the area of early care. We believe that steps have been taken to move forward, that progress is also being made in coordination between the various institutions, but that further steps can be taken. And that is why we believe that the effort made in the compromise amendment is important, and I am glad that all the parliamentary groups have managed to arrive at a unanimous compromise amendment, signed by all the groups in the House, to go further and continue to complete the development of all this legislation. I am not going to go into all the points, because they have already been set out also in the different interventions of representatives of other groups, but I must point out that within it reference is made to the need to carry out the necessary developments in order to clearly define and concretely define the age group, what competences the different systems (educational, health and social services) correspond to or have, as well as the respective funding framework for each of them. And also to strengthen and continue to make progress in this coordination, which, as I have pointed out, is fundamental among the various institutions concerned, and to this end to develop coordination protocols derived from the implementation of Decree 13/2016. On the other hand, I also think that the sixth point is important, namely to ensure that families have the capacity to choose the early care centre, as reflected in the guiding principles. And, although Article 6 provides, I believe it is important to highlight it also in the compromise amendment. I believe that this is a good compromise amendment and that it involves progress, and that is why I am very happy. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. We are subject to discussion of the premature attention of the Populative Party, which, in the July, was discussed in the General Assembly of the Arabs, as the other spokesman have said. We think it's a very obvious change to the question that was being asked in the interpelation and the demand for the real motion today. The change of regulation was then demanded. The eubertarians don't agree with that request. The other thing is that we've managed to get a medium on account of the distribution of the decree. The decree was admitted by the grand consent of several institutions: And then, you know, he got three forefoods and Eudel's approval. It can't be denied that it had been difficult to get the deal, but finally it was achieved in 2016, and, consequently, the 13/2016 Decree of February 2, it was admitted to be the absentminded Hand-ingrat. He's not even two years old by a decree. For stability of descent, it is necessary that the decisions should be discussed and examined by answers or results. Changes of criteria only cause damage to systems and systems. Today's motion, on the contrary, does not mention the amendment of the regulation, which seems to us to be much more appropriate, because of the interinstitutional agreement reached and for the short time it has been in force. And I also believe that it was the position of all the spokespersons that facilitated the agreement. Decree 13/2016 has been an important milestone in the organization and coordination of the set of interventions in the field of early care that are carried out from the fields of health, education and social services, in order to ensure a comprehensive and effective model in which the actions of the three mentioned systems are properly coordinated. Its purpose is to regulate comprehensive intervention in early care, establishing key elements for the management of an intervention model that coordinates the actions of the systems involved. On the contrary, it is not the establishment of the actions to be carried out by each of the intervening systems. Its implementation is the responsibility of each of the systems, which must be collected in the respective portfolios of services and services, always in accordance with the scope of their own competences. At the first point of the Moment, Mrs Garrido is done, and, well, fun is asking her to fill her responsibilities according to what says 13/2016 Decree, and fill the government. Even the first part of the signed half-way, it goes the same way, and since it's making fun, we didn't have a problem signing it. This decree has meant better organization and coordination of systems involved in early care, highlighting: One. An early attention was only given in the early 0-6 year term. Two. The two types of functional structure of early attention are regulated; a group of prizes of early attention, mentioned by Mrs Garrido in youth, and a party of pre-eminent interventions,AGETs. The rules are very clear of their duties and their functions: the rating group has to prepare a custom plan and let family know. Family, too, is of their importance in this decree. On the other hand, the intervention teams, they give therapeutic attention to discipline. Early attention is a subjective right from December 26, 2016, so the preparations received on the custom plan must be given to the child after the rating has been taken. But the preparations which are intended to be shared will not have the nature of the subjective right. And three otro hito impalant. The Decree specifies the privileges of education, health, and social police, and every one who has to provide for function or service in order to co-ordinately provide them. Around the Titus, the decree has been the basis of forward steps. This decision of the Medical Committee of Investigations of Investigation has been confirmed by the Abregation Council of the Morning Minding Organization, and will now develop the necessary rule. Therefore, the decree has made significant progress: the service has been extended to provide early care until the age of six, when previously it was only envisaged until the age of three; it has determined the competencies of each of the areas involved in early care; it establishes the functions assigned to each of them. And, although the opposition still believes that more could have been achieved, it seems to us a considerable advance to have been able to agree and shape, white over black, the coordination of each of the administration's services involved. It is also important to outline the work of both the interinstitutional technical commission and the interinstitutional council, both of which are of early care, because the different administrative areas of Euskadi are represented and because they value the previous consensus reached in order to reach the drafting of the decree. You spoke of the will, Monsieur Cortha, you think the key is will, and I believe that the will is important, and I think that I have told you, ma'am, excuse me, but I believe the agreements are very important, because there are different departments here and apart from different departments, Eudel... And so I think it's important that these agreements should be published, and given their importance. With regard to the recognition of qualifications, as stated by Councillor Artolazabal, the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care met on 27 October, which unanimously approved the catalogue of qualifications, studies and professional competences for the accreditation of professional qualifications. The agreement will be reflected in the relevant legislation. Sektoreko langileak pozik daude aurrerapauso honekin. Oraindik badugula lan isugaria etorkizunari begira? Dudarik gabe. Eta Jaurlaritza badabil horretan, éta horregatik ere sinatu dugu erdibidekoa, dekretua garatu behar dellako. It is well, besteok aipatu dituzuenez zentzuk direen erdibidekoen puntuak, ez ditut nik aipatuko. In this sense, there are some who, having a clear list of the rights given by the Bench, Health, Education, and Social Police, have mentioned the arrangement of the services which each area provides, within the technical committee. So what was demanded at the second point of the fundamental motion can be fulfilled, I'm working on the Nazifiction. It remains regulated by the hand, and the most important: it is clearly determined what services should be provided in the early, always custom after the rating of that child. Financial and, as I have shown, they tend to rate and share the jurisdiction which each service gives, and to divide the finances as a whole. We also rejoice at the agreement obtained, if this motion is unanimously admitted, and, well, we still have some things in common, which we do not quite agree with, but I think it is important that we should continue to give a good service in the development of it, and, well, as far as possible, if we should be able to determine, but by consent and consent; That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Yes, Miss Garrido, by the turn of the answers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u35	Lekutik, president of the platform. Well, everyone will have their reasons for signing such a broad agreement. Of course, the reasons behind the presentation of the inquiry and the motion of the People's Party were to remedy some shortcomings which we considered to have been clearly demonstrated by the validity of this decree or the implementation of this decree, and above all in line with the position that the People's Party maintained throughout the process of reflection prior to the adoption of this decree in 2016. I think it is important that two very clear aspects remain, which are what the Basque Government has to do with providing early care for children between the ages of zero and six in the areas of health, education and social services. We believe that there was somehow a need to remedy or clarify a certain indefinacy that existed in relation to these three areas that interact in the early care of children of this age. And on the other hand, the issue of financing. It is being studied on the issue of funding, but it seems to me very important that today in this House we tell the Basque Government to establish this stable funding framework also in these three areas (health, education and social services), and that in the end the objectives and purposes of this decree are fulfilled in relation to the provision of coordinated, comprehensive, multidisciplinary care to children of this age. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko. And thank the groups for signing the agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u36	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Anyone else? Mrs. Guanche, no... Mine, I don't... Sánchez didn't... Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque populars, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH, and the Eubertarian Association, the middle-term correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u37	So it's unanimous to accept the half-correction. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Joseph Ramone Becerra Carollo, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, about closing General Electrician's factory in Ortuella. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mr. Becerra, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u38	Good morning, everyone. When I asked the Labour Commissioner about General Electric fifteen days ago, she could have also asked the Economic Development Commissioner or the Lehendakari, because the question we should answer should be answered by any member of the Government, any member of this society: what to do when a company moves, if the person who moves her is a multinational as powerful as General Electric. This week we have learned that Siemens Gamesa will also relocate plants, which will also fire workers. We could talk about the causes of these relocations, but today it is up to us to talk about the consequences. Consequences first of all for people, for the direct employment that is destroyed; for society, for indirect employment; for the economy of the country, for the induced economic activity that no longer exists on the part of the industry towards services. And it's up to you to deal with the problem. It's up to you to deal with the problem. From our group we are aware of the limitations of a small territory such as Euskadi and a regional government such as the Basque Government. We live in a globalized market, where capitals are globalized and at the same time hunger is globalized, wars are globalized, poverty is globalized and precarious work is globalized. And this is precisely what goes on, to globalize precarious work, because what the relocation seeks is exclusively to increase profits at the cost of reducing the labour force. For years we've seen companies from Euskadi go to China, Brazil, Mexico or India, but they don't end up there: China today is being relocated to the Philippines, India to Pakistan, Mexico to Central America, and Brazil to Paraguay. There'll always be someone poorer who does it for less money. Always. We will therefore have to begin to conclude in the first place in this debate that it is good to compete in a global market, but that it is impossible to compete in cheap labour. We can't compete in that. China has an interprofessional minimum wage of 170 euros per month; India has 41. The average salary of a graduate in India, where General Electric's engineering is to be relocated, is 150 euros per month; if they charge 180, they are well paid. And, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot compete with that, neither can we nor should we. This is a difficult and unequal struggle, as I said before, but it must also be recognized that it is not possible to surrender, it is not possible to lower your arms. And in that the workers usually go one step ahead of the rest and set us an example. They set an example for society and set an example for institutions. That is why it is important that the first battle we waged in this is the ideological battle, the battle of the narrative. Because it is not true, it is not true that companies leave Euskadi because they have economic difficulties. And I want to bring here the statements that Arantza Tapia made last summer, when this relocation was learned, and he said that General Electric had transmitted to them the need for a restructuring after having transmitted long ago that the plant, inaugurated just over a year ago, was not responding to previous expectations. And what I want us to ask ourselves here is what those previous expectations were. And I'll tell him. General Electric won in Ortuella, only in Ortuella, between 2012 and 2014, 50 million euros, 50 million euros, with a labour cost that did not raise anything: between 2010 and 2016 it did not increase a 1% annual. Therefore, if he made money at the same time at the same cost, what is the real reason for his displacement? I'll tell you too. Alstom, which General Electric bought, had an average profit margin of 10%; General Electric had an average profit margin of 16%, and in that global thesis Alstom was less competitive. Obviously, the big fish ate the small fish, as I said the other day, and when General Electric absorbed Alstom it turned out that its profit margin, of 16, went up to 15%. The main shareholder of General Electric automatically said that that could not be, and the following was the 6500-person lay-off plan across Europe, only because it had lowered the profit margin from 16% to 15%. And the plan is that with those 6,500 people they raise it from 15% to 18% (not 16%, 18%), because, as I said before, the objective is to increase the benefit, exclusively. And those 6,500, people who go out on the street. They do not leave because they were not profitable, because their plants were not profitable; they leave because they do not meet the company's profit expectations. But Mrs Tapia said: "They made that bet, but the market may not have met those expectations, and perhaps there are more elements to analyze in depth." This is what we need to analyse in depth, what are the real reasons why a company is leaving Euskadi. The real cause is that the company, once it made that decision, removed the workload through Grenoble's sales team, because what was already decided in 2015 is that the remaining plant was Grenoble's in France. They artificially doubled the cost of personnel, and between 2015 and 2016 they sold 47 million and bought 94 million. They bought twice what they sold. For what? To have losses. And they got it: between 2015 and 2016 they have had 59 million euros of losses. All you have to do is make the sum and subtract it! All you have to do is make the sum and subtract it. It is a premeditated plan to artificially close the plant, to increase the profit, the net margin of the big shareholders. So, the first battle to be fought is the ideological battle, and the second is the legal battle, because this that I have mentioned here in Spain and in Euskadi is illegal. It's illegal. It is illegal, and the judges have already said so, as has the case law. In this case, I will quote the case law of the Madrid High Court of Justice, which stated clearly that "although it is understandable from the strictly subjective point of view of business production" (delocalization) "it is not so from the objective point of view of labour law and social responsibility to which companies owe themselves, because there is no economic cause to support the destruction of employment when it is only based on the business convenience of obtaining greater profit and not on losses (...) which hinder their future sustainability". There were no losses General Electric when it was decided that it would close. He had them later, to justify closing. And it is the duty of this country and all the institutions of this country to ensure that the rule of law and the law are complied with. It is not worth being fulfilled only in Catalonia, it is not worth being fulfilled only when there are evictions: also when it is necessary to apply it to multinationals who come to relocate their plants. And in this battle there is also a next battle, which is the administrative battle. Because the ERE in which General Electric is now immersed is a complex administrative process, where the work of the Labour Inspectorate is essential, and where the report of that Labour Inspectorate is a mandatory report with evidentiary value for the courts to enforce the law. I have to tell you that this is the last hope left to the plant to survive, because possibly the ERE consultation process will not yield its result, and therefore the only hope that it will have is that the Government of this country and the institutions of this country will show a certain unity with the staff and with those regions that will be damaged by the closure. Look, when General Electric announced his plans at the beginning of 2016, 6,500 lay, as I said, redundancies: 1,700 in Germany, 1,200 in Switzerland, 760 in France and almost 600 in the United Kingdom, much more than what they do here. This week Siemens has also said that it was going to fire six thousand and peak people. What's the mechanics of all this? The big multinational company announces its cutting plans. Automatically all templates are alerted, and all governments move and try to negotiate with the multinational the conditions for maintaining the activity. It's an auction. It's an auction. And the plants that first throw the towel, and the territories and countries that show less interest or resolve to maintain their industry, are shut down first. When at the beginning of 2016, General Electric's relocation to France was known, the Minister of Economy, who was then Mr. Emmanuel Macron, said, "We will keep an eye on General Electric's commitment to creating jobs in France." Not to destroy them, to create them. To create them. That's what Emmanuel Macron said. What did Councilwoman Tapia say? I will read it to you: "Some companies are doing very well and others are in difficulty, and there is no time for rest or comfort zone for our industry." That's what he said. That's what the lehendakari also said. We are not protecting our industry, ladies and gentlemen, we are not protecting it, and other countries have more clearly that they have to protect it, and that they have to protect it at the expense of anything. That is why there are two things that are essential to be able to deal with multinationals, and in no case with a guarantee of success. The first is the unity, the unity of the staff with society and with the institutions that represent this society. And the second is firmness; firmness to enforce the law, firmness to denounce corporate frauds like this, and firmness to negotiate discreetly the viable exits and alternatives that may exist. As a parliament, we do not have the solution to staffing problems, nor to company relocations, but we do have the voice and vote. And let us use this voice and vote with unity and firmness to make it clear that General Electric Ortuella does not close. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Becerra... Please, quiet, please... Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am not going to repeat it, because we almost subscribe to everything Mr Becerra has said, but I do want to nuance some things. Firstly, to say that we withdraw our amendment because we agree with the compromise that we have reached by all the groups in this House, but I do want to say a few things. General Electric is a company that is news this week because it cuts the dividend in half, because it is sinking in stock market 15%, and everything comes from bad actions – let's leave it that way – globally and globally. As far as we are concerned, which is at the Ortuella plant, and when we talk about relocations of companies, companies are displaced due to a lack of competitiveness in the territory in which they are located. I have met many times with Basque entrepreneurs, and I have never been asked whether the problem of the competitiveness of the Basque Country is the wages or wages of the workers. Moreover, they have come to say that that is never the problem, that that has never been the problem. And what do I miss in this transaction that we arrived at? To urge the Basque Government to create a more competitive and stable framework for all companies. A more competitive and stable framework that prevents some from leaving – because in the last three years some 140 companies have been relocated from the Basque Country – and that framework attracts more companies. It is clear that this may not apply to General Electric Ortuella, because if someone decides to move because they can make a lot more money elsewhere, and not because the plant is profitable, profitable enough, it is clear that there is no stable framework that can sustain that. Or so. But what we are missing from this government is that this stable and competitive framework for businesses is not a priority. And when we talk about tax reforms we mean that, when we talk about infrastructure we mean that, when we talk about connections we mean that. And that is a responsibility of this Government. It is clear that this government is not the main shareholder of General Electric or any other company, and less so if it is multinational, but this Basque government is responsible for having a competitive and stable framework for all companies. If then there are filibusters... there will always be filibusters, but most companies and entrepreneurs are not. Another thing is American companies that operate on the basis of the benefit they need to get the pension funds that are their shareholders... I think they've been loaded up for a short time since he was president of General Electric. Of course, this gentleman was traveling with two planes, we've also read around in the press, a phenomenon. And then they point out that we have to close plants all over the world and fire fair numbers of workers. But I don't think it's the example or the company reference, let's say, to follow or favor, not even its implementation here. It is here, however, and the Basque Government's obligation is to try to keep it here. This one and all. Just as it is the Basque Government's obligation to try to attract more companies. But companies are not attracted to saying "I want them to come"; they are attracted to putting conditions in place for them to come. And, I repeat, the problem in the Basque Country is not the wages of the workers. They've never been! I've never heard Confebask or any businessman raise that! I've heard a lot of other things, yes, yes. There is some representative of the Basque Nationalist Party who laughs and smiles, but I have heard them talk about the electric bill, I have heard them talk about taxation, I have heard them talk about infrastructure, lack of connections to important sites... And that is the duty of this Government. And, of course, in this case I believe that it is much more important for this government to monitor precisely for the strict legality of that ERE. Why? Because, as Mr Becerra has said, there are things here that do not fit. But they don't fit anyone! They don't fit me, they can't fit the government. Because a company in the middle of an economic crisis gets profits, and when it's getting out of the crisis it's suddenly in loss. That, of course, does not seem very logical in the end, because companies that were profiting during the economic crisis then give more. And the Basque Government here does have a job to do in that ERE and the Basque Government has to ensure that the legality of that ERE is complied with. I am sorry for the workers of General Electric who are in this situation, which I see as complicated that they can leave, but at least that they know that – not only our group, I think all the groups in Parliament – we support them, and that we will try to ensure that the Basque Government makes every effort to ensure that this company maintains the jobs it has today in Ortuella. And besides, if it gave benefits, what I had to do was increase them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u42	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. And for the first time, in the way, we must bid farewell to the workers of the General Eltetric Ortuella, who have come to hear and see this pleno. It is not just a formal recognition or a forced question, but it is also a sincere recognition, because these people, as we have commented in other conflict situations, these workers (engineers, designers...), these people who work to get their businesses ahead on a day-to-day basis, when they are placed in the stubbornness of having to fight for the future of their jobs and their businesses are thrown into a dynamic in which they also have to be economists, lawyers, lawyers...; they have to know a little bit of everything, they have to build an alternative of the future, and really they and they are usually always up to it, as is the case. They have been on an indefinite strike since 9 September; they have been on permanent mobilization since that date, even before, and they are also carrying out very hard negotiations with the company, which are even being carried out at this very moment, marathons, to try to speed up all options for the future. Well, really, thank you. Thanks to your struggle, thanks to your work, the rest of us, in this parliament today, are talking about this. You're fighting a hundred fired-outs, but you're fighting more importantly for your company and the future of your region. Today we are going to write the report of a predictable delocation: In 2015 ye shall know most of them, and ye shall suppose what this is: [[He showed a sign.]] The new factory of General Electric Ortuella was published. Two years later, I'm afraid, this is the type of the factory, when it's in its entrance, the gig of the workers, defending their future, defending their jobs. What seemed successful, or at least a new Korean investment of a new company has become a nightmare. And it's become a nightmare, as has been said here before, not because the company lost the money, but because someone wanted to earn more money from an unlimited ambition. The future, the future of General Electric, is decided in a dark and distant office in Europe or the United States. Someone has decided, to make more money, that in Europe the workers should be released. 6,500 are expelled, and more is to be expelled, because in Europe General Electric is trying to close up all the recycled energy line by hydrological systems. And for this purpose, it seems, a strategy started in this particular factory in order to have losses in this particular plant. And the modas operandi is proposed at other times, but I shall here summarize what it was: It is true that money has been lost for the last few years: Since 2014 to 2017, money is lost. It doesn't count that much money had been won during the past few years when the company was still under the Alstom. In all, money has been lost since 2012; but in all, 12 million, the losses of the past few years were sufficiently calculated by the profits obtained in the past few years. And what that means is that this factory is viable. And, further, if we consider that these losses which have been lost in the last few years have been partly aborted, this factory, this factory, have been accused of some of the internal losses, of some other workshops, and that there has been a certain wager that this factory has not been profitable to it. And this is done by three ways: First of all, projects have been taken away from the company. On the other hand, in this factory, the chances of making more competitive offers have been limited. And thirdly, since it has been mentioned at other times, the rate of hours has gone up to put it into a vicious circle. If the hours are paid more and more, this company is getting less competitive and less competitive, so it's impossible to attract new projects. Sometimes, projects have gone out in front of the customer's smoke. When the client asked for a few projects in Bilbon or Ortuella, the company decided to take them out: sometimes in China, and sometimes even in competition. So it's normal to have losses, and so it's normal to say numbers of companies. But the numbers of big companies often say what the company wants to say. Do you remember, two years ago, when ArcelorMittale wanted to shut up the ACB Seastao for great losses? Well, he just announced that this year he has won $3,000 euros. And it is plain that the Enpres have not, even though they were great, to make a machine of the iban money, otherwise they would always have caused that machine. But it's true that they have an enormous ability to make financial engineering, and if they want it to, to explain loss over a plant, which is, we think, what's going on. Thus, as the workingmen accused him before the announcement, he had accused him in the study of work, this spectacle ought not to be admitted, as an excuse to shut up the plant here. And here's the first challenge. And that belongs to the Department of Work, to be strict and very hard, to turn all the options around. And we also have to fight relocations, of course. Mr Becerra has alluded to what this problem is alluding to, where we will always find, always, someone who makes it cheaper. And I also have to tell Mr. Damborenea: we're always going to find someone who collects less taxes. The problem is that in that inexhaustible race for lower wages and lower taxes we cannot compete, because our industrial model is not based on that. I think of a book that impressed me a lot with Mario Puzo, the author of "El Padrino", where he told how in Sicily to do a job were presented the workers' teams, and the bosses made an auction and awarded it to whoever offered it cheaper. We cannot enter a downward auction, or a downward tax auction, or an auction of environmental regulation measures. We have to develop a model that offers companies something else: that offers a complete industrial ecosystem, people trained, indeed, good communications, support for R & D. To be able to maintain that competitive advantage around an advanced industry, and not to bring down our rights and taxes, because it is a race that has no limit. And if there are tax havens, and if there are people who do social or ecological dumping, let's move with that speed, let's stop chasing Russian hackers, and let's devote ourselves to chasing tax havens, because those are actually causing immense damage to government tax collection, and in other cases through dumping. Let us regulate precisely stricter rules to prevent not only economic dumping, but also social and wage dumping. I also wanted to mention an issue that has unfortunately been left out of the agreement, which is the reference to where this company is. It is right in Ortuella, in the heart of the mining area of Bizkaia, a mining area that along with the Margen Izquierda and the Encartaciones area I think make up what for some could be called the far west. The far west of Bizkaia, abandoned to its fate for years, in which there has been a very intense process of deindustrialization, and an area for which already Euskal Herria Bildu proposed in 2015 that a parliamentary presentation be made to study its situation, but for which... Let us hope that in the framework of this paper, which was accepted and in which we must acknowledge that all the groups have participated enthusiastically, let us hope that the work will be completed with real, material, concrete, measurable and economically assessed proposals, in order to make a plan for the complete reactivation of these regions, based on recovering what should never have been lost: the industry, which is the one that really guarantees a strong productive fabric and healthy socio-economic indicators. We would also like to make a more active mention (we mention relocations) of the need for a law against relocations. Because we and we don't remember Santa Barbara only when it thunders; we have been claiming for years the need for a law that, in case of relocation, prevents it, and takes sanction measures against companies that want to carry out this speculative relocation. We have been proposing this in this Parliament for years, the last in the framework of the Industrialization Plan, and unfortunately it could not be. The day that Ortuella's plant was inaugurated, this photo that I have previously taught you, were government representatives in the photo. And I didn't exhibit that picture today as something critical, because it looks really good. Indeed, when good news is given in economic and productive terms, it is necessary to be there, it is necessary to be in the picture of the inauguration, and it seems to us that the Government is in the picture of the inauguration. But there are other photos where you have to be too and there are other places where no photos are taken, and there you have to be too. And in this fight that General Electric's workers and workers are carrying on, you have to be there. There must be political parties and there must be governments, and in this case the Basque Government. And it does not have to be as an intermediary or as a neutral party; it has to be in favour of the right to maintain jobs and it has to be in favour, as an active and committed party, of the maintenance of industry. We also wait for you in that photo and we wait for you in this fight. And in the meantime, cheer up, fight to the end, because you can get it. General Electric Ortuella, aurrera. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u43	Thank you... Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u44	Egun where you're going. Welcome to the workers of General Electric's plant. I wish I could have greeted you sooner, but we haven't had the opportunity to arrange a meeting. We are debating today a motion whose author, Elkarrekin Podemos, has entitled "Regarding the closure of the plant of General Electric de Ortuella". I would've taken her with another degree anyway. It follows from an inquiry that was made to the Councilwoman of Labour and Justice in the past full of control, an inquiry in which Mr Becerra demonstrated, as he also did today, and later reiterated EH Bildu, the situation of the workers of the Ortuella plant, who are facing the decision of the multinational General Electric to proceed to the closure of the factory. Workers who are aware, according to their own statements, that the company has decided to move its production to plants in Brazil, China and India, and for a matter of costs. It is cheaper to produce in these countries than in Europe. And I want to make clear in this regard an issue that has already been expressed by Councilwoman Maria Jesús San José, but that I have the feeling that it was not heard. And I will repeat it to you today, just as with a little bit higher than that of it: the socialists question, we do not share, we reject the relocation of production centres based on the simple business convenience of obtaining greater benefit. Our conviction is not with these companies, but with those companies that are located in our country with the will to root out and with projects that bring benefits to society. It is not in companies that seek such rapid enrichment and relocation when the expectations they have in the short term are not met. I hope that at least remains meridianally clear to you. Because you say, "It's impossible to compete with cheap labor." It's impossible, but we just don't want to. We do not want an industrial model or an economic model based on reduced wage costs. What we want is to compete with highly skilled workers, with research, with development, with this type of productive investment. We do not want to compete with low wages or share the poverty that exists elsewhere. That is where we would have to start working for the achievement of workers' social rights, so that there is no such possibility of competition. Let us make this commitment of the Socialists as clear as the involvement of this government in ensuring that the ERE that has been submitted by the company meets all the requirements and guarantees required by the current legal framework. A framework and a control that has no doubt that it will be carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, which will not only report on the fulfilment of the formalities that are determined in the Workers' Statute, but will also assess the adequacy or adequacy of the formalities in order to justify whether the business measures sought and any other issues that the inspector determines are correct. And it will not do so because the Elkarrekin We may have suggested it in the question to the councilwoman, but because the Basque Government is very clear what role the Labour Inspectorate should play. But it must not be forgotten, and you must not obviate it or obviate it, anyone who, as the Councilwoman pointed out, in 2012 there was a regulatory reform, a labour reform that produced an important, relevant change in this matter, and which we Socialists were not protagonists of, and which precisely affects the participation and capacity of the labour authority in these collective redundancies procedures. Mr Becerra, it has passed, and you know it, from a procedure which was subject to an authorization from the labour authority to another in which what is intended exclusively is that the administrative action be of warning and recommendation, of transfer to the company, of observation of it. But I'm going to tell you one thing, because I've seen that you've been very duke in seeking rulings from higher courts of justice, and you've come to tell us that we don't have a solution, that we have a voice and a vote, but that's the same from here, that we're a small territory, we have limitations... Well, well, I'll tell you something. The Basque Government at one point believed that more could be done, and it did so (it was the socialist government of Patxi López, which some are trying to make it go unnoticed or as if it did not exist), and set up a wall to the extent that it could against the regressive impositions coming from Madrid, from the Rajoy government, but within its competences, logically. That which you have heard us speak of exploiting the competences that we have, of believing in the self-government that this country has. Well, well, I'm telling you, what you were looking for at the time were alternative measures to what came from outside. There was the subject of medicine, but also with labor reform we wanted to do something, because to do the right thing and to have a voice and vote – which we have – and to demand unity – which we can – we have a Congress of Deputies, which is able to repeal that labor reform in this particular aspect and give the workers the opportunity for the Administration not to authorize that employment regulation dossier. Because today, and you know it, and then we will conclude on it, the only way left to them is to go to court. But what I tell you, Mr Becerra: what did the Socialist Government do? He issued an instruction from the Labour Directorate, Instruction 2/2012. And what was this subject about? For, look, it was about the content of the report to be prepared by the Labour Inspectorate, and it directed specific instructions to the territorial chiefs to carry out all their investigative activities. Year 2012. Why and why did we want to do this? Well, I'll explain. Because, although after the reform the procedure is not aimed, and that is true, at obtaining an administrative authorization, and even if it does not have binding effect for the judges who will then have to examine the file (and it is the only way left for the workers if they do not get an agreement with the company), it is that the scope of that report, it is true, is not irrelevant in that procedure, but has a probative value that can defend the position of the workers. And that was precisely the purpose of that instruction that socialist government issued, so that labour inspections were not merely public fedataries. The raison d'être of the inspection function is nothing other than to ensure compliance with existing law, something that can hardly be achieved if the content of the ERE submitted, the documents submitted and the reality of what is said are not examined. It is difficult to argue whether there is fraud or fraud in what is presented, if we cannot analyse the causes. And you have no doubt, Mr Becerra, that there is no doubt either that General Electric's workers in Ortuella, that if there is any malice or fraud, it will be shown in the report and acted accordingly. Mr Becerra, as you mentioned in your speech various sentences, it may be that from what I am telling you now, then, say "Well, arguments of the Socialist Party, of the Socialist Group". No, no, These arguments of mine are literally copied from the grounds of the ruling of the Supreme Court, the Litigation Chamber, of exactly a year ago. Because the State Advocate, when Patxi López's government made this inquiry, appealed it, and the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country dropped it, but we persisted in the appeal and went to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court gave us the reason. He told us that this could be done, and that this safeguarded what it meant to carry out a file check. Even if you do not see it or believe it, there is a commitment by the Socialists and this government to guaranteeing workers' rights before you came to this House, and that is what the Labour and Justice Councillor tried to transfer to you in response to your intervention. And I don't know if you weren't very receptive, or it looks like the tone has to be higher to look like you're saying more, but it says the same thing in one tone than in another. In your speech you asked, when the intervention ended in the full past, you asked us for unity of action from the workers, unity of action from society, the administration and the government, so that these giants would not erase us from the map. But I'm also going to ask you for a unit of action, I've told you before, not here, I'm going to ask you at the Congress of Deputies. They had vertigo to support a socialist government that could have made different issues since then, but we still have time to get together and have unity of action where we can, because with the official bulletin many of the conditions of the workers of this country and of the whole state are changed. In that regard, we should reverse that change that was carried out by the 2012 labour reform, because that would indeed be an effective measure for workers not only to stay behind them, but to have an effective tool to avoid, as you say, the sweep of giants. You have asked for unity and you know perfectly well that we have been working for two days so that unity can take place today in this House, and you also know that the commitment of the Socialists has been behind reaching this agreement. And we're going to sympathize with the staff; they know it, they're not empty words, we're going to sympathize with the situation. We've suffered that in the region. I come from Margen Izquierda, and I know perfectly well what the deindustrialization process means. And it doesn't all make sense, because I'm also not able to explain why at this time the Naval, with workload, is when it's in one of the worst situations. There are things that sometimes logic doesn't explain. But we will also reject, and we have all said, the relocation of activities based on that exclusive search for greater benefit. We will urge that the Industry Plan, which has recently been approved by the Basque Government, take action against relocations from the competences that this autonomous community can have. Because we are going to ask the inspector, and so was the Labour Counsellor, to act with all her capacity, to check the causes of this dossier. And we are going to ask the government to make all the necessary efforts to promote an agreement between the workers and the company that will pursue the maintenance of the jobs of the Ortuella plant. And let us not cheat: it is up to them to reach the agreement. And you said, "We don't have a solution, there's not going to be a solution in the consultations." Well, you can't throw away the towel until the last minute, and one more later. I mean, you have to try and try. And we have to put ourselves behind them to encourage them, to support them and to push them. I hope and hope that this time it will be clear to you what is the socialist commitment to the defence of workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u46	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Good morning... I used to have a test that was just a yes. And I must also acknowledge, Mr Becerra, your laborious pursuit of the agreement. It is also fair – because it is very important for everyone in this House to recognise the permeability of different groups towards the agreement. But I cannot forget today your inquiry, the object of this motion, and I will be critical with you. If I had to synthesize his inquiry last Friday, it would materialize it in two questions: "What is the degree of commitment of his department" (addressed to the Counsellor of Labour and Justice), and "What is the degree of commitment of the Basque Government". Before I go into assessing commitments – surely my assessment of the extent of the Government's commitment will differ from yours – I have to say that for you that is the key, to be committed. In particular, we must have – he told us, and I quote – "a commitment as a country, where the workers, and society, and the Administration and the Government all go to one". The truth is that it sounds good: "commitment" and "all to one", unity of action. With this, he told us, "we will face these giants" – of which Mrs. Castelo also remembered – "to sweep us off the map; giants who have law firms of lawyers and teams thinking about how to close plants, how to take production to increase their profits". To me, so intruder, seems to me a powerful adversary that you describe, as to face him alone with commitment. And you were indignant, or indignant with the counselor, because in addition to compromise she was talking to you about procedure. In my opinion, yours sounded pretty good, but the counselor sounds better to me. In such a situation, I find it smart to use all the weapons, all the tools you have in your hand, more when, according to your own words, "they have law firms and teams thinking" (i.e. they use the law, they use legal tools). The counsellor tried to explain that the rule is the environment where the weakest part, in the case of an employment regulation file, has more guarantees of avoiding attempted fraud. That's what he tried to explain. And that its function, that of its department, the function of the inspection, is to ensure that this fraud is not committed, that there is no fraud, coercion or abuse. The counselor did not read him a trivial and trivial administrative procedure: she gave him the keys to a system where the most vulnerable party has guarantees. Guarantees. To me those guarantees seem weakened, very weakened, but I would never give up on them. The Workers' Statute in its article 51 ("collective dismissal") underwent a major change as a result of the Royal Decree-Law of February 2012. The reform of the labour market meant limiting the performance of the labour authority in collective redundancies, as has already been mentioned here. As a result of this reform, it is no longer necessary to authorize it, the authorization of the labour authority, in order to carry out a collective dismissal. That's the situation. I'd like more and better guarantees, I'd like another much more guaranteeing regulation, no doubt, yes, but it's the one, it's the one we have. Guarantees. The inspection report, in accordance with Royal Decree 1483/2012, is now a key piece. I agree with you on this, Mr. Becerra, it's a key piece of warranty. It can be very effective in a speech talking about obvious fraud, manifest fraud, fraudulent, fraudulent, fraudulent economic causes... It is very effective to finish the speech like this, but what is really essential is to determine the true existence of that violation. That's the essential thing. I am convinced that in this tool, the report, if there is such fraud, the rigour of the inspection report will determine it. I have every confidence in the zeal and professionalism of the inspection of these public workers. Targets. You said to us, "My goal is to keep the plant here, and keep it open and remain viable." And ours. And ours, all right! And I would also tell you to stay, this and all the others, with the will to take root and with projects that mean benefits for our entire society, projects that are not short-term and seeking rapid enrichment. We agree! This government is committed to companies that are socially and economically involved with the territory, and this government recognizes that the vast, vast majority of our companies are involved in this way. Commitment? I would like to return to the compromise, and now I would like to appreciate some compromises. The Councilwoman's commitment, the Government's commitment, in addition to complying with the rule, goes further, acting as a mediator, we were told by the Councilwoman herself. Regardless of the inspection report, the Government, as a whole, is acting in coordination: the Department of Labour and Justice, and the Department of Economic Development. The whole government. This reminds us of what you were telling us about the unity of action, which brought us along with the commitment, of the beginning: all united. We also all know that there are systematic company meetings and employee representatives with the two departments. We could almost say that they are permanently assembled. I know they have their phones, each other's, and they're called constantly. And so do you, Mr. Becerra. And Mr. Casanova, who was talking to us about photos, is also familiar. That is why I do not understand – and I am addressing you – that I refer to that "all together in the compromise", and a minute later I say that the Department of Economic Development does not speak to the staff, which only speaks to the company. Besides being uncertain, it's unfair, and it doesn't help anyone. I also find it serious and inconsistent with your argument when you said that Counsellor Tapia has no intention of analyzing anything in depth, because the Counsellor, in your opinion, Counsellor Tapia, believes in a neoliberal economic model. To this I will only reply with a slight smile and telling him that progressiveism, Mr.Becerra, possesses – in the words of Lucretius – not because of the self-application of the qualification, but because it is consistent with the nature of things and with the behaviors that a certain person and his political attitudes make him a real progressive. Welcome today, Mr Becerra, to the congruence with the nature of things. Our recognition, solidarity and impulse for the staff of General Electric de Ortuella, for the workers and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u48	Mrs. Castelo, the truth is, I wasn't aware last Friday that I used an inappropriate tone with the counselor. If it were, I'd apologize, no doubt. My tone was not of reproach but of firmness, and I mentioned it in my earlier speech. Fuck me. Because it is true that the councilwoman rejected the relocation of companies, as socialist she is, but she also mentioned that we had to stick to the procedure, and she mentioned it several times. And I don't think the procedure is enough. It is not enough, because, before the start of this ERE procedure, the staff, on 24 June I think it was, submitted a report to the Labour Inspectorate denouncing all the irregularities that I have highlighted in my two speeches, each and every one of them. And the Labour Inspectorate hasn't answered the staff yet, four months later. It was therefore my duty, as a representative of my group, to ask the counsellor why we only stick to the procedure, when the Labour Inspectorate has the information for a long time and could have done something else. And the Labour Inspectorate replied that it was not going to do anything until it had the ERE on top of the table. I agree with Mr Aiartza that it is essential to determine the existence of a violation. Of course, but to determine that existence – I just told Mrs Castelo – we have to investigate. If we don't investigate, we don't know. And when the consultation phase is closed, one of these days, you will be left with the Labour Inspectorate for fifteen days to investigate. I said it in the interpellation: what are you going to investigate in fifteen days, Mr. Aiartza, if you haven't investigated in the previous four months? That's commitment! That's commitment. Of course you're gonna have to determine the courts! And I also agree with you that the reform of the labour market leads us to it. But the Government, while it can do nothing to prevent the ERW, can put the means at its disposal to work, and that is compromise. And I have read here the phrase of what Macron said when he learned about the closures and what Arantxa Tapia said. Where do you see more engagement? Where do you see more engagement? That's commitment. Of course, we all want the factory to remain open, of course we do. But for that it is necessary to get involved. And I am not going to use this debate to attack us among the groups, because I think it would not do justice to the objective we pursue, which is to be united and united with the workers. I agree with Mr Damborenea that wages are not the problem of competitiveness in the Basque industry. They're not. They may be higher than elsewhere, but the added value in the Basque industry is also higher. I hope that one day you and I will agree that not all the capital that is attracted to Euskadi is positive (not all the capital that is attracted to Euskadi is positive), and that there are capitals and capitals. And the day we agree with that we will surely have a much clearer picture of how to support the Basque industry. Because, look, I mentioned the problem of General Electric, but also that of Siemens-Gamesa. In 2016, the Economic Development Advisor said, textually: "The Siemens-Gamesa merger is an opportunity for the Basque industry, so that we don't lose our roots and commitment." We'll see you, in less time than you think, here defending that a Gamesa plant is not closed because a multinational like Siemens has decided to take it somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u49	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u50	Mr Becerra, we will also agree on that, because I have already said in the first intervention that all investment is not equal, and when someone seeks to invest in an American pension fund, which is obviously obliged to earn 15 or 20% of its investment to pay the pensions of the workers who are there, it is not a great industrial partner. I mean, I guess we also agree on that. I did not intend to intervene on this second occasion, but I have to say to Mr Casanova that, come on, of course, we are in a global model, and the European Union is a global model, and we also want to be and it is good to be. Because the alternative is what Mr Trump poses in the United States and the rest of the world, and we disagree there. And when you talk about corporate taxation and tax auctions, let's see, corporate taxation is one of the most competitive formulas among the Member States of the Union. Notice that it has been trying to harmonise corporate tax for 30 years and is not achieved. And don't tell me about tax havens outside, because what is tax paradise, Ireland, Holland? Of course, because there companies, of the profits they get out, pay zero. Pay zero. But it is that – let me tell you something else – it is not the corporation tax that sustains public spending; it is the tax with which the least is collected. With what is sustained everything is with the IRPF and with VAT, and that is maintained and increased with more workers and more people to cotice, with good and stable wages. And that's how you get it? With real investments and being competitive, and creating more jobs. They are not going to be created by the Basque Government. And I'm going to give you an example. You rule in Navarra, you are in the government of Navarra. Navarra's government is doing tax competition to the Basque Country! I will tell you the phrase that they have hung on the official website of the Government of Navarre in the tax reform that they approved last year. He literally says, "The SME types are still below the state and the VAC." And the VAC is us. Why does it put in its tax reform that they are lower than in the state and in the VAC? Hey, why do you put that on? Why don't you just put what they are? But why on the official page of the Navarra government says "we have them lower"? Because he's competing! You, your party, your government, are competing with this autonomous community in attracting companies. So, don't give me the speech that this tax competition and auction isn't worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u52	You want to talk about taxation, huh, Mr. Damborenea? I would also gladly devote my entire speech to answering it, but, well, let's focus a little on the subject we are dealing with. But I do not resist to make a couple of judgments about this last intervention. It is true that taxation rests above all on the IRPF and on VAT, that is, on what most people pay, but, although in proportion the corporation tax is a smaller part of the overall calculation of what is collected, the tax that has actually collapsed, and that today contributes half of what that same tax contributed eight years ago, is the corporation tax precisely. We are not going to compete by providing companies that pay less taxes; we are going to generate a complete industrial ecosystem that provides them with another type of value that is also essential to take forward the type of product and type of company that we want to do in this country, that allows us to guarantee labour rights, respect the environment and also sufficient tax revenues not only to guarantee services to citizens, but also to promote precisely that industrial ecosystem and to provide facilities to industries that respect the environment and social rights and high technological content. He said that a series of things like "fraud" and so on are said lightly. No, no; I at the beginning of my speech alluded to the fact that workers now have to be converted into a sort of economists who make proposals and put all kinds of feasibility studies on the table, but they are doing it, they, their lawyers, their consultants, the unions... And when it comes to complaints Mr Becerra said (he said on the 24th)..., I think that 23 June is when a solid complaint is already submitted to inspection, and that complaint does not receive the treatment it should be treated. And the workers are not in line with that. And then the ERE is introduced, then, and you want to subsume one thing with the other. And the workers do not agree with that treatment that has been given, and to this day they still do not agree. Therefore, here there are no demagogic complaints or easy complaints, but here there are studies with data, with numbers, with accounts, very serious, that support the thesis of what is coming to be defended here, and that these losses are induced and that they are framed within a global project to make disappear from Europe part of the activity of GE, and that in this case it affects the closure of the Ortuella plant. Well, Mrs. Alexia Castelo, I don't know if you've ever been told that you have an agreement that looks like a disagreement. Because, of course, if we come here to make a point where we are supposed to all agree, I think it has come more to underline the differences... And in addition, all of his intervention sounded quite like a non-petita excuse, because those of us who spoke earlier did not want to charge the inks against the rest of the groups precisely because we had reached an agreement, which, like all the agreements, supposes to leave us hairs in the catera. And, as I was saying, we would have liked to go further, but, well, at least what we have raised is that this government takes as its own the challenge of trying to defend the continuity of the company, and does not place itself in a role of mere arbitration. Recently in the Committee on Economic Development we saw a very peculiar case, that of Orduña, where they wanted to serve the dining room of the school from a building that was on the street in front of them, and in the Administration they put procedures because they did not comply with the health regulations. And all we had to do was cross a street. This is an issue that has also been discussed here in Parliament. Well, there was an official who put all the obstacles in the world, and it couldn't. You couldn't, until someone else came and you could. And that's why we were talking about it. Well, here's what we have to do to make it possible. And in the end it may not be possible, because – more than once I have said it from this rostrum – I can never demand the government to save all companies, not even all life-saving companies. All I can demand from the government is that it do everything in its power and not just say, "Well, here I have an issue that I deal with with with an absolute technical coldness." No, you have to commit. And no one is asking you, when they tell us that in the law of relocations we comply with the rules of the European Union... Look, our group is in favour of civil disobedience in certain cases, but it is obviously something that cannot be systematic and applied at all times. And, therefore, if we say that a law against relocation is made, we ask that European legislation be respected, so that this law is not a wet paper. But it's just that you guys seem to always, like I said, put on the stretch before the wound. And I am sorry – and I said that we too have fallen behind in the catera – that the Left Margen, the mining zone and the Encartaciones do not have an express commitment on the part of this House, and in particular of the parties that support the Government, with an active process of reindustrialization. And I know that the committee is completing its work, that now that we have to get to the synthesis, and that it may be possible to remember that in the framework of that committee, but I would like that message to be sent to these regions, because they really need it. Because along with General Electric in Ortuella we have, and you have made mention, the Naval in the Left Margin and CEL in Enkaterri, which are three of the leading companies that still survive the debacle of the industry in these regions and which today are in the situation in which they find themselves. So, I would have liked that. I would also have liked to be more demanding with the government, and I would have liked another set of things, but, well, I would rather give in so that we can reach an agreement and that these people who have come here today, and those who are negotiating up to the last minute with the company, can leave with the feeling that at least we are trying and at least we are making all the efforts we have to support them in a situation like that which is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u53	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u54	Well, I will begin by publicly thanking Mr Becerra for his apology from the same rostrum, because we do or do feel offended in his speech in the past, and I also let him know. I think the counselor was clear, but you didn't understand her. I have not downloaded the log because at the last moment I have been forgotten, but she told him that, beyond the rules, everything was going to be put on his side in order to be able to give a solution to this situation. And he told him not to cover up any doubt that the Labour Inspectorate will faithfully comply with what the law says he has to do. And I've already told you before, in case it wasn't clear to you, what we socialists believe – because we write it at the time – that the Labour Inspectorate has to do, even in spite of the labor reform. So, I don't know who wears the bandage before he gets hurt. That is to say, I have come out here simply to clarify the position of the Socialists, because it gave me the feeling, of the interpellation and of some of the issues that were being said here, that it was not clear. Now, may some be disturbed that Mrs Castelo explains the position of the Socialist Group, because she points out that they are not the only ones who defend the interests of the workers, and what matters to us is the region of Ezkerraldea, of Meatzaldea or of the area of Enkanterri, for, man, that is a question that everyone should look at when they say it. Everyone gets offended whenever they want. I do not think that there should be any doubt, Mr Becerra, and you are calm enough, and the workers are also calm enough, that the Department of Labour has put in place all the mechanisms at its disposal, not only for inspection, but also for mediation and mediation, to get to the bottom of this issue, to supervise. And that report will faithfully comply with what I have transferred to you before and with what the counselor told you: it will thoroughly review the conditions and issues on which this ERE has been based. But it is true that, despite what the report is, or is the best report the Labour Inspectorate could make for the workers, I also ask them, and that is the objective today, this unanimous commitment, in which we have all left hairs in the catera (we have left them, the Basque Nationalist Party has left them, EH Bildu has left them, the Socialists have left them, and the People's Party has left them as well)... For what? In order to arrive at a text in which what we have to move here is to send a clear message on this issue of General Electric, and not to mix it with the cuisine of Orduña, which could answer that, but it seems to me that it would be to distort the issue that we have come to discuss here today. And the message has to be clear: the Basque Parliament on this issue, in the situation of General Electric, where it puts itself next to the workers of the plant, and not the company. We question the attitude of the company, and we will do everything that allows us the procedure, everything that allows us the legal framework that we have, to be in that position with them, and to accompany them throughout the process and continue to encourage them to continue to try until the last minute, and beyond, agreement to ensure the maintenance of the Ortuella plant, or the best conditions that they consider for their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Finally, Eucabertarians, Lord Aianzia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u56	Thanks again. We were talking about the sex text. If they had told me today at first thing in the morning that we were going to sign a text of this magnitude and that we were going to vote for it all – I think we would agree on this, Mr Becerra – I would at least not believe it, at first. I'd have to read it. Scope of the text, and clarity. I recognize, as Mrs Castelo says, clarity. And yes, I would like it to reach out to the whole of society, and primarily to those working people and workers who are most involved in this issue, who see the depth of this text. With which, the day of the deal... I too am going to give up some issue on the day of the agreement, because I believe that the agreement can give impetus outside this House, without any doubt. If I'm going to make two assessments, one more technical. I know the involvement, as Mr Casanova said, of women workers, the involvement even in extremely technical matters in defending their jobs. It's a qualified staff, and we know that. But in any case, and recognizing it, in any case, it seems to me, in some way, not fair or dangerous to prejudge the work of the inspection. You prejudge the work of inspection; use a time limit... , that we do not know or do not know if it is working that way, but uses a time comparison to prejudge the work of the inspection. Let's let the inspector work! This question is more technical. And then a more commitment-related issue, which has brought us on two occasions, which are the statements of Macron and Councilwoman Tapia. I have not really seen in those statements that great difference that you say. In any case, when I developed my first intervention I spoke of two concepts: compromise and, we said, procedure; compromise and tools. I don't know Macron, I know Councilwoman Tapia, and the commitment is obvious to me, and I think that for you too, but, in the field of tools, those of Mrs Tapia, Councilwoman Tapia, and Mr Macron are substantially different. And you're recognizing that reality in which these two agents move, because you're recognizing it. It is recognizing this, because it coincides with us in the criticism of labour reform. Mr Macron has other tools, we have what we have, and we have to use them to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eunciators, the middle-line correction that the Sears have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u58	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the Congress of the Unai Ui Urzuno Goldgust Group, about the measurements to remove the structural problems that lie behind the rising of the work-raperies. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mrs. Ottagon, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Too many. I don't want to number him, just the extra number. Now, as we all know here, it's been giving a disturbing rise to the works-engineers lately, and the most alarming effect of these work-makers is still more disturbing: Too many dead workers. I'm not getting into the data sauce... Data is data! They're the ones who'd give them, they're the ones they consider, they're not... I'm not going in there. The point is we all agree that there are too many of us. And we are all: the workers above all, but also a lot of business, the unions, the political parties, and the government itself. All the police in general. Work stripers, too, happen in various sectors. There are certain sectors or works which are more especially dangerous or more independent, e.g. the wooding itself; but in general there are accidents in most sectors, which are the first sector of industry, be the building attorney, be the sector of the carriers. Another very disturbing variable: age. If we look to it, it is young men below 25 years of age who have the highest independence in their labor systems. Probably you've had a chance to read the EA 2016 professionals and professional diseases, and it's really interesting. He gets a lot of information, and some consequences can be drawn from the report. It's a pity, in this examination, that only the workers are involved in the social security system and are involved in the coverage of accidents or diseases. How many domestic workers, autonomists, or guests are employed to mention a hubata to you, which, even for these examinations, are invisible? If we considered all these things, the data would be even worse! At the end of June, at the end of June, we engaged Mme. It's been a long time since then, and perhaps more than one might have thought of it: Why is the dispute about this motion now? After the examination, when we had decided that we ought not to confine ourselves to it, we requested a few instances at the Commission of Work and Justice: The most different unions, the corporate associations, the Basque Council. The end of these occurrences is very simple: to give an account of the prevention, which is urged in the field of industry and industry, and of the different circumstances which are taken, and to make proposals to the matter. We have now accomplished only three appearances, which have been really rich and productive. But seeing it will take a long time to do these things, we have decided to bring this motion to a discussion. What's the point of arguing now? Well, the answer is simple: Because we're in the middle of a budget argument, and we want to influence them too. Other enterprises will follow, as soon as the proposal is placed on the table, and it is obvious that, amongst the people of Zenda, there would be a solution to this difficult situation, which causes such pain. Another motive, which is connected with the third point of this motion, another motive resulting from an interpelation of the week before, which is closely connected with the privations of public works, and which we have done with several petitions of information, asking for the full list of the works which each party has assigned, and the detailed information of each work. Therefore, as you may conclude, we want to take a serious hold of this evil! We want to reach all the apexes! We're conscious we won't be able to finish it completely with the laborists! This will be impossible, we know; but we must lead them to the minimum expression, and take measures to make their consequences as small as possible. Today, and with all the information we have in our hands, no one can deny that the labor stripers are directly related to the Prefect. The greater the prerogative, the more dangerous it is to be a work-istract. The origin of the labor stripper and the other health gift is in the prevaricate. This has been proved. It is true that it is not the only cause, but that which most affects it. And that the prevaricators, new models for working, more suppleness, mean contractions, bad conditions of work, bad accidents, or great business productions, between other factors, increase the danger of suffering and losing health. We must all, taking hold of the horns, row all of us in the same direction. In order to upset this intolerable situation, it is inevitable that we should have a proper scope for contacting. It should be nice to create a decent and quality employment from the public administration, if it is exemplary from the public administration, whether directly or indirectly, in order to promote employment without the Administration. And, of course, in all employments, in all employments, you must take effective measures to promote labor security. For this purpose, however, we need all the rights of labour. And we often arrive at the same point we have placed on the table: that of the want of self-preservation. This is what we need independence for. We must demand all the jurisdictions of work. And these, too, are eating things. We have often been reproached that our desire of independence is mere folcllorism, that we have lo lo que importa son las cosas de comer. For this, we must be a free nation, have all our jurisdictions in our hands. It is recorded in the memory of the budgets which have just been introduced to us, that in this event, the management of Work and Social Security will have a purpose to execute its jurisdictions according to the prevention of the dangers of the work or of its dangers. Well, I'm sorry, but obviously this is not enough. We cannot confine ourselves within our jurisdictions; we must go farther. It's all about being an active, committed, self-control. And to this he answers the first points of this motion, but, according to all appearances, some do not see necessary, because you have not even mentioned it in the correction of the whole set, or at least you do not see it at all necessary. Maybe when you're trying to go in another context or another public? Answer me, please: Do you see the need for a proper circle of work purposes? Yes or no? The answer is simple. In the meantime, as long as we have no proper field for working purposes, and the principal decisions which lead to the workers' work conditions, and the preparation which they produce, are taken a hundred miles from here, we have what to do and how to improve. And in this way, we may take the resolution to observe all the regulations of industry strictly, by adding the necessary means. Mrs. San José showed the commitment to study labor stripers in interpelation. To discover the origins and causes of the labor strip, and to set up the measures to prevent re-entering them. For this purpose, and even to promote the health of work, he declared that he had just been introduced to the Security and Medical Security strategy for 200,000 periods, and that strategy has been recorded in the memory of Osalan's budget. Four axes are specified and these axes identified a 12-way field specifying a total of a hundred actions. I've read all of them, and I don't have any trouble confessing that I confirm most of them, but the paper can hold everything. To strengthen inspection, and to destroy accidental rates, is one of the objects of the bureau, but it is evident that the means by which it is directed are not sufficient, neither material resources, nor personal resources. At least you don't see there'll be more resources than those you've been up to now. The budget we've planned for work has been clearly reduced in the past few years. In 2009, Osalan had a 21 million euros game. The 2017 was 14 million, and even though what's been picked up for 2018 has gone up a little way, the ETAZ, the 1420,000 euros, are far from the numbers of 2009. More money is needed! It's not enough to go to Osalan to 12 million! And what shall I say of Vision? A small example: In accordance with the International Organization, there should be a work inspector for 10,000 workers. But, according to several tests, 20,000 workers, there's only one job viewer. That's what makes it a big delay, a lack of control, a lack of preventive work... Therefore, according to these facts, it is plain that there is something to be better than this. In the presentation of the former, Mrs. But what we do not know is, that these 38 visions are work-showers, or some of them are the Visions of Social Security. We don't even know what kind of area these 13 representatives are. According to the information we have, and especially what Mrs. San José said in the performance, it seems only to be of security, because there is not yet a power of succession in the field of work. As we doubt, we've been asking a few questions to illustrate this, but unfortunately, we haven't yet received answers. He said in the apparition, that he was under the demand for an increase of vision, and also that the figure of the new sub-view in safety and health should be produced, and that he should be a sub-visor six, but that is to say, the absence of our jurisdictions: but, as we have not the full reach, we must ask Madrid permission! Nor are we at liberty to lay down the means which seem necessary to us! At the second point of our motion, we have insisted on another question: If any company who has received a scholarship from public administration in any concept does not conform to the rules of labor security, it is necessary to return to all the callings of scholarship, as well as the other. It should be conditioned support. And finally, but not what matters less than that, at the third point of the motion that we presented, we wanted to ask you, or, especially, to fill the security of the public work firmly, in order to secure the dignity of the conditions of work, and to reduce it to the minimum opportunity of getting a job. This point is entirely connected with another action of ours, which I have already alluded to, with the interpelation of the last check, and the consequence of it; so that I shall not go deeper into this point, and shall discuss it further. But I would like to remark, that in the occurrences which we have hitherto witnessed, a LA and LA have come, the public administration must be a model in the prevention which is carried before public works. They mentioned three of the works which ought to be references: Anoy reform, the work they're doing at the Bilbo port, and the work of a high-speed train in the part of the gym. Here, for instance, is where we begin to put the magnifying glass.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u60	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u61	Good morning, congressmen. 99% of serious accidents, including fatalities in our community, are preventable. This is a strong and categorical phrase that corresponds to Alberto Alonso, the current director of Osalan. For my group, in the face of a sentence of this force, and which we share, there is only one conclusion: the right policies are not being made, nor are sufficient or necessary efforts being made to tackle the problem of occupational accident and death at work. This statement made by the director of Osalan was made in the course of the valuations regarding last year's occupational accident, 2016, when, with more than 33,000 accidents at work, there was an increase of more than 4% compared to the previous year, and when accidents also increased as a result of death. Unfortunately, knowing that this scourge is largely preventable, in what we have been doing since 2017 we know that work accidents are increasing again by 4%, and also death-related accidents, in a more notorious way, with more than 5%. Therefore, we believe that the policies that are made are not the right ones, and that is why we were making an amendment trying to point out two things: one, trying to go to the root or explain why we think these unfortunate accidents continue to happen, and, two, trying to point out in which direction we think they have to change the policies. That change of direction before a question that is not at all short-term, and we are not going to take the data from the last few years to say this, because it is true that here there are worse years and there are better years (if we take the whole history, it is a saw blade), but the truth is that the accidents at work are a constant in our companies, and that it cannot be that the workers play health and life precisely to go and do what they need to do to be able to live, that is to work. That is why we believe and point out that in an initiative coming out of this Parliament we have to say why these things happen. We believe that accidents at work are rooted precisely in the precarious general working conditions that we have, that, although they are a consequence of the capitalist system in which we live, which is based on relations of power of the employer over all the workers, while this is true, it is also true that the laws we adopt are those that make these relations of power more or less accused. And right now, after the last two labour reforms, those power relations are absolutely unbalanced. If a hundred years ago the motto "all power for the workers" triumphed, today what we have is "all power for the employers". That is what has happened in recent years, and that is why it is no coincidence that the incidences of industrial accidents throughout the State have suffered a rebound following labour reforms. We therefore believe that it is a political, substantive and ideological issue, but that it can also be addressed with concrete measures. We think that this must be pointed out because it is important, apart from saying that more resources must be devoted, that more efforts must be made, that more prevention must be done – that in this we will certainly agree with all the groups in the House – we believe that it is important to say whether we agree that the logic of current labour relations and the logic of our current working model must be reversed, which is the logic that the economic interests of companies are ahead of health and safety at work. And the economic interests of companies are important; another thing is that we can discuss who has to take the benefits, that I there, sure, would not agree with most of you. The economic interests of companies are important, but they can never be above the health and safety of workers. And we say that happens today. And prevention is very good, awareness is very good, we will not oppose more awareness, but the concrete reality in companies is that it is not enough. Because most workers are aware, and even when they do an action that may put their health at risk, they do not do so because they are not aware: they do so because the concrete dynamics in companies are that, and sometimes they need to risk their health or safety because they have to anticipate not losing their jobs. And that logic must be reversed, and today the policies that are made do not go against that logic. We point out some specific issues or measures that we believe need to be taken to change policies in the sense that I am pointing out to them. We are talking about quality employment, but we are talking about quality employment all of us in this House, and in the end it can be another of those empty words. We talk about public responsibility. First, that public employment is of quality, because it is an example and a tractor. And that private employment that ultimately depends on the public administration has to be a quality job. And today that doesn't happen. Today the assembled system of contracts, subcontracts, chains of contracts, outsourcings, etc., where private companies work for other companies, which ultimately work for the Administration, makes it more precarious, and makes the workers not have the appropriate measures, which sometimes do not know or which company belongs to the foreman who is giving them instructions that day at work. And that has an impact on security. And we are also talking about quality employment and control. Control, because prevention is also control. Control cannot be only a posteriori, but must be prior to it. And that is where we too, and in the transaction we have reached with EH Bildu, are talking about linking economic aid to companies to strict compliance with the law. And we also propose to talk more about fines. And it's often ugly to have to do bad police and talk about fines, but the truth is that we've seen the data the counselor gives us and they give us from Osalan, and last year (year 2016) fined for labor offences worth one million seven hundred and a thousand euros, in a year when there were 33,000 accidents at work and forty deaths. The average gives us that the expense that companies make in fines is fifty-one euros in relation to each work accident. Our health and safety are worth much more than that. And we are talking, as I was saying, therefore, about deterrent measures. We believe that it is important to emphasize deterrent measures. And it's true that the department has done some things, but it's not about doing more things, it's about changing the direction of policies. And today it is very easy to set up a pirate company that does not comply with virtually any security measures, because, in order for them to catch it, in most cases it has to happen that the workers denounce, and we know that the majority of the workers do not denounce for fear of being fired. We therefore propose an initiative, which we have finally negotiated with the proposing group, where we point to the root of the problems and where we point to possible solutions. And we are not worth the transaction that the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have arrived at, where basically what they say is "let's keep doing", "let's keep doing". We say that we have to change course; therefore, it is not worth us that in view of the data we have, that they say that this scourge continues and that it is avoidable, let us say that we have to "continue doing". It is not worth doing: we must change the course of policies aimed at eliminating most accidents at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, let's talk about work accidents, which is what brings us here today. And one of the most important issues that I think we have to point out is the one that the unions gave when they attended, and it is in the fact of changing the philosophy in relation to work accidents, which I think is changing. And it is not acceptable for a single work accident; that accidents cannot be consubstantial to work. Because an accident at work – and I think we all agree on that – is a failure, and it is a failure of all. And so it must also be everyone's task to avoid labour sinestrality. The responsibility to ensure the safety of workers is that of the employer, but it is a task, as I say, that it is incumbent on everyone: the citizenry, the trade unions, the administration... Everyone plays, we all play a role. As well, like accidents, it is everyone's task to limit psychosocial risks, that is, those conditions that are present in a work situation and that are directly related to the organization, to the content of the work, to the accomplishment of the task, and that it has the ability to affect both the welfare and the physical, psychological and social health of the worker, and also to the development of the work. And what we have to ask ourselves, because we have to keep moving, because we don't start from scratch... It is true that the data – then I will give them – are there, but we have to keep moving forward, and what we have to ask ourselves, based on this philosophy, is whether we can raise zero sinestrality in the workplace. This is a challenge that the European Union has proposed for the area of road safety by 2050, starting with a first challenge, which is to reduce current accidents by 50 % by 2020. This initiative, based on Vision Zero, was born in Sweden in 1997, and it is the one that has revolutionized road safety worldwide. And the vision was based on three pillars: to consider unacceptable any loss of human life, to accept human error, and thirdly to place special emphasis, in the case of road safety, on improving infrastructure and vehicles. One of the issues I want to raise in Europe at the moment is whether this model is exportable to safety and health at work. And there are initiatives in this regard at European level. For example, the Finnish Institute for Occupational Safety has created the Zero Accident Forum, a meeting place that is based on mutual learning, where member organizations receive information on practical improvements in other workplaces, enjoying the opportunity to learn from these good practices at the international level. And the zero accident has been consolidated in occupational safety and health as a philosophy, as I say, of work for the fight against sinisterity, based on the basis that any accident is preventable. And many organizations have adopted that philosophy, they have even used that slogan as a registered trademark and as an element in which an organization demonstrates that within itself things are done well in prevention. In our opinion, that is the philosophy we have to follow in Euskadi, that is the right philosophy, but we have to ask ourselves whether it is achievable, whether we can really reach the year 2050, as in road safety, in occupational safety at zero accident. Well, I think we all have to put in the means to get it. It does seem important to me to say the data. The data I am going to say are those reported by the Basque Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (Osalan), which notes that in the first half of the year there were 18,400 new accidents at work with leave, a 2.5 more than in the same period of the previous year. Of these accidents at work in the first six months, 15,532 occurred during the working day and 1,934 in itine, i.e. on the way to work or back home. And in these first six months of the year, according to these same data, eleven people have died in accidents caused in the working day, one less than in the same period of 2016, and three others in itine, also one less than in the first half of last year. And in relation to occupational diseases, according to Osalan data, in 2016 there were 2,009 parts of occupational diseases (1,918 new diseases, and the rest relapsed from previous diseases), which also represents an increase of 1.2% over 2015. The causes of these accidents have been discussed here. It is true, as I said, that any number, a single accident or a single occupational disease, is something that we must worry about all and against what we have to fight, but it is also true that throughout all these years of Osalan's existence, data have been reduced, with saw teeth, as has been said here too, but it seems sometimes, with some interveners, that nothing has been done, and that is not so. Osalan I believe he has been working on this issue. It has been mentioned here that it is labour reform that has led to increased accidents at work. From other areas it is considered that it is economic recovery and increased economic activity that has led to more activity and, therefore, more accidents at work. But it should be noted that the same sectors where accidents occurred that a decade ago were investigated by labour inspectors, are the same sectors in which these accidents at work reappear, and the same violations of the regulations are repeated. On the basis of current objective results, it can be seen that, in addition to quality conditions in employment, it has to do with the failure to take on labour risk prevention rules, which were adopted in 1995 but which, both in times of economic boom and in times of weak cows, have not just been complied with. It should be noted that from the institutions and from the social partners, therefore, we must insist on raising awareness and promoting excellence in occupational safety and health, and raising awareness of companies and workers in compliance with this prevention legislation. Because the unspeakable fact is that the same type of accidents are repeated in eternity in Spain and in Euskadi. That, therefore, must make us think that a true preventive culture has not just been implemented in our country. In order for this to happen, it is true that control and sanction must be increased, and sanctions imposed by the public authorities, but neither can prevention (the prevention with capital letters) be dispensed with, which should be among the priorities not only of the company, but also of the social partners, of the small and medium-sized enterprises..., of all in short. It is essential, as I say, that companies assume obligations relating to safety conditions in the workplace, staff protection measures, maintenance of the good state of work equipment, carrying out risk assessment, training and information to their workers. It is therefore necessary, as the amendment says, to strictly comply with labour standards in order to promote quality jobs, but we also believe that workers must be involved, and that they must be demanding of safety measures. And when these security measures are not met, report. And the public authorities have to ensure that these complaints do not affect the worker, because they are for the benefit of all. That is why we believe that the Government should insist on such a commitment by appropriate public policies to promote and promote preventive measures, and of course also to monitor and monitor compliance by the inspection. And I used to say it, it's done. Because sometimes someone hears things in this House like it looks like Osalan's workers aren't doing their job, they don't do inspections... More inspections are probably needed, more actions are probably needed, but the fact is that the staff are working. Like I said, need more? Probably. In this sense was the amendment that we presented to the initiative and that has finally been included in the compromise amendment, in which I say that we must continue to implement because, as the adviser informed us when she presented the budget, for this year 2018 goes a precise increase in the prevention staff. In addition, we also agree – and it is true that there is another initiative on this issue and that we will also discuss it – that public institutions should be exemplary, that they should set an example and comply in a model way with all the provisions relating to working conditions and occupational safety, in order to avoid unfair and insecure situations. I believe that this is something consistent with public administrations, but it is also something that is being done, and it is also something that is included in that amendment, to continue to comply with that 2010 protocol carried out between different departments of the Basque Government and the deputies. I believe, in short, that preventing occupational disaster is a task for all. I believe that we must insist on prevention, because I believe that it is fundamental, and also on inspection and punishment when measures are not implemented. And in that regard, I would like to thank the other two groups, for the amendment we have reached, which I believe is a good amendment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u65	Thank you very much, President. The Basque Socialists believe that occupational safety is not only a right to health, but must be strategic for the company. However, during the long-suffering crisis it has been one of the great pagans, one of the great abandoned in investment. In our responsibility to the institutions, what we must do is to put instruments in place to stop this bloodthirsty. We have called for and achieved the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate, and in assuming responsibility for this area of the current Government we have decided to express those competencies that we have, not only by strengthening the work of the inspection, but by strengthening the personnel dedicated to combating insecurity. It is a net commitment on the part of the Socialists, who are the first to know that we have a way to go. What is missing is what the initiative we are discussing is talking about, but we disagree on the solutions that are initially proposed to us. According to the Occupational Risk Prevention Act, investment in prevention is an obligation of the employer, it is a decision that cannot be made by the worker in any case, that is true, but security must be conceived not only as a mere obligation – which is – but as an indispensable quality element in companies. It is also up to the worker, as I have indicated on other occasions, to use the equipment, to participate in the training, to comply with the established working procedures, but under no circumstances can he make the decision to invest in prevention. The area of risk prevention is an area of shared responsibility, with the rights and obligations of both parties, and in which each of the actors must carry out his or her duties in a responsible manner. Betting on prevention is the safest investment for a company. Many of the risks can be avoided, and, if avoided, many work accidents can also be avoided. To improve safety it is important to invest in safety, to carry out everything that the norm makes, risk assessments, preventive planning, to follow up on the same regularly... That is to say, real and effective fulfilment in addition to those obligations, because it is not enough to fulfil them, if you then leave them there as if they were adorned and you do not actually and truly fulfil them. This is primarily because of the safety of their workers, and secondly because investment improves the efficiency and productivity of companies. As also recently pointed out by Councilwoman Maria Jesús San José, quality work must be safe, and it is a factor of competitiveness. Investing in security is investing in that competitiveness. It is important not only to have a stable contract and a decent salary; we also have to work in a secure way. We know that zero risk is very difficult to achieve, but we must continue to work on a daily basis to reduce existing labour losses in companies. However, there has been increased awareness among companies in recent years, since the adoption of the Occupational Risk Prevention Act, and the statistics show us, with the data obtained, that the incidence of these occupational accidents has been halved during this period. And it is true that in 2016 the incidence rate was 41.77, while in 2000 it was 84.88. It is clear that they have been reduced. But of course, even if we have achieved that reduction, these numbers of sinestrality are slowly improving, and as long as there is – as has already been said – a work accident, even if it is only one, we must continue to work to keep reducing them. The Basque Socialists believe in a job of safe quality, and in order to improve the figures the most important thing, first of all, as I said, is of course to invest in this prevention, not to mention training by employers, which is of vital importance also in the prevention of occupational risks. Because, of course, what reduces labour sinestrality, regardless of the conditions of the contracts, which also influence, if they are precarious, or may influence, but what influences most is that this model, as I said earlier, is preventive, real and effective, which guarantees the safety and health of all the staff working in the company. But, as has also been pointed out by some of the groups that have intervened previously, such compliance checks must also be carried out. These controls are important, and technical advice and support is being carried out from Osalan, but it is also being carried out from the Labour Inspectorate, a fundamental task in the fulfilment of occupational safety and health, being the Labour Inspectorate the only body that has in the end the sanctioning, paralysing, requisitioning, benefits, which in this case does not have Osalan. And that is why recently the Councillor for Labour and Justice stressed that part-time and temporary contract control campaigns have been carried out, aimed at reducing job insecurity, which always benefits the reduction of accidents, as well as occupational safety and health. And at the moment, in the area of the human resources we have, it showed us that we had a deputy director of the inspection, with thirty-seven inspectors and seventeen subinspectors of employment and social security. That during 2017 ten new labour inspectors have been incorporated, with which the staffing that we have right now, if we also have the Deputy Director of the Inspection, is thirty-eight inspectors. And that will also be incorporated, in an OPE that is currently taking place, celebrating, within the year 2018 will also be incorporated more than six places of a new body that is created, that did not exist before, that are the subinspectors of occupational risk prevention. So far, as I have said, only the sub-inspectors of employment and social security existed; this body is being created new, and six new sub-inspectors will be incorporated next year, who will have exclusive competence in the field of occupational safety and health. Thus, in carrying out all their activities and activities in this field, they will serve as a reinforcement for labour inspectors in matters or in actions aimed at reducing labour injury, and therefore logically also with sanctioning powers exactly as the Labour Inspectorate has. That is why we have at present the maximum number of labour inspectors since the transfer of the inspection, and we have also achieved the greatest increase in staffing over the last 30 years in the Labour Inspectorate, here in this Basque Autonomous Community, with which the data are positive. And we will also continue to make progress, as I have already indicated, in the enlargement and reinforcement of more people, seven more people, in order to be able to act in the field of occupational risk prevention for the coming year. With this, the figures are positive, and whenever human resources are strengthened, much more action will be achieved, much more control in this area, and it will always have a positive impact in this area. That is why we believe that the compromise amendment to which we have come directs its approach to the most important, which is precisely the need for this increase in personal and material resources in order to be able to increase campaigns for the prevention of occupational risks. But we also stress that employers are urged to comply with all legislation on occupational safety and health. And that's not a ballad, because it's up to them, as I have indicated in my exhibition, to invest in ways to prevent occupational risks. Finally, it is also included in a point that Parliament urges the Basque Government, in the field of public works, to continue to implement the action protocol for the prevention of occupational risks in the works relating to the major infrastructures promoted by the public administrations of the Basque Country, which was signed on 2 June 2010 between the Basque Government and the three deputies and which has a working group which meets regularly, with timetables and with a follow-up of all public works since 2010, which is quite important, and where any sanction, any action is being taken, and which can also be scheduled for inspection and control within the specific public works, within that specific working group which has already been established since 2010 and which is quite important, and which has been following very seriously and very important all the actions that are carried out exclusively in the field of public works, detached from the rest of the construction works that may exist. I therefore believe that it refers to important issues, and of course we are satisfied with the compromise amendment to which the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group have come, taking up the points I have made in my speech. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u66	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u67	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Again. "Lan-istripuen aurka egin beharrekoa, Lan Arriskuen Prebentziorako Legearen eremutik harago doa, hainbat faktore dauzka age of the hour of the guztia modu integralean egin behar zia aurre". This sentence is not yours, Mrs Otamendi, it is Mr Urruzuno's, who made this statement in the inquiry to the Councilwoman of Labour and Justice. I agree with this approach made by Mr Urruzuno, and I agree largely with his speech today, Mrs Otamendi. But I do have to find that the speech of that inquiry was significantly different from yours today, and I am not going to obviate it. How was this question addressed at the time, how did Mr Urruzuno address it? He explained the context to us, gave us his description of all those elements, and went filling in a package, and closed that package with a loop. It is filling the package basically with some falsehood and many half truths, and it closes that package with a big loop, which is "The Basque Government does not assume its share of responsibility, there is inaction of the Basque Government". Mr Urruzuno will remember this question. I'd like to do an analysis of that description. Some falsehood, mainly referring to the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in labour reform. Re-examine the final debate in Congress on 9 September 2010. One thing that caught my attention, too. I do not consider this to be a falsehood or a half truth, but to refer to health, occupational health, with regard to GDP... I understand, and I have more or less these calculations, what he did: the EUR 14 million, between the EUR 68 billion of GDP. I really don't understand this question, where I wanted to get to with this question, but good. And what I'm most interested in, the section of the half truths, and I wanted to focus on a couple of examples. Mr Urruzuno referred to those affected by asbestos in this area. We attach importance to this injustice; you, Mr Urruzuno, introduce that data into your package in our opinion without any rigour. You use those affected by asbestos by including them in that approach. When they were infected, what exposure prevention is being done at this time, what efforts are being made in the area of health surveillance by Osalan and also Osakidetza, how we try many, including their coalition, to correct the forced compensation to those affected and affected, despite the inaction of the State... I don't think those data have been entered sufficiently rigorously. Another issue, in my view more focused on what we are discussing today, is the treatment of other statistics, statistics. This increase in accidents at work, which gives rise to this initiative, the data of accident. There is a really significant decline in recent decades, it has already been mentioned: we went from 50,000 casualties in 2000, to last year, last year, 31,000 casualties. Mrs Sánchez has already explained to us how the incidence rate has been halved: from 84.88 per thousand to 41.47, a decrease of half in fifteen years. But, indeed, with saw teeth, which Mrs Llanos also commented on and which are collected and which are recognized. But the reading done at that time only puts the focus on the ascending saw tooth (a half truth, a half truth). And this question concerning quantitative data, but what about qualitative data, Osalan's work? During the past exercise, the professionals and professionals in Osalan – and I am glad that Mrs Llanos has also made this reference – have all investigated all, all fatal work accidents, the very serious, the serious, the multiple and the diseases with possible occupational origin. That's a database, qualitatively, amazing. This battle is won by building on solid foundations, empowering reliable and powerful sources and information systems that facilitate preventive and health promotion functions. You don't win with half-truths. I am sure you are concerned and aware of this issue. I'm sure. And the government is clearly also, and we guarantee it. For all (for you, for us, for the Government), one accident – and this concept has been repeated a lot and it is essential to keep repeating it – a single accident is already a lot, and it is an expression of a preventive failure. But you have to use certain premises. And, in my opinion, a description is made at that time so far away from reality that it is not credible. Reality also doesn't need that, because reality is always going to be hard. Because there is no acceptable number of accidents at work, there is no acceptable number of deaths at work, because there are no numbers, there are people, and a dead person is already a lot. As the counselor stated in her inquiry, we too believe in the right of all workers to return to work under the same conditions as we left home. We also firmly believe in our right to our retirement, at the end of our working life, without any consequences on our health. And, in the face of that link that I was initially talking about not taking responsibility and inaction from the Basque Government, my analysis is different. We can see real involvement, involvement together with responsibility, involvement with planning, and involvement with action. We can see these priorities in the government's action in Osalan's management plan, and I would highlight four points: The need to continue to promote the culture of prevention of labour risks, i.e. the importance of taking these issues beyond the workplace, beyond the workplace; the whole of society should be aware of their importance. For us, for the Government, this is the nuclear issue. And I will refer to the interesting appearance that we had in committee, which we agreed with the unions and some business association that also happened, and we talked about this, the culture of prevention. And he used some syndicate the simile of driving (speed, etc.), adjusting us a little to the topic of prevention: in what a few years ago it was a question, let's say so, to some strange extent, to put on the belt ("I have been fined for not wearing the belt, look what it does!") –culture of prevention–, today he sits next to his aita or his mistress a ten-year-old or a child and says, "Love, the belt before you take off". A culture of prevention is being worked on in the workplace. Research should continue to be promoted on the impact on the safety and health of workers of new technologies, prevention 4.0. Changes in forms of work force us to do this: automation, collaborative robots, etc. Special attention should be paid to activities, occupations and groups with higher rates of injury – you have also pointed out – and with higher rates of occupational disease: SMEs, self-employed, the primary sector, subcontracting and groups with special needs. And we'll just get it, we'll just get this, move on with the commitment of all of us. For this reason, coordination between the bodies of the Basque Government itself in the field of accident investigation, collaboration with other public bodies (we refer in our amendment to this issue with the deputies) and establishing a dynamic of working together with the social actors present at the General Council of Osalan. I have asked a question in those appearances to which you referred, Mrs Otamendi: Why are some who should be in that body not? With everything they have to contribute, with everything they have to contribute in this matter! And what you were asking us, or I have understood you this way, what this motion is about now (you were saying "No; you will be wondering what this motion is about now"), to me it has sounded a bit like a non-small excuse, but, in any case, it seems good to me, because it is always appropriate to move on to something as important as labor sinestrality. And, although we've gone through some appearances and we're going to other appearances, I'm sure those agents who come to those appearances will have a lot of input to move us, which will be creative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. At the turn of the answers, Madam Ottagon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Sánchez, I didn't say... I mean, I don't agree with the statement you make in your agreement at the very first sentence. That's where you say a job accident can be avoided. Well, I don't think that's the way it is. It is true that we may lead them to their minimum expression, that accidents with serious consequences, or such consequences as may be taken notice of, may certainly be avoided. But it can never be prevented from getting a ankle up and down to a small level, or being an accident on the way to work, which is inevitable. Yes, it is true that what we can do is to avoid the significant consequences of these productions of labour, or the consequences of those who have it, we can do that, and the consequences of them to the minimum expression; but never avoid it. One more thing, allow me... Well, I've already mentioned in the introduction of the budget that the chief physician said six new squares, that he asked leave to re-establish six new squares of vision, and he said, "la peticion de creacion de sixs nunas Squares." What you just said seems to be almost accepted. I don't know if I've lost some chapter on the way I've lost it, but that's why I've been asking for information, estimates of budgets. So, we'll see when we get an answer, and again we'll have a chance to go deeper into it. Mr. Aarda, I said I'm not going to get into the data from the start, I'm not going into the statistics, there's a data and statistics check, and we all know what these statistics are about. Well, so I don't need to get into those statistics. The presence of a single accident, at least one accident with a significant effect, means that there is no prevention, you said, even ochèh, and so everything that is done is very little. Then the statistics are of no use to me, and that's why I didn't get into it. The question I asked is a rhetorical question, and I answered it myself. I have said that perhaps some one will ask you, or you will ask why, after so long a time, the dispute of this motion. I said, I said, I answered: I said that we have budgets over and that we want to invest in budgets, or that we want to condition budgets, so to speak, with one of the iogonized points we wanted in this motion. So that's the intention of bringing the motion here today. And I asked a question and you didn't answer me. I've asked if you can see the need for a proper framework of relationships. Neither one nor the other, the representatives of the different teams that support the government, neither of them answered me. And I'd like to remind you, this year, on the 25th of May, when we discussed the projects and proposals of the community, and its collective negotiations, we came to an intermediate point, more correctly the representatives of the United States of the United States, the EH, well, Euberters, and Sociists, as well as the Society of the Basques. And that's where it's required to negotiate by default the Euscal zone... Oh, blah, blah, blah... to walk in a frame of work, and to set a pattern for your work. This is why I asked, in this case, I do not know, at the first point of our legal proposal, that was what we were trying to make out: the need for a field of work purposes. I was just asking you whether you guys can see the right thing or not, and you haven't even answered me. I wanted to say very briefly: To-day, at least, our will was to agree to a medium, to reach a middle path, which would be as much protection as possible, but to the truth, I must say, I am a little offended by this matter, for, when I got in touch with Mme. Sánchez, to be able to arrive at one of my surprises, when he replied that you have already reached a middle course with PP with PP and PV, so I don't know whether you have expressed any consent. And, I think, it is true, that on such an important subject, there are possibilities of success, leaving us all a little in the way, of course, but in a serious matter, we had a chance of success. I hope, in the next discussions about this, we shall have another choice. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u70	Thank you, Madam Mount. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u71	Thank you. Well, the truth is, unfortunately, it seems to me that there hasn't been much debate on a matter that I think is very important. Of course, everyone says, we included, a series of obviousities, such as concern about work accidents; we say sentences all, we included, like that no work accident is tolerable... And it's true that zero accidents will always be impossible, that's true, but it's also true that serious accidents and fatal accidents are avoidable. I share the opinion of the director of Osalan in that regard: the serious and the very serious. Therefore, it is not enough for expressions that we will all share, because it would have to be a real animal to not share those kinds of expressions, of course. The point is that in the initiatives we say what needs to be done, and that is where the differences that may lead us today to fail to reach an agreement are. Mrs Sánchez said that she disagreed with the things we proposed. He didn't tell us what things he didn't agree with. All right, because one feels even more comfortable when they don't criticize you for the things you've proposed. And in many of the things I hear I also agree, but when we raise a number of specific issues in the transaction, if you do not agree, then, well, we would have to see why you do not agree, and why we do not agree. And it seems to us, or to me, I have the feeling after the debate that above all we are talking from the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, above all we have talked – I do not say that exclusively, but above all we have talked about – about something that I have referred to before. Well, prevention, it is true that there has also been talk of control, etc.; but we are not talking about what labour market we have, that in my previous intervention I have tried to explain that for us the root of the problem lies in the type of labour market we have, in the type of labour relations we have, and in the correlation of forces, or in the power relationship that, in our opinion, there are between two social classes in our country and in so many other countries. And that affects the working conditions and, therefore, finally the occupational sinestrality. And that's why we think we have to approach it from there, from the base. And that's why we're referring to labor reforms. Not because we want to come here once again to say how bad labor reforms were, and also to tell the PSOE that we didn't really like yours either. No, no, It is because we are convinced that these labour reforms are the ones that affect the current situation, which is unbalanced between employers and workers' representative organizations, and that this has a direct impact on labour mismatch. We therefore wanted to explain the root of the problem in our view, and to raise specific issues that we believe need to be addressed. And what we think is that what is finally going to be approved is not that it's a terrible thing, but basically what it says is that you keep doing what you're doing so far. Indeed, with some increases. Of course, who will not agree that we invest more in occupational health and safety and in occupational health and safety policies! No one's gonna be against that! But the truth is that it's not just investing more, it's changing the kind of policies that are made. And that's why I was referring, for example, also to the little control there is. And when I talk about fines, it's not because I like to fine them, but because we really don't pursue fraud in the workplace, we pursue it very carefully. And it's true, now we're going to have more work inspectors, but it's just that the strip isn't that it wasn't too high, it's that the strip was on the floor. I have never been in a House like this before, but, of course, one of the things that surprised me last year was to learn about the number of inspectors we had. I did not know the number of inspectors in the Autonomous Community; what I did know was what it took them to answer when they filed a complaint with the Labour Inspectorate, which they put it many times from the union because, as I said before, most workers do not dare to report. And that is why it is not enough, as some intervener or intervener has done, to mention that it is denounced: the majority of workers cannot denounce in the current correlation between employers and workers. And that is why we stressed that we must go to the root of the problem. And that's why I think... my personal opinion of what Mrs Llanos has said, of whether road safety policies are transferable, without having thought it through, I don't think so. Because in road safety there is no correlation of forces between two classes from which arise working conditions that lead us to greater occupational disaster. Just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the population, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u73	Mr Hernández, of course we could talk here about the different economic or labour models, and I think that talking about that can be very good, but here the reason for the questioning at the time, and the motion, which I think is absolutely timely, was the accidents at work, which, moreover, as has been said here, are talking about different people. You were talking about temporality, and I'm going to give you data. Because, according to data from the State public service, in Spain as a whole during the first half of 2017 more than 346,000 temporary contracts became indefinite (it accounts for 21.2% more than the previous year), and 73% of existing contracts in Spain are indefinite contracts. And from the job that is being recovered, 93 % of which is being recovered, is being recovered on a full-time basis, not on a part-time basis. And one-month contracts, which were sometimes said in the committee – today it has not come out, but in the committee it has been said – are 1% of the contracts. And if we go to data in Euskadi, then it is estimated that in this year 2017 75,000 indefinite contracts will be created, and, according to the Labour Relations Council, indefinite recruitment has risen by 14,4 %, far above the temporary one, which has risen by 4,8 %. With regard to issues that you raised, he said that he did not share the view that zero accidents could be achieved. I think that should be the target. Because Mrs Otamendi said..., I believe that she herself entered into a contradiction, because on the one hand she told Mrs Sánchez that there were no inevitable accidents, but then she came to say that accidents are avoidable, because what happens is that when there is an accident, the prevention regulations and the established labour regulations have not been complied with. Then, Mrs. Otamendi, are they either avoidable or... Because you said "A sprain may be"... but it's just that that's not a work accident; it's an accident that has occurred in the workplace, but it's not about a breach or a breach of safety standards. We're talking about different things. With this it is true that on the part of some of the unions who came to the committee, a great deal of effort was being made – and I will now refer to – to the demand for a proper framework of labour relations, to change labour reforms..., but, Mr Hernández, it was also referring to what is being done, eh! It also referred to what is being done! It was also said that the inspection would be increased, it was also said that prevention delegates would be better trained, it was also said that the number of inspectors would be increased, which is what will be done next year, which was part of our amendment... I mean, they didn't come to say "Nothing that's being done goes for nothing and let's change everything." No, no, What they came to say is that, of what is being done, more is done. And you said about the complaints. If you go to Osalan's data, of course there are complaints, and a few. And a few! Of course, it should be encouraged that, as in all non-compliances, such complaints should increase, and that those who observe non-compliance should increase. And the public authorities will be giving sufficient means for such breaches to be reported, for the prosecution of such breaches, and for there to be no consequences in the event that the worker has reported such breaches. But it's true that sometimes..., not so much here, but in the committee it did happen so by some of the participants, in giving a sort of catastrophic scenario that nothing has been done, and it has been said here that in the data there has been reduced labour sinestrality. And of course a single accident, a single accident is already serious, because for the family, especially if there has been a death, for that person's family is all that matters. She doesn't care that there's only that accident; for her, that's the only one. And in relation to the original initiative..., and here too, Mrs Otamendi has put a lot of emphasis on the claim of her own labour relations framework. Because it is true that in this case the Basque Nationalist Party not so much, but Bildu always takes advantage – I have said it many times – of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, or the Nervion or the Ibaizabal through Galdakao (take the hydrographic reference you like best), to claim the proper framework of labor relations. When we also talked about collective bargaining, it also marked it. So, I was afraid that, although you had tabled that amendment, you were not going to talk to me, to this group at least no one has called you to agree. Now, as I imagined, one of the conditions to be put into the amendment is that claim of the very framework of labour relations which is being asked for everything, therefore, that we were hardly going to reach an amendment. And we have done so with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. I also believe that this is an amendment that focuses on the issue that we are bringing here today, which is to put in place measures to try to avoid accidents at work and accidents at work. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u74	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u75	Mrs Otamendi, Mr Hernández, obviously we first got in touch with the People's Party, because it was much more focused on finding solutions in the line that we proposed and that I think was the right one. Obviously, we do not agree in one's own field of labour relations and that this field of its own is going to put an end to labour sinestrality because of the mere fact that it is approved. And, therefore, that is a point to be taken into account, which distanced us a lot when trying to approach our positions. We also did not agree with the second point, which linked any kind of economic aid that a company could receive to the mere fact that there was a breach within that company in terms of occupational risk prevention. Because, first of all, there are no specific aids to be met, they do not exist, and therefore it did not make sense. But we also do not understand that any kind of assistance from any other department has to be linked to that compliance or non-compliance. Because it can give rise to unfair situations and even put into difficulty the viability of some company, with which we do not agree, and jobs of workers who do not have to be linked. If there is a breach here, for that there is a sanctioning procedure. And the Labour Inspectorate is already going to apply that sanctioning procedure, to impose the sanction that they consider relevant. It will then also depend on the severity of the sanction, because there are qualifications and degrees which the Labour Inspectorate will already assess when assessing the amount of the sanction, taking into account the various factors and the different checks it has made during its inspection. Mrs Otamendi has pointed out that it is not true what was raised in our compromise amendment that accidents are avoidable. What do you mean, no! In other words, accidents at work cannot be avoided! Of course they can be avoided! Appropriate measures can be avoided on many occasions. That 100 percent maybe you can't avoid them all? Well, we also agree on that. But they are avoidable, the statement is perfectly correct, because they can be avoidable. And many are avoided. It cannot be statistically defined how many accidents have been managed to avoid in the end with all the measures that have been taken, that is difficult to evaluate statistically, you never know everything that has been avoided, but they are avoided, and they are there. And this is done through the requirements, advice and actions carried out by Osalan and carried out by the Labour Inspectorate on a regular basis. On the other hand, Mrs Otamendi indicated that they did not understand why the places of labour inspectors here were in a national competition. Because the Labour Inspectorate remains a national body, and the sub-inspectors of employment and social security and the inspectors who are now created, of occupational safety and health, are a national body, and are involved in competitions at the national level, and are coordinated between the Basque Government and the ministry in Madrid, the state ministry, so that the vacancies that are here that want to be filled are placed in those national competitions. And any national inspector can come here, as any inspector who is assigned to any of the transferred places can compete and go anywhere else in Spain. That will continue to be the case, and there is no problem, because it is a national body and labour inspectors are also entitled to be able to move in all vacant positions, whether transferred or not, belonging to the State. On the other hand, there is always only talk of the number of existing transferred inspectors, as if there were no more inspectors also in the Basque Autonomous Community. And that's a mistake. Of course, we here always focus on the inspectors transferred to the Basque Government, but there are also untransferred inspectors, and they are also destined in this Basque Autonomous Community, and they are double or more. Which in the end we have twice as many inspectors working with, not just thirty-eight. Obviously here we always talk only about the transferred inspectors, but there are more, there are not only thirty-eight. And that's good, because they'll always add many more when it comes to performing. But, of course, the increase in places that has occurred during 2017 and that is going to occur in 2018 has never occurred here in life. With which that is good, that is positive, and we must be happy about it, because that is a very important achievement. Seventeen more places isn't ballad, it's not nonsense. It's never happened before. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u76	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And in the end, Eucabertians, Lord Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u77	Thanks again. Four very quick questions. First, he was asking us a question about the very framework of labor relations... He knows perfectly well our position on a proper framework of labour relations; it is no secret. I believe that the issue here is more linked to the extension of the agreement or debate. More to the extent, and we saw it in the previous debate, that we were even appalled by Mr Becerra and myself of the points that were remembered. In the field of work, I come up with a hundred thousand stories about which we can agree, and right now, using a little list that I am making up in relation to these appearances, not just labor relations: precariousness, stable employment, psychosocial risks, the need for sanctions, coordination... They're all very important. But, of course, it is you who set the debate a little bit, and indeed the debate on the day of the inquiry was set in the field of statistics, mainly those statistical bases. I understood that, and I have read on a couple of occasions Mr Urruzuno's speech. And now you're telling me that statistics to you (which has scared me a bit), are useless to you! I understand it's a way to talk. "They're no use to me"! Man, they're the basis, the statistics are the basis for determining, and in relation to what Mr Hernández says, they're the way to measure and determine what we're doing well and what we're not doing so well. That's the essence of that tool, achieving that goal. In this sense, you said that you saw the unfortunate debate: you said "sadly there is no debate", "sadly...", and I saw you as a little plied there, lamenting. I have seen a debate that may have sinned in that, if not in some areas, and it is a question that we can do, we can discuss areas, and we will certainly do it, right? And you said, Mr Hernandez, "Let it continue to be done...", "Let it continue to be done...", "Let it continue to be done the same is not good." Well, let it continue, in areas where it's doing well, it's not bad either, even I'd say it's good. Man, that's where we got or found the veto... let's throw it around, shall we? Let's pull the veto, because in this we're doing well. And these statistics tell us areas, or give us guidelines, they mark us environments where things are being done very well, and others where we still don't have the key. And for us the keys, and I bring it back, the keys would be two. The first, and I referred in my first speech to it, and I would like to stress this preventive culture, which we have seen in other areas. And I've talked about road safety before, but we can talk about tobacco, for example. Issues that a few years ago seemed normal to us today do not seem normal to us. We've changed, we've managed to change culture. This society has managed to change culture, and that can do much in the field of labour relations, change that culture. And the government is on it. And then the second key, the participation of all and all. And in this participation what we are seeing is that at some point there are some highly qualified agents who do not participate in the way in which they would have to participate in my opinion. Perhaps because I have had a culture of participation: where I have been able to participate I have participated, and if I have had the consideration of being, let's say, a singular agent, or with much to say, it is when I have actually gone with great desire to participate. And that, no doubt, is everyone's job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u79	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscalia Socialeists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucousists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u80	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the entire meeting until four o'clock. It was two and thirty-six in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u81	Well, good afternoon. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, in order to improve the resources of the public network, was to increase in the 2018 General Practical Preservations about the increase of the BP for 1 0,5% of Education. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, the representative of the Potemus has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u82	Hello, good evening, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It's the same proposal as we're describing and discussing today, about the increase of 0.5% of the Bargain Productine in the Education of 2018. We've registered it on October 2nd, that's the educational investment proposed by the government to the budgets of 2018. As you can see, we were not optimistic about what the Government was going to reserve for the Department of Education. In particular, increasing 0.5% of Basque GDP in 2016 means increasing investment in education by 339 million, and the reality is that the proposed budgets under Education have increased by only 51. The Department of Education is one of the least growing departments this year (1.9 %, well below 3.9 % of the budget as a whole). And the worst thing is that this government is filled with the mouth saying that Euskadi is moving towards an education of excellence to ensure social balance, but at the same time we are presented with a budget much lower than previous years of the crisis: the investment for 2018 does not even reach the figure of 2009. So don't sell us that of the biggest budget the Basque government has ever counted on or the biggest budget in history. That's not true. At least it's not in Education. So we transferred it to the Education Advisor in the full past of control, asking her how it was possible to talk about the largest budget in all history, when in Education the 2010 figures are not reached, and the answer we got, I quote literally, was that "the contexts cannot be compared, and therefore the budgets cannot be compared". That's unfortunate. The increase of 339 million is justified, not unrealistic, as some groups would like to call it. And it is that, observing the evolution of spending on education, the weight of public spending on education in Euskadi on wealth has fallen sharply in recent years. It has increased from 4,2 % in 2009 to 3,5 % in 2018. Hau da, Euskadik % 3.7; Europak % 4.9, eta Danimarkak % 7.1. Euskadi Europar Batasun osoko bigarren postu kerrenean zegoen 2015ean, Irishrekin berdinduta, eta Errumania besterik ez zuen berge atzetik. 3.7% of GDP in Euskadi, 4.9 in Europe and 7.1 in Denmark. Ladies and gentlemen, the penultimates of the tail, overcoming only Romania. Now, we will decide who we want to compare with. Perhaps in this case, too, the Education Adviser says that public expenditure on education is not comparable, but the most serious thing – and we said it in full control, we repeat it in the Committee on Budgets and we say it again here today –... We are not only concerned about how much is invested, but also how and in what. And the truth is that these 2018 Budgets make it clear, very clear, where this government is taking us in educational policy. And it is that much of the little that the budget has increased compared to the previous year is – and I quote literally – "to boost the improvement of education through the expansion of educational concerts". And we insist: Does this government really believe that the best way to improve the Basque education system is by financing concerted education?, is strengthening educational concerts the way this government has its support for public school, Mr Pastor? Is this to ensure the social competition of this government, the perfection, the Beolaza, excuse me, Madam Newori? Because, apart from the level of investment, it is essential to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of educational expenditure. Yes, efficiency, something that the Government proposes is unable to measure. Because it's one thing to invest a lot in education, and another good thing to invest well. And this reminded us of the terrible results they achieved at PISA in 2015 in Euskadi. Yes, PISA, one more evaluation. Bai, ebaluazi beasts beat; bath, gaur egun, efference of an age bazter utzi ezin ebaluazi beat yes. Agerian PISAk utilzi zituen pointakozat zen hezkuntza-eredu baten itzalak. Eta, egia esan, hezkuntza-system indartsu bat ez da hiru urtean kolapsatzen. And it should be remembered once again that Euskadi is one of the territories of Europe that most subsidizes private education. We find ourselves immersed in a dual educational system in almost equal parts (48% private network, 51 public network); an educational system that walks at two speeds, which segregates. And it seems that for this government this is a normal thing, but that the private sector agreed in Euskadi welcomes about 50% of students, while the state does 32% and the European average 5%, does not surprise anyone? This situation fosters social segregation on the basis of income that moves to the workplace and possibilities for personal development, breaking the equality of opportunities. And as long as this situation does not change the school will continue to contribute to perpetuating social differences. And the situation does not change if you continue to do the same (Your amendment says so, Mr Pastor). And the situation does not improve if the privatization of education continues to be financed, if patch solutions continue to be proposed, and especially if this Government does not set as its main objective the design of the implementation of a definitive and clear project for the Basque public school. That when we talk about education it seems that they are afraid to talk about public school, Mrs Berriozabal, who do not mention it. Because it's not all Basque oasis and educational excellence. Different reports show us that this education system is stagnant, obsolete, and that it needs profound changes, not plans that make up reality. Hezkuntzako murrizketak ez will say gainitu, age aurrekontu hauek ez diete werentzuten hezkuntza-komunitatek eskatzen dituen to the prize. The cuts in education have not been exceeded, and the needs of the educational community are not met. Workers are not going to regain the previous purchasing power nor with the rise of that 1.5% of their wages. Today the kitchen and cleaning staff are on strike. Last Thursday, 86% of Haurreskolak's staff went to the streets. Next Thursday, special education workers will be on the street, who have been unsolved since 2003 and who are really making it possible, with their daily efforts, to build an inclusive school. On 30 November it will be the strike of teaching staff, and on 12 December all the educational sectors of public education united will go out to defend the quality of the Basque public school. In the meantime, the quality of education goes by lowering teacher/student or teacher/group ratios, reducing the high interinity rate, improving the working conditions of teaching and educational staff, involving the educational community in decisions that directly affect them, or stopping diverting public funds to the concerted network without previously meeting the needs of the public network. And all this goes by investing more in the public network, because the cuts are still being noticed in the classrooms, and in the classrooms there are also the barracks, there is a lack of resources and there is school segregation. In this regard, a popular legislative initiative was also presented in Parliament just two weeks ago to demand an inclusive school and address educational segregation, one of the most extreme forms of inequality in the Basque education system. It is an initiative that I recommend to you to read, because it presents relevant measures to put this reality close. Measures such as the elimination of public aid in elite centres that do not reach a certain index in the attention of students in social inequality; ensuring the freeness of education so that it is not merely a declaratory reality, and mechanisms are put in place to make it effective and deal with the phenomenon of illegal quotas; or the centralization of enrolment in single offices by area, among others. I don't know what you think, but I'd ask myself if this government is really doing something to enhance the educational system and strengthen public education, and we remind you that certain budgets are really social if they are really social, and not if they sell as social. " Los presupustos son realmente sociales cudo cubre las necesidades sociales, no cudo se vendos sociles." Finally, we have carefully read the amendment, now in sex with the People's Party, of the groups supporting the Government. An amendment of two miserable sentences, and I quote literally: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to present budgets that continue to advance in greater and more efficient management of resources for education". With the one that's falling, with the fall full of mobilizations, and you just say you're committed to staying the same! Precisely what the educational community is demanding are changes, real changes, profound changes. From Elkarrekin We can be clear: all efforts to strengthen the public network, the only option that can ensure social cohesion. But you clearly have all the efforts focused on staying the same. Listen to the collectives, and please stop selling us historical and social budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we read with interest the proposal made by Elkarrekin Podemos, and we will explain why we have not been able to reach an agreement with them and have done so with the groups that support the Government. Look, you, Mrs. Macazaga, have again included the word "inclusive" in your presentation. Everything has to be inclusive. And to me it draws attention that to a position that is absolutely exclusive, because you are marginalizing half of the Basque families, you call it inclusive. It also seems to me that they dramatize when they talk about two speeds, of segregation, etcetera, etcetera. Look, with a chant in our teeth, we'd give ourselves if half of the Basque population were rich! No, that's not true. Basque society is essentially composed of middle class, and the middle class chooses to go one place or another. I chose to send them to Ama Guadalupekoa, to the school of the parish of Hondarribia, because I am a believer and it seemed like a suitable place. And I assure you I didn't have a hard one, eh! That's something else, but come on. [[Barres]] So please don't make me that speech of rich and poor, because it doesn't represent reality. In fact, at the moment, in our opinion, there is a very wealthy minimum percentage of population, the rest is middle class at different levels, and what remains, a significant amount of which we must all be responsible for, are people at risk of exclusion, and of which we must all be responsible. But, thank God, the bulk of Basque society is made up of middle class, and the reasons one has for choosing the public or the private one I assure you that fundamentally they are not money, they are often close. I have here two comrades, in my group, who have gone to public school! Look at that, man! [[Barres]] They had the center very close to their house, very close to their house, and I think that's the fundamental reason. Well, let's keep digging a little deeper into your proposal. You talk about raising 5% primarily to the Basque public school. Look, we don't like linear increases. Anyone who has ever had to do with labour matters knows that linear increases are fundamentally unfair. In a company where there is a person who earns 1,000 euros and another who earns 50,000, if you make a linear increase of 2%, it turns out that the one who earns 1,000 euros raises the salary twenty euros, but the one who earns 50,000 euros raises the salary thousand euros. In other words, linear increases to us do not convince us, and do not convince us because they seem fundamentally unfair to us. I'm not gonna sing wonders from this budget, I'm not gonna do it. I agree with things you said, like 1.9%; that at the hearing the counselor was talking to us about 25% and I felt stupid, because I didn't understand what she was saying. In the end, one of his vice-advisors made it clear to me: the Department of Education's share of the budget as a whole has risen by 25% over last year. That was made clear to me by the vice-counselor, because he did not understand it, but, come on, it is no consolation, because it is true that it is 1.9%, and it will hardly arrive, if the general budgets of the state are approved, for the increases. I am not going to sing wonders of this budget, but what I am going to do, and we have already prepared it, are concrete amendments, not linear increases. And I don't encourage anything, everyone knows what they do and there is total freedom, but we certainly believe that it is what we have to do: in specific items that do not seem reasonable to us, make an amendment. That's gonna be our way. Departure to the game, and you know why? Because that is how we will carry out our mission, which is to control the Government. And you control the government not when you get it to have 5% more money, but by checking whether this item, for example that of infrastructure, which is very mutilated, actually gets it to be executed. I think I've already touched on all the themes I wanted to touch. I'm not going to spread anymore. We have supported, we are going to support the amendment that we have made together with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party (with the groups, better said), but, I say to you, not because we are singing wonders of this budget, but because our battle to improve it is going to be through amendments, which we think is much fairer. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u86	Good afternoon. Well, first of all, our first reference is not only to the hušan and kitchen workers who are part of the education community that have gone out of the streets today, but also to the laundresses and kitchen workers that are indispensable. A hug, a kiss, for the work they do for their rights and all the work they do to improve their educational system. Mrs. Bengoechea, I don't know if I understand you correctly. What did he say, that he's not going to tell, or he's not going to sing wonders of this budget? I think you go further, and what you do is support them, and it also facilitates them, which is your right, is in your free right to do as you please. But until then, I admit, you've made an effort, and that can't be denied. But once again, it is obvious that education, for you, is neither the priority nor the strategic principle. It is only to see the difficulties we have of reaching the level of 2009: We still have 60 million dollars left to get to the level of 2009. But everything is not quantity, but it is important for what and where it is directed. And the proposal you made on the literary table is also half recorded in these budgets, and it's not as full as it is. The squares continue to be irritated, and no consolidation is to be resisted. That's right, I admit, there's a budget for replacements on the first day. That's right, in Child and First Education, but in return, it's down in the Second Education. The right question: Will you be prepared to increase 60 million euros in the budgets of 2018, and to give that increase to the weakest and the most complex reality to direct the schools? Are you ready? For, as has been said, everything is not quantity, but wherefore and whither it is directed. And what we do not see on your side is the determination to face the hinges in hand; in order to repair the business of the public network, to resist the segregation, to strengthen education projects, to adapt to new times of language, to guide the inclusium, to ensure education access to equality, etc., etc., etc., etc. And if there's anything clear in the budget, that's what government strategy and direction are, because one thing is strategy and another is that it's strategic. But if I really see these budgets, I don't know what's the strategy of this government and what's the course of this government or what this government has. In fact, they're the budgets of a failed tracking process. They are a series of concertists, who look into the past rather than into the future, who concentrate the present state, and consequently penetrate into the education of two speeds, and deepen it in the segregation. So they have a direction? Yeah? No? What I wouldn't have thought is that this government would share the direction of former Secretary Wett, and that in so many decades the agents of this country, together with the government, seek to destroy the education system which they have built. I wouldn't want to think about it. And I don't even want to think, that he wants to become a privilege rather than education, right, by graduated steps, according to the home, according to the origin, according to the sex... I don't want to think about that. The budgets of 2018, like other budgets, like education itself, are an instrument for redistribution of wealth. And the budgets of 2018 show us what? Well, education is still weak and this government wants to be weak. And don't forget that he's based on Hezion, so that he doesn't want to break his addiction to Madrid. So, one question: Are these budgets useful to deal with the now existing careers of society? Are they useful? That's the question we have to answer. That's the question. And, as I said before, we must not forget education, budgets, nets... they are an instrument, we believe, for equality, an opportunity for cohesion, Mme. they are prepared to be cults, and seem to us to be going the opposite way. What we're doing is getting more and more crack through education. Therefore, in order to answer this complex society, which has been concluded by new times, we should first begin with a change of paradigma, because you mention that they have received a change of paradigms in the memory of the budget, but here you do not plan any change of paradigm. What does paradigma change mean? Well, every school, every school, is supposed to offer an education project, to give it... that he needs the means of his age. And this demands that each school should have distinct ratios (for all of them cannot be equal), different pro-podes require more, less resources, and not all need the same resources. So, Mrs. Bengochea, what we're planning is not linear. What does that mean? I don't know how often we've discussed this diagnosis, and I'm sure you've done it. And distribution of resources based on consequences. Well, for example, a Barakalal school must have a project of education and language, probably requires other means, compared with the Ordizian. What's that change about the chip? Well, this change of chip requires that the Board of Education, Delegations, Visions, renewments, and, just in budgets, you plan the opposite. Secondly, it requires steps to enable all students and families access to the education system in equality, that is, progressive perspective... Progressive view, Mrs. Bengochea. And thirdly, a strong wager for our own curriculum, for the contents, in pedagogical cultivations, methodology, in the form of teachers, in studies, if we wish them to be precursors. And fourthly, if it really be our aim to obtain a eucalycalal social number, it is a necessary change to understand the treatment of languages and the unit of education, because school, class hours, is not an isolated container. And that's what requires education for once to be included in external activities, and I know it's not all the responsibility for the school and the need for further complications. In short, to sum up, it all requires, Mrs. Uriart, to remove the iron suit you wear, to remove it from the confort-space, and to do things differently. And what cooks do in those programs we see on TV: experimenting, starting with illusions... In the end, to watch out for your education, and especially for the public network, to love, to admire, to watch over public education, is to admire, to love, to love, to admire, and really to preserve it. And that certainly will bring progress to our society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u88	Thank you, President. Well, today we are discussing the non-legislative proposal for the 0.5 % increase in education GDP in the upcoming 2018 general budget of Euskadi, aimed at improving the resources of the public network, presented by Podemos. In fact, this non-legislative proposal is not far from the motion tabled by the Bildu parliamentary group, which we discussed two weeks ago. It is basically the same, that increase of 0.5% in the general budget of Euskadi, or, as in this case, intended to improve the resources of the public network, and in the other case intended for the investigation of the UPV. I could be worth almost the same speech I made the previous time in response to Mrs Larrion's initiative. We find ourselves in the same case, or very similar. It is a question of setting a fixed amount in the budgets, regardless of what it is intended for (in one case to one thing, in another), and, as we said at the plenary session just two weeks ago, we do not agree with that fixed amount. Because we believe that whenever there is an increase in education budgets, it will be good for us, and I believe that the educational community will receive it in a positive way. What we cannot afford under any circumstances is for the percentage of education to decrease as the legislatures pass and new budgets are presented, because it seems to us that public education must remain the centrepiece of society. For us Socialists, therefore, the important thing is not so much the increase that is made, or the increase of a specific percentage or amount, but that these budgets that we always talk about are stable, regardless of who is in government. As I said then, that an amount should be set, and that any variation in the budget should never result in a decrease in the budget. And in this particular year – I said this in the Committee on Budgets when the Counsellor appeared – the budget is growing; it is true that it is doing so moderately, but it is growing, and it seems good news to us. And it seems to us also good news something that none of the previous speakers have spoken about: that a possibility is created..., a possibility not, a certainty that one will try to end the interinity between education professionals; that a work bag is created that will allow stability to the faculty. And that sounds like great news to us. That, along with the subsequent announcement of a call for up to 5,000 places (I think that's the figure that's set) for the Department of Education. I believe that it is not something I have walked, nor much less, nor that it can be ruled out, because, unfortunately, not in all the autonomous governments is the effort that this entails being made. I want to recognize Bildu's gallantness in recognizing that some effort has been made on the part of the department, well it is true that not enough. I can agree with you that there are things that need a wide margin of improvement, of course, but I cannot agree with that kind of apocalyptic speech that everything is absolutely wrong and that there is no possible amendment, because it is not true. There is always a margin for reaching a compromise that does not satisfy all parties but that manages to put education in the right place. What is true is that this initiative would be better understood in a context in which the budgetary procedure would have been completed and there would no longer be room for manoeuvre, but we are still at the right time, when political parties, which are now seen as opposition parties, can table amendments to the draft budgets that can be discussed. And I reiterate my invitation to both Podemos and Bildu, as well as the People's Party, to submit amendments to those matters or issues that they consider to be better or of interest to them, and to give priority to matters such as this one of education, to improve the resources of the public network or to research in the UPV, as was the case a few weeks ago. Because it seems to us that initiatives of this kind, in line with what we are up to, must first be discussed through amendments, before the adoption of the budgets. It seems to my group that at this time it is appropriate and appropriate to support the amendment that we have tabled jointly with the Basque Nationalist Party and finally also with the People's Party, in which we urge the Basque Government to present budgets that will continue to make progress in a greater and more efficient management of the resources allocated to education, because we understand that in order to properly plan the resources of the public network, a good budget is needed, in order to meet many challenges that public education has. And inevitably – in that we will all agree – the Administration is a fundamental pillar for the education system to be rich and strong. Probably everyone, I too, would like the funding that the draft budgets for public network resources in this case to be greater (I do not deny it, that is so), but I am sure that also the Nationalist Group and the Department of Education. But, as I said, the important thing is to establish a stable framework, and to do so we are committed to establishing it in an educational pact, in that educational pact which we have talked about, at least us, many times in the last interventions on the subject of education, in which all educational agents are involved. And I want to throw you here a proposal, or a challenge, as you wish. I believe that we must be able to all the political groups in this House, and also the Government, to make a commitment, once this great educational pact has been reached, as is the case in Germany for example, to never reduce resources in education, regardless of the budgetary changes that the general budget is going through. In education and research. And why in education and research? Because they are the future of this society and of any society that is valued. If we were able among all (we, all of you and also the Government) to set that political commitment for the future, I think we would have made much progress in improving the Basque education network, and especially public education. I want to ask you formally. And we must implement, it is true, policies that put Basque public education as an example and objective to be achieved, using effectively and efficiently the resources available, which are not few. Because we must not forget that this autonomous community is the one that spends the most per student, and instead we did not get exactly the best results in the PISA tests; that it is true that they are one more evaluation, but it is a thermometer to measure and know that there are things that obviously have ample room for improvement. And I think we must all work to improve those results, because, as I said before, investing in education is investing in the future of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u90	Thank you, Chief. Good evening, Presidents, chiefs and congressmen. This initiative that we are discussing is late, and at the moment it is meaningless, just like the amendments that all groups are putting forward in their day. In fact, this initiative we're talking about was recorded on September 25, when the Podemos, who knew that the budget project was already carved and that it was already in the middle of October and that it would reach the legislature. We're discussing the budget project almost a month later. So we don't think there's a long way to go. But, though he has no logic, this delay has a good side. In fact, instead of talking about the budget project, it allows me to talk about objective data or reality instead of intention or will, in order to talk about exact accounts: 11486,4 million dollars' budget bill is in hand, and 77% of that amount will be designed to fund public services. The Basque Government is acting rigorously, and it continues to address the priorities set out in the government programme for the provision of public services of a different nature, among which there is no doubt that education is of the utmost importance. And it is that, as Lehendakari Urkullu has said on several occasions, for example in the last general policy plenary, education is a country-wide challenge for the Basque Government. All you have to do is look at the amount of money you got on the budget, and the whole Christmas budget, to see that educational elements are a priority: It's almost 78 million euros that have the budget projects of the Board of Education, that is to say, 51,4 million, or 1,9% over the year; it's up to 51 million euros, the entire budget of the tax department is raised as much as the whole budget of education. The Board of Education, regardless of what you're talking about to annoy the debt, takes 26% of the entire New Year's budget. But apart from the increase of 51, 4 million euros on the bill of budget in 2018, as the chief physician said, the budget bill will be included. 38.5 million Euros, derived from the Confederation of the Economy Committee in Misto. What's that supposed to mean? The investment goes up to 3.4% and won't stop at 1.9. Or, in other words, he'll go up to 3,5, if we don't consider personal expense. 2009 eta 2010. urteekin konparazioak egitea zaletasun bihurtu da azken aldian Legebiltzar honetan – ekimenari beari eta zuzenketa bati begiratzea baino ez dago –, baina guztiok dakigu ariketa hori egitea alferrekoa her. Neither the economic environment in which the 2018 budget is contextualised, nor the budgetary context of stability and financial sustainability, make it comparable with the 2009 and 2010 situation. As far as they are concerned, they are not comparable situations or contexts. Euskadin hezkuntza arloan asko inbertitzen da, isugari! The truth is that investment by student in Euskadi is the highest in the Spanish state and is among the highest in Europe. This is reflected in the last report of the Euskadi School Council. It says: "One of the most noteworthy data is that of annual expenditure per pupil, since both in Primary, Secondary and Post Secondary and Tertiary Secondary in Euskadi occupies a prominent position compared to other European countries, or that carried out in other autonomous communities. "In relation to the latter, and on the basis of the data provided by the State School Council, the incidence of population dispersion is not determinative in Euskadi, since it is not high, because the student/teacher ratio is low, which increases spending. "There are certain indicators that correlate positively with this high investment; among them are the high school enrolment rates, the best state success and failure rates, low repeat student ratios, high rates of graduates and graduates, good equity indicators, good attention to diversity and special educational needs, prestigious vocational training, etc." But it's just as important to invest, or invest properly. We understand that in order to make progress in the quality of the system, something I believe we all agree with, in our case, it is not so much a matter of greater investment, but of deepening the more efficient use of our staff and resources, as international educational experts have repeatedly pointed out. The Education at a Glance report itself states that, in any case, higher educational expenditure is not necessarily associated with better results or the quality of education. Moreover, expenditure levels depend on many factors to be taken into account when comparing countries. The half-rational correction we have agreed on is in this sense: For this reason, the management of the resources which have been directed to education is more and more effective, while the pupil is always in the centre of the system, and the equality of social justice and equity. With regard to the specific amount that Elkarrekin We can intend to increase, as we are in the process of processing the budget, you can submit amendments worth 0.5% of the Basque GDP in 2016 (about 354 million), and tell us what you want to target specifically and what your priorities are. Do not forget to indicate where they propose to eliminate expenditure or investment for the same amount, because you already know that to put money you have to remove it from somewhere else. Eta gauza bera Euskal Herria Bilduren kasuan. Hezkuntzako aurrekontua igo nahi duzuen adina kendu beharko duzue beasts Sailen batzuetatik. Hortaz, hexaguzue nondik, eta proposamen errealistak eta egingarriak izango balira eta bieste lehentasun batzuk eta kontu batzuk kolakan jarriko ez balira –good, ba–, aztertuko genituzke. Another issue I would not like to overlook. Today we have had the opportunity to live one more chapter of this commitment and this obsession that you have with trying to face up to educational networks, and this attitude does not benefit anyone. Quite the opposite. You think you're doing a favor to some network, and I honestly tell you that I think you're harming the system as a whole. And we will not tire of saying this: our group believes in the system in its integrity, in the complementarity of the networks, and they will not find us in this attempt at confrontation. We understand that a balanced draft budget is being processed and that we believe it adequately responds to the main priorities of education. Mrs. Ubera said the direction of the department, the Education Department. The direction of the Board of Education is clear: It's been recorded in the government program and the government program is known to all of us a month ago. And the budget is a quantum statement of the government program. So here's the direction of the bureau, located in numbers. Eta Ubera anderek god aurrekontu hauek baliagarriak tell Herri honen the first weretzuteko? Oh, guk baytz usti dugu. The draft budget ensures sufficient funding for the department, so that it continues to advance in the fairness and quality of the entire Basque education system towards excellence, prioritizing such important areas as scholarship programmes to promote equality in access to education, the promotion of technological and pedagogical modernisation, the extension of multilingual projects, measures that promote greater balance, social cohesion, interculturality and coexistence in schools, the improvement of educational infrastructures (those we deal with day by day also in commission), the development of the Basque university system and of scientific and research policy. And for all this, because we know that you agree with these priority objectives set by this government, we ask you to vote in favour of the amendment, as well as of the draft budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u91	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the answers, together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u92	Thank you. Well, Mrs. Berriozabal, the memory of the budgets we've already read, it wasn't necessary here again. Mrs. Bengoechea, the poor-rich speech we don't do, you do. I haven't talked about rich and poor. We do have that illusion of the free choice of center, but families without resources cannot cope with a quota, which today that voluntarism is fictitious. These are mandatory quotas that families have to face, and Kristau Eskola has said in the press. But let's be sensible! These are quotas that, if the center is arranged, are illegal. And we have to deal with that, so that families can truly choose center. With regard to the concertation, we have no problem with the concerted school, Mrs Berriozabal, but we would like to know whether at some point a study of needs has been made, of which centers should be concerted and which ones should not, how far the public reaches and where it does not reach. Because, if the public does not arrive, it is also necessary to invest in public, and not to arrange the universe of centers; to arrange even private nurseries or baccalaureate, education that is not compulsory. And we do not understand these two networks as complementary; we do understand one subsidiary of the other, and that is clear to us. Mr Pastor, these are not fixed amounts; they are gradually recovering amounts prior to the crisis. And stable budgets... Does it seem like good news that they grow moderately even if you go to the concert? Because that's what the government has reflected! The Government said that this budget increase was aimed at the expansion of educational concerts. They're government words, I didn't say them! Your speeches certainly move me and convince me, but then I see no consistency in your vote, I'm sorry. And, Mrs Berriozabal, we agree, of course we need more money, but we can talk about taxation then. Don't tell me we can take it somewhere... We have to talk about other terms, too! Education in all its scope speaks, of realism... I didn't expect any other words, honestly. And, of course – the counselor said it couldn't be compared – you compare, compare with what you want. I have expressed some figures, and that is that in Europe GDP is 4.9; in Denmark it is 7.1, and in Euskadi it is 3.7. I mean, we each compare ourselves to what's right for us. But I would appreciate it if you would stop looking in the mirror, because the horizon that is seen in the mirror is the one that we have left behind, and if we want to move forward we have to remove the mirror, look around and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's see, the truth is, I'm in a difficult position. I'm in a difficult position for a reason. First, because I don't think this is the best budget possible. And we can start to give figures and data, etc., etc., but for example, in infrastructure, I would like to remind you that the infrastructure plan indicated for this year the expenditure of 54 million, and only 51 appear in the budget. That is why I tell you that I am not going to sing (sing) wonders of this budget. But what I'm going to do... And there is something else that makes it difficult for me, because I hear Mrs Ubera, and I even hear Mrs Macazaga, and, from very, very, very different ideological positions, in which it is difficult for us to agree, in concrete measures, in concrete requests, we could agree. But above all I have listened to Mrs Ubera's speech, and I say, indeed, there are things, from the ideological disparity, in which we could coincide. But what's going on? It is that you pose, in our view, a scenario of good and bad. Because because it's the concerted one is segregated, because the concerted one is little less than an abnormality, which is a privilege, which is I don't know what... That's a good and bad scenario, and we're never going to get in there, because parents have the right to decide – as we talk so much about it – how they want their children's education. And then they tell me about quotas, illegal compulsory quotas, according to you. Let us see, at the moment, the funding of the centres is 70% for the public school and 30% (gutxi gorabehera, because it can be 31, etc., etc.)... 30% for the concerted. I mean, there's no equality there! There is a right to decide, but the scenario is that 70% of the money goes to the public and 30% of the money goes to the agreed one. And not just that. You could tell me, "Oh, well, it's their thing." No! No! Because a concerted follows the regulations, the requirements, everything that marks the Education Council, just like a public. They're not private centers. A private center, with obeying the law in general, sufficient. No, no! The concerted centre is subject, like the public, to the guidelines, to the regulations, to the ratios..., to everything the Education Council asks, like a public. Then, of course, if there is such an imbalance in funding, it is offset by some things. For example, teachers' salaries. I hear you defend the salaries of teachers a lot in the public. And the teachers' salary at the concert, which is much, much, much lower? "Equal work, equal pay", we have heard that, but of course, if 70% is devoted to the public and only 30% to the concertee, it turns out that the concertee is in a really difficult situation, when parents have the right to decide the education they want for their children. And then to finish, Mrs. Ubera, you abhor me that I facilitate the budgets. Look, we only have a pact here, which is the pact with the citizens, and if it is good for the citizens to have a budget – and we believe it is – we will strive to have it. It is good for citizens, and within citizens for officials, who will be able to see their remuneration increased. It's good for everyone. It's good for infrastructure... It's good for everyone. Getting a budget is good. And by our pact with the citizens, which is not a pact either with the Basque Nationalist Party or with the Socialist Party, with whom on the other hand, as we believe that in general "to' er mundo e' gueno" (i.e. we do not see them as monsters), neither do we have any problem in agreeing with them. As we do not have it with you, because, I tell you, many of the things that you have said I would sign them. Well, we, if we think it's good for citizens to have a budget, we'll try to get it. Of course, we have our conditions. Why? That is precisely why, because our pact is with the citizens. It is not a pact with the PNV nor is it a pact with the PSOE. It's a pact with the citizens. But if it is possible to reach that agreement, it is not only a shame to make budgets easier: it is a pride and an honour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Gather EH, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u96	Mr. Pastor, we seem to have read different budgets. I don't know which one of them Mrs. Celaá will have analyzed. I would like to know what Mrs Celá's opinion is right now. Mrs. Newori, late? Still, to negotiate budgets, to commit amendments... We'll be at that point, won't we? I don't know if there's a choice or not. Looks like there's no choice. Mr. Pastor held out his hand to me for the deal. "Con la palabra de quien me tengo quedar?" Am I supposed to stay with Mr. Pastor? Am I supposed to stay with the big news word? Aquaí, Quiuén mule? I ask, in case. What I see is self-implence, self-inflancence, self-centredness, self-councency... Self-critic? The desire to improve? We must have a passion for improvement. The Spanish Government has already defeated us in the expense of education; this oasis is over. I don't know if we notice, but the oasis is over... And then what I don't understand... Of course, the budget has to be removed from here. If agreements really want and will exist, when the budget is dissected, you can come closer. We'd be ready with you to discuss budgets in time. And Mrs. Newer, not just 2009, 2009, 2010 and 11, and 12, and 13, and 14, and 15, and 16, I've got it. We'll check it out anytime. I don't have time to examine all that in five minutes. I don't know... I don't know why it's so hard for you to call it a free school without education violation. I don't know why it's so hard to break the chains with Madrid and leave them at ELMCE and Esscal LUMCE. Besides, when you have the full support of educational society and you will have it for that. Is it that hard? Is education so hard to design a story without a constraint? Is it that hard to break chains with Madrid? Is it so difficult to take a step in the negotiation plan to open the route in the literary table of education? You'll excuse me, but the squares are annoying because only 754 more squares are in the civil servant's plan. There's no planning, no planning for a consolidation process, only the Baby and First Education are raised by a bag of replacements, and it goes down to the Second Education. The data is clear. And we used to mark this legislation as a point of sophistry for the education system, and especially for the public education system; In 2017, we lost our chance, and even in 2018's budgets, it looks like we could lose another chance, but we'll try to put the suggestions on the budgets of 2018 on the table. And I wanted to take advantage of this second shift to talk about the amendments we have in mind, and it's no doubt about the plan. To direct an strategic plan for the transfer of generation, because we're going to lose a human capital, and here there's no strategy really to plan the change of generation, to face the provisional, to resist the weakest schools, to resist complex realities, to increase the planillas and to descend the ratio. We plan to put an end to two-speed education, not only in the room, but in the outside stages; we must go deeper in the progress of the schools; the transport must also be strengthened, because the transport reduces, not only to the sub-structions... To restructiate the form of the teachers, strengthen the autonomy of the schools, change the dining-room pattern, because it has been years, without causing us to change the pattern of the restaurants. Four project pilots from the start, and we're stuck there. That's what you do, and then you're selling incredible fancy campaigns around the nutrient, around healthy habits of life, but then there's no bet. There's no bet... What else? Parazian Baby School. In education and children, it's shown that there's a bet in these budgets, but the Child School has been an exception, because the Child School has been the biggest loser in these budgets. About the evaluation, what do we say? And college. I don't know what's going on with college, but that's a huge challenge. And I brought in the proposals of many other amendments, but I've finished my time and see, Mr. Pastor, whether we have a chance to do anything. But if you show your will to-day, because once and again, we have brought the builders to the Board of Education, and we have received only one answer, negative, and closeness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Pastor, Basque Socialists... They don't have to take the word. And Eucabertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u98	Thank you, Chief. Well, they're still making comparisons with 2009 cheerfully, and we've already told them they're not comparable. But if I did the exercise that you intend to do I could tell you that in 2018 a higher percentage is invested than in 2009, and that is that, by deducting the debt, the draft budget for 2018 represents 2,716.8 million euros, 26.70% of the total, compared to 2,634.89 million in 2009, which represented 25.45 of the total. And this exercise doesn't work out for you. For something it will be. Therefore, let us not strive to compare situations and contexts that are not comparable. Let's get out of the way and talk about objective and contrasting issues. I repeat: It's as important as investing a lot in a decent way. And I say again that we understand that at the moment, with the degree of investment we have in Euskadi, in order to move forward, it is not so much about greater investment but about deepening in more efficient use. And there are many factors that impact on the quality of the systems, the systems in general, are many and varied, and to me comes to mind one that Mrs Macazaga mentioned earlier. I used to talk about hot autumn. By the way, the temperature that was going to be from September to December was already anticipated by someone in the spring, before sitting down to negotiate anything. Objective data relating to staff, which has been mentioned so much here: there is an increase of 1.8 in the number of staff; there will be a public offer of employment that will enable the system to be more stable; sufficient guarantees for the contents resulting from the negotiation of working conditions that is being carried out with the different groups at their respective tables; fifty more places of work staff for students with special educational needs; replacements from the first day also in Primary, in addition to in Infantile (3,800,000 euros for this). Ratios. Not only have the ratios not changed, but the ratios collected in the 2010 labour conditions regulatory agreement agreed with the trade union representation apply. Other objective data: educational innovation actions, 2,982,000; educational infrastructure, 41.2 million; school transport, 25.1 million euros; 300,000 euros more for student transport with special educational needs; school eaters, 26.6 million euros (90,000 diners per day); non-university scholarships, 57 million. And so we could continue: university scholarships, 26 million; Basque university system, 41.3 million; research, 47 million; ESS Bilbao, 1.535,000 euros. And yes, Mrs. Ubera, I said it's late; it's too late to bring this initiative and discuss it. In fact, what is required here in the initiative is that there is an increase in the budget bill according to the JPG. I have also said in my first speech: it's not too late for you to correct the numbers. Now it's time to file budget corrections and raise 351 or whatever it is, you tell us where to put them and where to take them. What if there's a choice? You asked earlier. I think it's been said from the first minute to the end that there's an opportunity to open the negotiations. There's been a meeting with the parties this week to start negotiations. If I'm not mistaken, it was just to celebrate today a meeting between EH Collector and Joy. But what a coincidence! Yesterday there was a meeting in Manuel Idier of Gastery. I don't know the criteria from this meeting where your legislative team came from. Our team is at least ready, as far as the budgets are concerned, to introduce the corrections you present for that amount, because we have no doubt that those millions of people who are now predicted will be able to strengthen and improve the universal educational service which is now offered. And now that you're in a lot of trouble about what you're talking about, I'll ask you to vote for the budget project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u99	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u100	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscalia Socialeists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucousists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u101	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of the Euscal Party, about the common trial management of the Justice Administration. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulus, representing the American Basque Group, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Last October 18th, the Chairman of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, Mr Ibarra, appeared in the Committee on Labour and Justice, and we all took advantage, apart from the matter that brought him to the committee, of questioning him about different aspects of the justice system that we have in the community. And then from our group we asked him the question about his opinion on the coexistence of nine procedural systems in seventeen autonomous communities. He transferred us that it was a further obstacle to the implementation of the electronic file within the justice system, and a problem to work and to communicate with other autonomous communities, even within the Autonomous Community itself in the daily activity, even with the auxiliary justice agencies (with the police, with the juvenile systems, with social welfare, etc., etc.). It also echoed at that time a series of conclusions that they had had at the days of presidents of higher courts of justice that had been held at the beginning of October of that year in Oviedo. And in the same sense, the twenty-seventh conference of dean judges from all over Spain, who had met in Bilbao on the same days (on 15, 16 and 17 October), also called for the creation of a common procedural system, and reiterated the request they had made on the same days in 2016. What's the problem? That in 17 autonomous communities we have nine computer systems – to put it mildly – of processing information to work and communicate between the courts, between the auxiliary agencies and the courts with the prosecutors, with the judicial police, and between different judicial bodies. Not only from different bodies, not only between provincial hearings and courts of different minor bodies, or between provincial hearings, higher courts of justice, the National Court, supreme courts or the European Courts. This makes the work of all justice actors extremely difficult, and in the long run it places a major burden on citizens, because the main problem they face is the delay in the decisions of judicial files. When they go to court, what they need is effective, efficient and, above all, swift justice. This coexistence of different procedural systems makes justice much slower. In the same vein, all the operators of justice have spoken out. The various associations of judges have done so, the various professional associations of prosecutors have done so, as have the General Council of the Spanish Bar Association, the superior body of the prosecutors of the country, and in the same way the representatives of the officials. And, thus, in the last days that UGT of justice held in Madrid in 2016 required all the competent governments to create a single procedural system that would facilitate the work of all the operators of justice, in order to get the citizens to have a cheaper, more effective, more efficient, simpler, and above all faster system. It's very important that it's cheaper. By having to coexist different procedural systems, each of the autonomous communities that have competence in this matter, such as ours, has to invest huge amounts of money not only in the creation, in the study of the creation and implementation of these procedural systems (our Justizia Bat and our Justizia SIP, which exist in other autonomous communities), but also in its maintenance. Maintenance that has to support all technological developments that are occurring day by day, which, at least at user level you will know, are continuous. There are continuous updates of hundreds of programs, hundreds of supports, which involve stopping these platforms with which our justice operators, our judges and officials have to work day by day. In order to prevent these problems from arising and increasing the administration of justice, and to prevent this money from being devoted to other more interesting and urgent functions, we have put forward a non-legislative proposal in which we urge the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to cooperate, together with the rest of the autonomous communities with competence in this area, in the elaboration of a common procedural system. A common procedural system that serves to interconnect all courts and auxiliary agencies throughout the country, since we have a single judicial system, and that, in the same way, that system allows us to connect with other justice actors, such as the police. It is not surprising to take a walk through a guard court early in the morning and to meet with the officers of the autonomous police or the agents of the local police, who under the arm come to bring on paper the attestations, because there is no possibility of sending them telematically and that the recipient can reuse them to use that information again, so that he does not have to load all that data again, which involves hours and hours of work for all the justice officials of this and other autonomous communities. That is, a single system, a system in which all agencies, all workers, and all those who work with justice from outside (lawyers, prosecutors, experts, etc., etc.) can be connected. That is the intention of the motion that we have tabled today, which is going to mean significant economic savings and the achievement of faster, more agile, more comfortable and more effective justice, and to achieve one of the objectives that this Government has set for us, which is the final establishment of the electronic file in the courts. An electronic file that last week, or this very week, we were told by the Chief Prosecutor of the High Court of Justice who is an entelequia or a dream, with which they have, since they all have to work with paper files, on which they work physically, and with electronic files, with which they work on the computer, and in the case of prosecutors with a double electronic file: the one that comes from the court, and the one that comes from the Public Prosecutor's Office. In other words, for the drafting of any type of initiative, they have to work three times: on paper, in the case file of the court and in the case file of the Office of the Prosecutor. That's a delay. We don't have enough personal means so we can waste our time tripling the job. It is a complaint of professionals, both judges and prosecutors; it is a complaint of officials; it is a complaint of lawyers and prosecutors. And I understand, ladies and gentlemen, and for that I request the support of all groups for our initiative, so that it may be a savings for public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In the turn of the teams that are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u104	Mila esker, Tejeria andrea. Good afternoon to all the women parliamentarians. From Elkarrekin We understand the need to unify the procedural management system, because it facilitates communication and helps us to comply with basic principles of coordination, cooperation and re-use of solutions. However, establishing a single procedural system and centralizing all management is not the only demand made by professionals to achieve excellence in our justice system. Recently, the judges of Spain, at their XXVI national day, when they prepare the diagnosis of the main problems of the Administration of Justice, demand improvements, and, while they admit that we have a good judicial system, highly guaranteed and of high quality, although not very agile and poorly endowed, they also consider that justice works poorly, that its organization and functioning does not meet the demands of an advanced society, that with the means at its disposal it cannot effectively fight corruption, and that all governments have always had more interest in controlling it than in providing it with the means to optimise its functioning. Professionals call for a state pact on justice in search of the effectiveness of judicial work, which strengthens institutional independence. They call, among other things, for collaboration between the different branches of the State; a long-term investment plan, beyond a legislature, to provide the Justice Administration with essential means; an increase in the judicial plant that places us in ratios similar to those of the countries in our environment; measures to avoid litigation, without implying any breach of the right to effective judicial protection; a new judicial map that must be modified with the opinion of the board of judges. They also consider it important and inescapable to improve, centralize and specialise the system for the investigation of goods and the creation of specialized common services in implementation. They also suggest that this task be carried out by the State Agency of the Tax Administration, under strict judicial control. They call for the process to be adapted to the guidelines developed by the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of consumer affairs. Therefore, from Elkarrekin We also believe that all the computer systems of the different autonomous communities must be compatible, and therefore we proposed in our initial amendment the realization of a participatory process, whose objective is to achieve a system of procedural management that can be adopted by all the administrations, both for which they had not so far assumed competence in the Administration of Justice and for which they have done so. Thus, from our point of view, the system to be implemented must address both its interoperability and the freedom of those communities that have already invested in their own systems that function to benefit from another common one or not. But also for a process involving actors and professionals who form the justice sector, because in the end it is they who suffer or benefit from the quality and effectiveness or lack of them in the systems. In recent months, the State Government appears to have collected the glove and is moving towards the implementation of a single procedural management system, after receiving a report from a technology consultant. We understand that this measure is framed by the re-centralizing trend that guides your policy, which in the field of justice is not an issue that comes from now. Already in 2011 there were presidents of several autonomous communities governed by the PP who either renounced the transfer of the jurisdiction of justice to them, or pronounced themselves at their high cost, a position that in the eyes of a part of the collective working in the sector has been understood as a lack of interest in assuming competence to provide services to citizens from which they do not draw electoral revenue. Similarly, this decision has been negatively assessed by some autonomous communities, which have been very critical of the above-mentioned report, and have been reflected in the allegations that have been referred to the Ministry of Justice. No agreement could be reached at the last sectoral conference, and two opposing positions were very clear on this issue. It is essential for us to unify criteria, coordinate and cooperate among all communities. However, the single procedural management system would only be possible if jurisdiction over this matter had been reserved for the State at the time. This reservation would have been perfectly justifiable, as these softwares are the B side of procedural rules, which by definition fall within the competence of the State. As we know, this was not the case, and each autonomous community with transfers in the management of material and personal resources of the Justice Administration has the competence to choose and implement its own procedural management system. The system may have its drawbacks, but, among other things, it also brings to citizens the perception of how governments manage services, and thus facilitates the perception of how and how good or bad we use the power that is attributed to them through the ballot box. If the Ministry of Justice is to ensure that the entire administration of justice operates in the same procedural management programme or system, it will have to convince the different autonomous communities to pull all the investment made in the exercise of their competences for the creation and development of their own procedural management system, together with all the work and effort employed in its implementation and in the adaptation of personnel. Procedural management systems of their own that usually work quite well, and that should now be abandoned to support a single programme initiative with many uncertainties, because it is a futurable one that, although it is to be realized and that requires another major investment of money and time. We think it reasonable for communities to resist changing a reality that works by a mere promise that something said is better, but cannot be guaranteed. There is a history of cooperation developed on the same basis, based on collaboration agreements between communities, that meet the required interoperability criteria and that have been able to integrate within the system of procedural management itself, without having to have a program for each thing, all the utilities necessary for the work in the organs, units, judicial and fiscal offices, from the recording of views to the integration of the prosecutorial program, through the electronic signature or the conduct of acts of communication and presentation of writings and documents in a telematic way. Which the ministry has so far not achieved by far with its multi-program complex (Minerva, LexNet, Fortuny, etc.). With this scenario, in view of what the ministry holds, it is reasonable for us to allow the autonomous communities to choose their procedural management systems, whatever they may be, already exist or have to be developed, provided that they meet the established interoperability criteria. The management of change is also important: the involvement of the direct users of the programmes, especially the judicial staff, is as important or more important than the programme or programmes chosen. Perhaps the problem is not so much the distribution of competences, that sometimes it can be seen as a simple "quite yourself to put me on", but that so far very rarely there has been a real intention to cooperate and cooperate. However, from our parliamentary group we believe that there are much more friendly and effective ways of working, starting from concepts such as cooperation or collaboration, not only from the institutional level, but also asking users and agents who will have to work in these systems every day. That is why our proposal is based on unifying systems, yes, but on reaching an agreed system, so we welcome the flexibility of the amending groups, which have negotiated with us to try to include this proposal from our group in the compromise amendment that we have agreed on. If we have to lead something, let it be a participatory process, in which each autonomous community can share with the others what has worked for them and what has not, listening to professionals and users, seeing how to solve the problems of transition from the current systems to another common one, and, as Euskal Herria Bildu's initial proposal, which is not only compatible in the State, but also at European level. But it would also be interesting for the content of the Gartner Report to be shared officially, beyond the Sectoral Conference of Justice, to analyse what premise has been achieved, how each of the procedural management systems have been evaluated, what unique procedural management programme is proposed, whether it is newly created or based on some of those already in operation, and why it is chosen for one solution or another, as well as the opinion of the autonomous communities, especially those who do not share the content and conclusion of the report. And, beyond this interest, we believe, like the Independent Trade Union and Civil Servants' Centre, that the report should be public, for several reasons, ranging from its public funding and its direct relation to the functioning of the Administration to reasons of coherence, in order to be able to study it. Because if we really want to achieve a great pact or national justice strategy, as it is now called, for the modernisation of justice, there must be an open and transparent debate about everything that has to do with the process and its reform. In short, from Elkarrekin We can always bet on collaboration and cooperation, and that is why today we have presented, together with the Socialist Group, the nationalists and EH Bildu, a compromise amendment which I hope will come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Protect the representative of the EH team, Your Honor, Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u106	Yes, good evening, and thank you, Your Honor. Well, it's true that when we talk today with the people and people who work with justice and justice, we see that we really have different tools for work, and that when we use these different instruments we also use different languages, that is, when we use informals, things are not the same, and that's what's happening at this moment. Yo dirno que hablamos idomas different informicos, y eso, Ephivamente, entiendo que un problema. It's a problem. Those who have spoken before me have explained what system they are: In the Spanish Common-wealth, LexNet, the National Judence, which is but a different system with LexNet, in this community of Justice, Justice, SIP, Navarrean, another of Santander, another Logroño... I mean, there are a lot of things, and it's true that there's no complicity between them all. And I agree that it must be settled, and I agree that this must be changed, and I agree that it must be improved. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I agree, we have to make changes, we have to improve, but the question is how, and starting from what. And that's where I disagree with you. Because what you propose to us is to do everything from another system, leaving it to us, and I think that is neither convenient nor necessary at this time. Because it would be to make what we already have disappear, with the expenditure that has already been made in this Autonomous Community to do what we have. And it's true that sometimes it happens that there's a great deal of trouble, when we're in different kinds of systems like this. And sometimes it's chaos, when things fall, when there's trouble, or when there's no way of communication. And yet sometimes, when the service is in force, it has been shown that it is very easy to get into it, and that it is a chance, even though it is not a lawyer, do not work inside justice, look at the files, enter those files, and break their confidentiality. We've seen that, we know it's here, and we know that we have to fix it. And I think that's what this proposition is about. But this proposal... I think there's something important for us, and that's what we have. What we know is that it's proven that it's not enough on the side of possibilities. But that can change and improve. Even what we have seen is that sometimes it falls, but that can be improved and changed. It is true, too, that there are problems with different screens in order to work, but it is true that those who know say that this is a very good system, then what we have to do is improve and do this with other systems. What for, Mrs. Garcia? And I share with you all your intervention, almost everything, but there is one thing I do not share with you: you have stated here that so that this judicial system that has Spain, which is good, then, remains good or better. Well, I share with you that Spain has a judicial system. The only thing I share is that, that it has a system. That it's good and that with this we're going to improve it more, that I no longer share. I'm gonna stick to that part of your sentence. But I do believe that what we can do is improve this issue. And that is why, when we saw the consensus proposal, we thought that it was really good to agree on those terms, basically because it does two things, ze guretzat bear inportanteak direnak: keep from the daukaguna eta daukagunetik joaten garela gauzak hobetzeko. Eta hori yes, gure ustetan, egin behar dena. Eta bastetik, wastetutako dirua eta hor dagoen dirua tentzen delako, hobetzeko hobetu behar dena. Horregatik, Euskal Herria Bilduk, bai esan dio transakzio horri, eta bayz esango dio. Baina ez Bakarrik horregatik, beste arrazoi bat dagoelako: Euskal Herria Bildu when he makes his proposals always tries to do them with a vision of the future and from a global perspective, and the proposal we have agreed also brings, apart from everything else, these two conditions. That is why Euskal Herria Bildu will vote in favour of this compromise amendment. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u107	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u108	We are closing this afternoon by discussing a proposal on the procedural management system in the Administration of Justice, a matter which I told the proposer, before entering this plenary, that I would like us to discuss without entering into a competition with regard to the benefits or errors of the different systems that currently coexist in the Spanish State, or on the basis of a competition title issue. I mean, let's see if we're able to take the speech to something more practical and more entertaining, because, given the hours that are... We all share, and those who have come out have said, and surely the spokesman of the Nationalist Party will also do so when he comes out behind me, that the implementation and use of new technologies in the administration of justice, in relations with citizens and with legal professionals, what we call or have called the zero role, improves the efficiency of justice and, therefore, strengthens citizens' effective judicial protection of their rights before the courts. We share it, Jone said it too. We share the view that the modernisation of the administration of justice is necessary, and that it helps to improve management and improve efficiency. We all know that there are ten systems, if we count that the ministry has two (it usually has two), and we also share that it is necessary to move towards a common system. In what we no longer have so much agreement, and we have also seen throughout today, it is that this convergence we see in a different, different way. Because socialists do want to walk towards a common procedural system, but that common procedural system, we understand, is not unique, but it is a procedural system that has to be based on the interoperability and interconnection of the different applications that already exist today. And with this goal already in 2011 the socialists approved the Law regulating the use of information and communication technologies in the Administration of Justice, in order to define already in a norm with a rank of law the minimum requirements of interconnection, interoperability and security necessary in the development of the different applications were necessary to guarantee that electronic processing that we defend so much now. Because it's true... I believe that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has said that one of the objectives of this electronic processing is the issue of cheaper justice. It will allow me, with the background we have with the People's Party ruling in the Ministry of Justice, and the Judicial Fees Act in 2015, which lifted all legal operators, not to have much confidence that that is really the intention of this procedure. I want to think more about it as an issue of effectiveness and efficiency, and not so much about the subject of the economy. We do not share that there is only one application. And they also ask us to support this proposal which you bring and which you are putting forward in the different autonomous parliaments more as an act of faith than as something else. Because we are asked to support this process, first of all, so that the Ministry of Justice, which you know and I too, and we will not put it here on the table, does not have a very successful record in this matter. Secondly, it wants us to support an application that has no known planning or cost yet. And it also asks us to forget for all this everything we have done so far in the different autonomous communities, and in this case in particular in the Basque Country. For me it's a lot to ask, it's asking a lot. And I wonder why now, why we are asked to do so now, and the only thing I was able to do is that the ministry has commissioned a report to the (keep with it) "greatest technology consulting company in the world", which is how the consultant begins the report known as the Gartner Report, which must be the name they have, that I thought "These must be from Bilbao, because you have to be great-great to define yourself as the best consultant in the world." The truth is that bad start has the report, because you know it, and so do I, that you even want to analyze the ten existing applications. There are only seven of them, and because it incorporates the two of the ministry, the one that is currently in the manufacturing process, as I say, in the design process, and the one that is implanted. It doesn't even analyze the procedural system we have in Euskadi, JustiziaBAT. And of those who have analyzed, curiously, rejected as compatible, remain as compatible (curious, curious) the one who commissioned him... Whoever pays for the report turns out that it's the one with the compatible system, everyone else doesn't have the compatible system. That's funny. And what has caused this report is that allegations are made by all the autonomous communities, which have been analysed, the truth, and honestly – I have read it myself – not very deep and based on a series of judgments that in my view lack a rigorous analysis for what is needed in this matter. You know, and this whole Parliament too, that the Counsellor of Labour and Justice, Mrs María Jesús San José, has set herself as a strategic line the achievement of a swift justice, with a clear bet on the applications managed by the Directorate for Modernisation of the Judicial and Fiscal Office, and that she has undertaken to draw up a plan to boost the e-government for the Administration of Justice that we will be pleased to know the brief. We commit ourselves with our citizens to promoting a management system that is already developed and implemented but is yet to be completed, it is true, and they have also said so in advance, and it is the line of work that we are going to go through. We do not start from scratch, there are different computerization plans that have been put in place, that have always had the maximum consensus among all political forces, and that have also had the support of the unions, to bet on a system of their own. In which we have invested, and all know it, many financial and personal resources. This is not only a matter of money, but also of adapting to the system and of confluence in its application. It is an integral and integrated system, which seeks to follow the rest of the systems that are already being implemented. It is an application that works with only database, to avoid errors and improve efficiency and agility, and that connects not only Prosecutors and judicial bodies, but also other specialized services that have been mentioned here (such as that of autonomous or local police officers with Justizia Pol; lawyers, prosecutors and graduates, which here we know very well also, that is Justice SIP), and that will be extended to other groups that have also requested it. And, actually, I don't think they can ask us to back them up and throw all this away. And it's a throwaway, because you pulled out of the speech that Mr. Ibarra, the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, but he perfectly explained to us a few days ago what he also understood that we didn't have to throw off the edge. And he told us, and I quote him textually, that "the ten management systems do not communicate with the necessary agility, and that is the underlying problem, so that as long as the convergence of these systems is not achieved, that two of them are from the Ministry of Justice but eight others are from autonomous communities, convergence to a common space, until that is achieved, we will continue to have problems. But why is it difficult to reach that common space? Because the investments that have been made in each of these ten systems are very powerful investments, and there are part of those investments that are going to be useful in the common system and other parts that are not going to be. And then always the tension and temptation is 'So let's go to a unique system and make a clean table. A single system is established and the entire administration of justice is implemented.' Logically, it is inviable," he concluded. I therefore believe that the transactional to which we have managed to reach between Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu, the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party responds somewhat to what we have been explaining in this rostrum. We want to continue to develop our own system, our Justizia Bat, until its complete completion; we want to defend a common procedural management system, but based on interoperability, collaboration and coordination, and we want logically also to put sufficient resources, both from the Spanish Government and from the Basque Government, so that this project becomes a reality. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons to all. At this last point in the order of today, the Euskal popular team brings us a "type" proposal about the common process management of the Justice Administration. I have to say, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that, after reading the justification for your initiative for the first time, it seemed to seek an end to be taken into consideration, but this first impression changed substantially after reading it again. And in this it also helped quite to read its operative part, where it attributes to the Government of Spain the exclusivity of the design of the model, without taking into account the other autonomous communities with competence in the matter, this autonomous community and eleven others. And it was also significant to see that the same literal initiative, word for word, and in a short space of time, of few weeks (various in particular on the day that the President of the High Court of Justice appeared in this House), in particular in La Rioja, Valencia and the Canary Islands, his comrades of the People's Party before the appearance that seems to give rise to this initiative had already presented these initiatives in their respective legislative chambers. As I say, it has been presented by the People's Party in several of the legislative chambers of the autonomous communities that have assumed the transfers of personal and material means in justice. As an example, ten days ago this same initiative, identical, was rejected in the Parliament of Cantabria with the votes of the Socialist Party, Podemos and the Regionalist Party of Cantabria. He told us that the origin was Mr. Ibarra's appearance. Well, as seen, we're not so clear, Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo. In view of this scenario, I must confess that the words recently spoken by the Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, in Bilbao, came to my head unintentionally. And all of this caused me many doubts and suspicions. It is clear that this is an initiative that comes from above and is part of a clear strategy of the Spanish Government. Notice, the popular spokesman in the Courts of Aragon (I believe it is called Mr Ledesma), in an oral question to the Government of Aragon on 22 September, told him that it was a national strategy for a single procedural management system. Unique, that's unusual. If we go back to the appearance of the Minister of Justice at the Congress of Deputies last December last year, to explain the general outlines of his department, it made clear that this was a challenge of this legislature, at the same time that he recognized that he had no competence for them and declared that he would not impose anything on the autonomous communities that he did not want. Despite these statements almost a year ago, this is a worrying initiative, as has been mentioned here, for the re-centralizing trajectory of the People's Government and for the very recent words of the Minister, barely ten days ago, to which I referred earlier, and of other people's spokesmen. Furthermore, this proposal was already put forward in the appropriate forum, at the last Sectoral Justice Conference held on 26 July, and, as you know, it was rejected. The key to reaching agreement on this matter is not in its proposal for a common or single procedural management system, but is in the second paragraph of its justification, where it literally says that "the commitment to a justice of the twenty-first century must be respectful of the institutional design of which we have been endowed". In order to achieve this, we have to take into account Article 149.1.5 of the Constitution; Article 13 and above all Article 35(3) of the Gernika Statute; the actual decrees of transfer in the field of the administration of justice, where the computer means appear explicitly; the judgment of the Constitutional Court No. 56/1990 of 29 March, which interprets the scope of Article 149.1.5, by approving the autonomous powers in the field of the administration of justice and recognizing at the same level (important: at the same level) both powers, the State and the autonomous, in this field, and finally Law 18/2011, adopted not by this Parliament but by the General Courts, which regulates the use of information and communication technologies in the Administration of Justice, which is based, as you know, on the ideas of compatibility and interoperability of systems and applications, and which makes no reference at any time in its articulated to a system of common procedural management nor much less imposes it, but precisely the contrary, and also creates a collegated body to enable this necessary compatibility and interoperability between the State party's functions and in the present form. For all this, and without entering into other assessments, which system is proposed, how it is financed (you have spoken of a savings, which will entail a significant savings for this community; if you can quantify it...), what has been the experience of the systems used by the Ministry of Justice... I say, without entering into this assessment, we understood that the initial approach of the People's Group was not at all respectful of the institutional and legal design in force. And that is why we, with the Socialist Group, are tabling an amendment in its entirety. A comprehensive amendment based essentially on the development of our own procedural management system and on the commitments made by the Basque Government in this area. In Euskadi, as you well know, since the late 1980s successive governments have made a great effort from a technical and economic point of view to move towards an efficient management system. Professionals have also made and make an important effort, not only to implement the system, but also to work day by day with the Justizia Bat system, which is a dynamic and constantly developing system. And this very week we were able to see, in the presence also in the Committee on Labour and Justice of the Senior Prosecutor of the Autonomous Community, how, in addition to explaining some problems, which cannot be denied, the recent implementation of the Basque procedural management system in the juvenile jurisdiction was positively appreciated. We are not prepared to give up the competence to be able to equip ourselves with a system of procedural management that meets our needs, nor are we prepared, as other autonomous communities will not be, to throw away all this work developed specifically in Euskadi during the last decades for the implementation of a system of procedural management of its own and specific. We are aware of the need for these systems to be compatible, but this, as I say, does not mean that all the work done so far must be put to the ground. Orrain, lan hori jarraituz, Eusko Jaurlaritzak, Lan eta Justizia Sailak, legealdi honetarako konpromisoa hartu du, system modern judicialarekin, azkarrarekin eta eraginkorrarekin, gertutasuneko Justiziaren eta koordinazio judicialaren eredua sustatuz. The Basque Government, as Mrs Castelo, the Department of Labour and Justice, said, has committed itself for this legislature to a modern, rapid and effective judicial system, strengthening the model of justice of proximity and judicial coordination. For this reason, the government agreement between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party includes, inter alia, the commitment to complete the process of implementing information and telecommunications technologies, and the implementation of interoperability between the systems of the Basque Country and the rest of the procedural management systems operating in the State and in Europe. To strengthen this work, the Department has established the Directorate for Modernization of the Judicial and Fiscal Office, which is developing the e-Justice Administration's momentum plan. Horregatik guztiagatik, Justice Bat kudeaketa prosesaleko defendzea system proposedzen dugu guk, Statu osoan system bakar bat ezartzeko aukeraren aurrean. Justizia Bat is a representative of the state-recognized procedural management computer system. Euskadi, in addition to being a pioneer, has always been leading the computer tools and their standardization in view of this necessary interoperability at the state level, together with the General Council of the Judiciary. We are engaged to encourage a system of inspection with our people. This system is developed and established, but we need to finish and improve. We want to get on with this business game. And this defence of our own specific system is no obstacle to us also being able to defend a system of common, but not unique, procedural management that respects our system for the whole state and, as I said, even at European level. A compromise has been reached between the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group with Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu, whom we thank for their support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing the answers, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u112	Thank you, President. I'm going to start with the last intervention. Mr Zorrilla, I am very glad that you read a first, a second, and even a third time the initiatives, because many things are learned. And I also recommend that you read a first, a second and a third time my speech, so that you can find the true meaning, the literal meaning of the words that I have spoken here. I have not spoken of a single system that makes others; I have spoken of a common system. And if the best of the systems we have and the most compatible with all the others, and the one that works best, it is JustiziaBat, that all the autonomous communities adopt it. I wouldn't have any problems, and I'm sure the Ministry wouldn't have any problems. And indeed, by reflecting on Mr Ibarra's words, we should set up a committee of experts to set aside the political vision in this matter, and to look for the issues that work well and those that work best in both systems that are working right now, and of all of them to seek the creation of a system and funding for a system that is common and that is global, Mrs García. Indeed, we are thinking of a vision for the future and a global perspective, and of cooperation and collaboration, but it is that cooperation and collaboration are not only of your group. It's that it's an obligation for all public administrations, like efficiency, like efficiency... They are rules that must dictate the functioning of the administrations. And here, in this case, it's not in breach. Because what is not being breached is the law to which you have referred, Mrs Castelu [[sic]] - No, no, no, The third additional provision of Law 18/2011 stated that there was in fact a four-year period to work on interoperability, and nothing has been done, no one has put their will. Why? Because systems aren't compatible. Just for that. The amendment that you have tabled to us, the agreement of very good will that all the groups have brought to us this afternoon, is an oxymoron: we cannot work in a common system, and we can maintain ours and finish implementing it. Why? Because in the future, in that global world that Mrs García said, that system does not work, because the others cannot connect. Mr. Zorrilla, you read a lot about interventions and initiatives, but I recommend you talk to lawyers and prosecutors. We have the best system, the most prestigious... By the way, Mrs. Castelu [[sic]] , welcome to praise this system, because when Mrs. Belto, at Mrs. Mendia's hand, was talking about this system, she was saying genuinely barbaric things, and you should check out the hemerotheque and see what was happening with that system that now defends with so much ardour and with so much affection. Mr. Zorrilla, if you talked to lawyers and prosecutors you would know that the procedural system we have in this community is only suitable for an operating system, Windows. It's not for free operating systems, it's not for Apple, it's not for Linux. I don't know what the Basque Competition Authority will think of that, but it's slashing the market for operating systems. And you can only access it from the oldest and most obsolete internet search engine, and therefore the least secure one, which is Explorer. And that's the best system and the one we're going to export to the world and that's a reference..., you said a reference all over Europe. He said everywhere. Okay, but what we want is a system that is a European reference, okay. For we create a system to generate a common (not unique) procedural system that takes the best of all that are working in the different autonomous communities, and in this way, in effect, we will be able to reduce costs. How much? For, look, in the barbarity of money that has been spent on this and other autonomous communities to create a system of their own that has not just worked well, which does not serve well for those who use it, in the opinion of judges, prosecutors, lawyers, prosecutors, officials. That's the savings we're going to be able to make in the future. We are talking about a project not a year or two, but five or ten years, in a much more global world and in a much more interconnected world, for which the systems we have now are not worth, and in the long run we will have to create a new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not take the word... Meet EH, Madame of the Highland, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u114	Yes, Mrs. President, please leave this place with your permission. And just to ask Mr Ruiz de Arboulo a question. You have now given the details: you said why you didn't accept it or rather what you told us was that we didn't understand what you said. And what you have told us is that what you are proposing is a common system. So, the question I'm asking you is, if that's the case and what you're asking is not incompatible with the "own" that all the other groups have signed, why when we introduced the word "own" you said you didn't sign? That's the answer you haven't answered, and then the conclusion is that you didn't want that. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u115	Thank you, madam. Castelo, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u116	Well, I don't know why you wanted me to euskaldunize the name, or I don't know, or asturianize, I'm not very clear. I'm Castelo, it's simple. "Castelu" no, Castle. I mean, Gaztelu anyway, if you want to get a little bit more autonomous, but good. You tell me common system, and then you tell me that system is one for all. Well, that's unique! That is, common: one for all, which is what you say, one to distribute among all, that is a unique system. And, actually, I don't know if you want me to believe me, or you want to make everyone believe that right now, and with the advancement of technologies that are getting over each other day by day, it's technically impossible to make systems compatible. It has been absolutely compatible with everything, and you and I have talked about this at other sites, but I do not want, at the moment, to be buying arguments from computer lobbies, computer auditing companies, computer maintenance companies and computer programming companies. I don't want to. And I am convinced that the technical deficits of interoperability, and the improvement of any existing computer system, can be overcome. And the truth, I don't know, they told us and they spoke to us with a certain ardentness of the state agency, but what the law of 2011 has is a state technical committee, it is not a state political committee (and it is defined in article 44, state technical committee), in which they not only appoint members the Ministry of Justice and the autonomous communities, but also the General Council of the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, there are other legal operators there. And I, in fact, have not flattered..., come on, anyone would say here that I am exalting the JustiziaBat, the JustiziaSIP or the Justizia Pol! You and I know, as well as other parliamentarians, how it has worked and how it has improved the functioning of Justizia SIP, and if we don't say so, we wouldn't be fair. What's left for him to do? Yeah. That sometimes he's got flaws? Yeah. But what are we taking steps? Well, too. Well, too. And I don't know about you, but I do get the point of thinking about migrating to a completely different system, because every time we adapt to a system, when it gives them the chance to change it, the process of implementation and adaptation to it is a very important cost that is often not valued. Therefore, I think it is better that we become a common system, but for me the common system is that we all go to the same place, and not that the same place welcomes us all. Basically in that sense. And since we are very much at the end of time, and there is no reason to exhaust it, what we have done has been to deal with the rest of the groups in which we have managed to know what was common and unique, or common and own. And, therefore, we will not support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. And in the end, Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u118	Thank you. I am left with two things that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has told me about the literal sense. Well, yeah, I heard him, and I heard him. In addition to reading him several times, I have listened to him very carefully. And he also told me not to keep the political view of the matter. I think this is the Basque Parliament, I think it is a political chamber, and other interpretations can complement it, but I think they go beyond that. That's why I was telling you, regarding the literal sense and the strategy behind all this, that... And I am going to go literally to the Diario de Sesiones del Parlement de Cantabria, where its spokesman says it is "a nonsense", he says it is "a nonsense to which the current competition framework has led the Administration of Justice in terms of technologies", and he also says that "a project that must have a vision of the State, overcoming the particular circumstances of each administration, and prioritizing the common as opposed to the particular". I have also told you before literally what Mr Ledesma said in the Courts of Aragon: "National strategy of a single sense of procedural management". His spokesperson for La Rioja said that "since efforts to improve the interoperability of the nine current systems are not working, we propose a change in the strategy to establish a common management system, so that there is a single system in all administrations and in all courts." I will not remind you of the words that Mr Catalá, Minister Catalá, said at a conference, but I will read an official reply from the Government to a question from the Socialist MEP Mrs Robles, who says that the Government, through the Ministry of Justice, "is studying the possibility of moving towards a common system of procedural management that is capable of overcoming the concept of interoperability in order to achieve that of integration". Therefore, I think the literal sense is very good, but the ultimate goal must also be to see it behind the literality. Man, and let you, a representative of the People's Party, come and teach us about systems, about the functioning of the JustiziaBat system... We recognize the mistakes, we've told you before, and the room for improvement, but... We spoke earlier about the meeting of the Sectoral Conference on 26 July; for the next day, as you know, on 27 July, there was a security ruling of the LexNet system of the Ministry of Justice, a platform for the exchange of judicial documentation, which left virtually all the documentation of any judicial file uncovered. Be careful, therefore, in assessing the Basque system. And I will end with an assessment of this national strategy, which we do not do, but I have found, of the Judicial Association Francisco de Vitoria, which says: "For the Judicial Association Francisco de Vitoria, the ministry is announcing a goal that knows, or should know, that it is impossible to achieve in the short, medium and long term. It is not only that to achieve this goal it must necessarily count on the autonomous communities that have transferred competences in the field of justice, that is, that the ministry speaks of a project that involves competences that are not their own, but also these, the autonomous communities" – as we said before – "have been making strong investments in their own computer systems for years. The only national computer system is a chimera." That is why we intended to develop our own procedural management system, which has room for improvement, and work on compatibility and interoperability with the rest of the state and European systems. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of the 9; the contrary, 60; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u120	So, not allowed original text. Next, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH, and the Euperarians, shall vote for the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the Teams. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of 60; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-11-16.u121	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and six in the afternoon.
