ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, tell them the seventh point is left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, a distant confession made by U.S. E.A. P.S. P.I.S. P.P.S.I.S. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u1	Chief of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We propose a model of education based on the basic rights necessary for life in the Jeltzai Party. By repairing the problem in real situations or contexts, and by active methods, mathematics, science, or technology, and at the same time learn to encourage and study language's hands, to act, to live, to live, and to communicate. Even so, the eucalycan education system in the context of evading the system and studying education, allows all the basic resources, both indirect and discipline, to perform procedures and tools. In addition, the euscal education system wants to be its own system of evaluation, a strict, trusted, continuous system, which gives information and objective data to know what its condition is and what its development is. The curriculums of Euscadian Autonomy in Erria have brought a view of education by competition, and proposed the output profile of the students. That's where it comes in to get basic competitions that belong to each stage of education. Through these outward diagnosiss of evaluation, all schools have acquired detailed and comparative information about these competitions: both official languages, English language for communication, mathematical competition, scientific competition, social competition, and popular learning. On the other hand, during the last few weeks, we are considering a series of opposite attitudes, co-operated in the course of the year and half of this year to the tests designed by the ISEI-IVEI in conjunction with the innovations, and certain previous attitudes against the development of the ballje-probs. For all this, this is my question to you today, Mrs. what is your opinion of the modern evaluation system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. I mean, if it's my friend, Mrs. Uriarte has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u3	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. From an integral point of view of education, there is need of resistance to the quality of the euscal educational system, and it is necessary to promote justice, social surrender, education of values, respect for multiplicity, and freedom of thought and belief, as well as the defence of human rights and multiplicity. In this sense, it is a premise which in the course of the nation admits of all education units, that without evaluation it is impossible to construct a high-quality education system. This is why we can know the features of a certain reality, the strengths, and the weaknesses of a certain fact, and consequently determine what is necessary. The improvements of the school and the preparation of our students must certainly be the axis of every effort. The main responsibility for Euscadian education system is to have a sharp, reliable, continuous evaluation system. This responsibility has started significantly in the course of the last decade, and this is why education system has made significant progress in the culture of evaluation. When records of evaluationgnostics and results have been sent to the schools, they have become instruments of interior and debate. The different evaluations carried out over the past 15 years have contributed greatly to this widespread development of the evaluation culture. Through these evaluations, all educational establishments have been able to obtain detailed information on their progress, and have received their respective centre report in each edition, which has enabled, together with internal evaluations, the continuous updating of the centres' improvement plans and actions. In this sense, it may be remarked that the innovation of our modern curriculum has been added. For the first time, he gets the student's output profile. This is, and at the end of each stage, the student defines the degree of knowledge which he ought to acquire. This innovation, to know whether they get the mark marked by our students, demands an evaluation. The evaluations we designed ourselves: In the sixth grade of high school and fourth grade of high school. These evaluation tests, which we piloted during the second half of May in thirty primary sixth and sixty secondary fourth centres, will allow us to design evaluation tests that will provide us with information on this exit profile. Baina aipatzekoa da azken aste hauetan zenbait kontrako jarrera ikusi dugula pilotage-proveen garapenaren aurrean. I have to say that the pilotage has been implemented as planned, without problems or with small incidences, in sixty-three centres, while in the other twenty-seven centres there have been problems and it has not been possible to apply, except to a very minority of students. In this regard, I would like to express my gratitude to the educational community, students, mothers and parents, teachers and the departments of the centres that have collaborated in carrying out this necessary pilotage to articulate our own evaluation system. But, together with that, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to denounce the many possible pressures and manifestations of harassment that have taken place in some of the centres, where it has not been possible to work normally and which have substantially altered coexistence. We ask for co-responsibility from all educational agents. School alone can't. As I committed myself in December to various educational agents, following the piloting of these tests we will develop our own evaluation system that responds to our educational model. That is why I am committed to working with educational agents from September, with the start of the new course, to determine our own evaluation system. Because that has always been our way of working, since dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the World, Land Planet, and Housing Division of Maddalens, concerning the right to decide." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u5	Congressman, good day. Mr. Arriola, good morning too. Now they all say you're sanchists on the left of the PSE-Euskadian, there'll be exceptions. And Mr. Sánchez, once before, but now again, I don't know if he says he's a nation of nations, a nation of nations. The map of the results he has produced seems significant to me in that sense. So I wanted to ask you if, from this experience, you're in a state of government with the Jeltists of the Eukical Party, you're in a position to decide whether the agreement which you think will be possible for you in order to update the government, between the two parties and the other political forces that we'll defend in this Chamber of Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u7	Mrs Iriarte, the answer to your question is that the Government and this councillor respect the Parliament's agreement of 26 January, by which the groups created a self-government paper to reach the agreements to update our self-government while respecting the legal order. This is an issue that was already reflected in the government agreement signed in November by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. And as a representative of this party I refer to the position you already know, because it has been registered here since January last year. I repeat it, because it has not changed: the socialists understand self-government as the most appropriate tool to organize coexistence in plural societies, to ensure respect for the differential features between them and to manage the public services that guarantee social rights. And we believe that procedures, dialogue, consensus and legality are as important as content. We want to build a future for Basque society by strengthening our institutions within the framework of plural Spain and within the framework of the European Union. This is my position as a socialist. The Government's task is to respect the will of this Parliament to build consensus for this updating of self-government while respecting the legal order.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u9	Mr. Arriola, you often mention self-generacy, but then you mark it from the outside and say what you want to happen in this self-organization. In any case, Mr. Arrian, I only expected to tell you the truth, and I am very careful to tell you. In the Government, you profess consent, you make use of consent, but you refuse to obey what the majority of the parties have declared, and what we have promised, which is 21th. in the sixteenth century the daily life of the people, as you say, "about eating and eating" is to decide the everyday and the future, and to be themselves in the midst of this dispute. That's what you don't like. In that sense, no news, Mr. Arrian. And no news, it's called Good News, but in this case I'd say no news, because they're the news. For, as the formulas have hitherto been proved, and you cannot prove others. It's happening in Europe, it's happening in democratic countries, and you look at it differently. You look elsewhere, and you, who so much say that we put ourselves behind the banners, you tomorrow are going to put yourselves behind the banner with UPN, with PP, with Vox and the Falange. With Vox, and the Falange. Caste not; dandruff, Mr. Arriola. And several euphemisms you use: a cultured nation, I don't know what nation, or as the philosopher José would say, "gasion potato." But even the nation has its definition. The ancient article of the International Covenant of Civil and Polytic Rights, is that all nations have an elective right of self-determination, and by this right they are freely supplied with economical, social, and cultural development. If you admit that a nation exists, you must necessarily accept the right of determining its citizens. Let euphemism, for they hide eternal Jacobinism. And you know too that you're going to take a walk, that there's more people on your side, and that if you don't take a walk, the usual formulas will always give us answers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Jeltzian Party told us that their hands were free in this matter. They must certainly be free if we are to arrive at something and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u11	Mrs. Iriarte, I don't know where the news of what Pedro Sánchez could have said is. Pedro Sánchez didn't say anything he didn't say ten years ago, Rodriguez Zapatero being president of the government. As a counselor, I have already told you what the position of the Government is. As a socialist – and so we have written – the concept nation poses no problem to me. We live in a world with 194 states and more than 2,000 nations, and, as the Council of Europe has pointed out, the claim as a nation of a community that defines itself as such for cultural, historical or linguistic reasons does not presuppose the political right to form a state. As for the right to decide, the Basques already exercise it every day within the framework of our self-government. The Basques decided, and we decided a lot. See if we decide, that by having our own taxation and collecting our taxes, more than 90% of the collected remains in Euskadi in order to be able to finance the own competences that we have at the level of the community. Another thing is self-determination, which is what they ultimately hide behind euphemism "right to decide". And what worries me fundamentally is that we are able to define how we shield social rights in the reform of self-government. That's what worries me. And as a Democrat I will defend that citizenship be consulted on the agreements that we reach its representatives, always following the rules of legality. And as Basque I will remember that when we have gone better it is when we have been more able to agree with each other and also with the rest of Spain. And so it has been possible to form this autonomous community, to develop our government, to have public health and education, and to develop income guarantee income, Ertzaintza, EITB or the normalization of the Basque. And I'm telling you this because my party, whether it's government or not, has always participated in those consensuses. The left abertzale, despite having had seats, did not use them for that. Now you have the chance. We will meet if what they want is a more useful and secure self-government for citizens, and we will not meet if what they want is to imitate Catalonia and lead Euskadi to the precipice. That's why they don't count on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz together with the staff of Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the refusal given by the Board of Education." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u13	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Uriarte Sailburua, a few weeks ago the Delegate of Education of Araba communicated to the management and AMPA of the Aldaial school the refusal to facilitate school transport for the next course 2017-2018. The centre's management, at the request of the AMPA, had requested school transport for 27 boys and girls who have to travel more than two kilometres a day to move to the school, located today far from the plot where the final infrastructure will be built. The Education Delegation has not motivated the answer given to the parents of the school, so we ask you the following question: What is the reason or reasons behind the refusal of the school transport service to the students of Aldaialde? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u15	Mrs. President of Parliament. Mrs Macazaga, a neighbor of Gastei Wides, a neighbor of the College of Children and College of Education, is divided into two districts of schools. This distribution takes place for two basic reasons. In the first place, the width of the neighbourhood is extended to the south of the radians, and, on the other hand, the north of the neighbourhood is close to the schools in which the students of the place are bound to go to school. The area between Oto Avenue and the railway line belongs to the second school district, located in the third school district, from 2014-2015 to the south of the railway. This information I've been describing was approved by the Board of Education. The administration, the management of public schools and compacts, the unions and the representation of unions are represented in this commission. At the same time, in that part of the district which is spreading, the examination of the schools which are to be needed in the middle of the mid-term, the Board of Education asked the Gastine Council to leave a new land. A new plot for building a new college of Children and First Education, for a school that will take three lines between 2 and 12 years. In this sense, the plan for the rehabilitation of the neighborhoods of Zabalgana and Salburua of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which implies the approval of the changes to the General Plan of Urban Planning approved at the time, has substantially changed the number and dimensions of the plots intended for educational equipment. Once the future location of the centre, located in the school area 2 of the Zabalgana district, families living nearby applied for a place in the centre, even though they knew its provisional location outside that area and had centres in their area of influence at a shorter distance and with school places. However, in order to make it easier for families wishing to enter the centre, it was envisaged that they could be barred with five points in the current Aldaialde centre for the course 2017-2018, being an option (in no case obligatory) for families to take advantage of the new centre or to go to the centres in the area that really correspond to them. Centres located in your area, within walking distance and with available places.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u17	Yes, thank you. At present, given the incompatibility of working and school hours, the transformation of family structures, or as in the case of Aldaialde, where girls and boys have to move to temporary barracks away from the final location of the centre, where boys and girls will spend half their school life and where there is no public transport, we need to make regulations more flexible and seek solutions. In fact, the legislation itself already covers exceptional cases. From Elkarrekin We believe that it is necessary to carry out an analysis of the situation of schools and the school transport of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in order to detect these kinds of needs, concrete difficulties that go beyond the regulations, and to find a solution, which is our responsibility. We know of other problems that have been dealt with in other institutions this week, such as the Institutes of Agurain or Laguardia. As I have already said, the same rules in Article 6.2(e) of this Decree state: "Exceptionally, and without requiring the fulfilment of the distance requirement referred to in Article 5 (c), provisional authorization for the use of transport may be granted for reasons of special difficulty in movement arising from the location of the centre and taking into account the educational offer available in the area, subject to the report of the commission referred to in Article 12 of this Decree. Exceptionality shall be explained and reasoned, indicating the specific reasons on which it is based, and shall be reviewed annually." That is to say, it is out of the question, but they are young children who have to travel four times a day over two kilometres, that is, over eight kilometres, and with the characteristic climate of Gasteiz. This is temporary until the centre is set in motion at its final location and these children cease to be displaced from their reference area. There is no public transport line that can be used by these families and can be moved to the centre. We cannot allow the little forecast of your department when designing school needs in young neighbourhoods to become daily punishment for families. School transport, Mrs Uriarte, should be seen as part of education, not as an assistance service. An education that works on the benefit of the use of collective transport, for example, to our environment, or the use of the resources derived from that taxation that they will teach in the centers and that can go to this type of services. This is also educational quality, and, as I said, evaluable. And I'll see you Sunday at the Basque public school party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u19	Mrs Macazaga, in relation to the forecast, I refer to my first intervention. Take care of it. According to Decree 69/2015 of 19 May 2015 on the transport of pupils from public non-university educational institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, financed by the department responsible for education, Chapter 2, Article 5 of that Decree shall be entitled to the transport of pupils who fulfil, inter alia, the following fundamental requirement. In the Teachings of Infant Education and Primary Education, that the domicile of registration is found in the area of influence of the center and this is the closest to the mentioned domicile of all those whose respective areas of influence encompass it. And in the Teachings of Secondary Education, it is the center that corresponds to it because of the itinerary linked to the center in which it would have had to finish the Primary Teaching and is the closest to its home to those that are part of the aforementioned itinerary. It is therefore not possible to derive from the exercise of this option the obligation of the Education Administration to provide school transport to a freely chosen centre. In fact, as an administration, we are necessarily subject to our own rules, which therefore constitute a guarantee of the principle of equality. And it is that a different treatment of these families, in accordance with an option freely assumed by them, would lead us to an at least unequal application of the transport decree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that of the members of the Basque Socialists of the Environment, Land Planting, and Housing Department of Housing, to renew the plots of the Order of the Land. " Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Counsellor, over the past few weeks a number of days have been held relating to the revision of the DOTs, days of citizen participation. A review that was already started there by 2015; a necessary review clearly, in response to the economic, social and cultural changes that we are experiencing. A review aimed at adapting to new situations; a cross-cutting review to address global changes, to address new challenges and to provide an adequate response. DOTs are a fundamental instrument that will enable us to meet these new challenges and achieve a much greater cohesion and territorial balance in our Autonomous Community. As I said, a number of days have taken place in the three Basque capitals to address different aspects, such as city models, sustainable mobility or the natural environment as an investment for the future. An instrument which, of course, is of dubious importance for our citizens to know and participate in this review. In these three days, the progress of the DOTs has been presented with the contributions that have already been incorporated, and discussions have also been held on the most important thematic aspects of the document, in order to promote, as I said, the discussion and collection of new ideas by citizens. At the same time, and for the same purpose, there is also a process of participation on the website of your department. Therefore, in view of the holding of these days and the status of the revision of the DOTs, I would like to know what assessment you make as a consultant to the Department of Environment, Land Management and Housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, what we wanted with these days was to incorporate new points of view into the document of progress of the DOTs, beyond those collected so far. And the balance sheet is frankly positive. I'll give you some data. In the three days, 397 people participated, who in turn represented associations of neighbours, cultural, youth, elderly, disabled, business, professional colleges, trade unions, feminists, environmentalists, universities, Parliament and general councils, Basque Government, deputies and municipalities. I want to thank all those people for their participation in those days. There have been many issues that have been put on the table and that will undoubtedly help us to make a more calm second reading and incorporate some of the above-mentioned inputs into the document. Without being exhaustive, I will expose some of the most relevant. The first, that the guiding thread that the document should guide is the consideration that the territory functions as a living and therefore changing system. And together with this is the view that it is not good to fall into overly millimeter planning. It has to be a document that allows, based on a strategic country approach, dynamic land management that is able to adapt to change. The second is to put comprehensive territorial planning at the service of people's well-being; to put people in the centre of the territory. In addition, our strategy has to consider, in line with what is recognized in the new urban agenda of Habitat, the law of the city with all its implications. It is a right to equality in the use and enjoyment of cities, fair, safe, healthy and accessible cities. And this leads us to place emphasis on urban regeneration, on the stake to improve the built city, rather than on growing. A comprehensive regeneration that should pay attention to the problems arising from energy poverty, health, active ageing, energy efficiency, universal accessibility, and social inequalities in degraded and ageing neighbourhoods and areas. Climate change has also taken up an important part of the debate. The evidence, the impacts and the solutions have to have their territorial reflection and thus ensure the resilience of the territory, not only in the city, but also in the rural and natural environment. The main objective of planning is to reduce the uncertainties of the future, and solutions need to be designed not only for climate purposes, but in terms of health and environmental, social and economic sustainability. Green infrastructure, both urban and rural, and above all the intermixtures, the idea of the rural, the green, invading the urban, have also played a leading role. And it is that, in addition to serving as the enjoyment of citizens, these infrastructures play a fundamental role in water management and also in reducing the risk of flooding. Finally, another growing concern is the transition to a circular economy-based model to minimize waste generation. And in this sense the DOTs will also have to deepen in this respect. I was wondering about my assessment of those days. It can't be more positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Javier Ruiz de Arburo Cerio, "about the legal assistance of the jurist of Job and Justice." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs. San José, the past... I believe that it was, by an agreement, adopted by the plenary to provide material and human resources for the office to ensure the realization of the right of all citizens to free legal assistance. The question we bring you today is very simple, framed in time: From the beginning of your mandate to today, what has been done to ensure that this service works effectively and decently? And from now on what plans do you have, what steps are you going to take to get the agreement that was made in this plenary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, all good days. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you ask me for an agreement by this Parliament which received the unanimous support of all, an agreement whose point 1 has two content, two content which is complementary. One would say principles, expressing adherence to the duty of attorney and to the right to free legal assistance. And another cash, so that with economic and personal means the provision of public service is ensured. He has no doubt that I, as a councillor, as well as my department and the rest of the Basque Government, fully identify with the two contents of the agreement. In the Euskadi 2020 document, which is the government programme for this eleventh legislature, there is a section called "A quality justice", and one of its initiatives expresses textually "Guarantee access to justice for all citizens and, when required, ensure access to free justice". This statement, Your Honor, is based on the view that ensuring access to free justice is a guarantee of equality before justice, because we see it as an essential public service. To this end, we are going to improve and adopt reforms that are necessary in the provision of the service, with regard to both the applicants and the professionals of the shift, including the revision and improvement of the working and procedural conditions. You are well aware that this government spends more than 14 and a half million dollars in this year's budget to finance free justice, which accounts for 42.7% of the Directorate-General for Justice's budget. This amount ensures payment to professionals on duty, operating expenses and continuous training of lawyers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u28	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. San José, nice words, but you haven't really told us anything. I have asked him about the measures he has taken so far, and he has told me what the government program is. I asked him about the steps he is going to take from this May plenary and the agreement that the House has taken, and he has continued to talk to me about the government programme and that the system will be guaranteed and carried forward as it is working. But the specific measures I was asking you for have not answered them. I hope he does it in the second round. I am going to ask you more specifically: What about the decree that Mr Erkoreka, here present, has already negotiated with the bar associations in the last legislature, and which was left at the expense of completing the administrative procedures for approval by the Governing Council? You've been in the government for more than six months, and I don't think the bar associations know anything about that decree. You say it's already done, and it's already negotiated, it was all over, but it's not getting started. We have in force that of 2012, which was a complete disaster, to say of the technicians who had to work with him and of the professionals of the office, who are affected, amen of the bar associations. Your Honor, do you know how much a prosecutor charges for a full ordinary procedure ( attendance at hearings, processing of the claim or answering the claim, of all procedural acts until the end of the sentence)? Less than thirty euros. Does that seem worthy to you? Not to me. Do you know that for a contentious-administrative lawyer a lawyer of the turn of office receives approximately three hundred euros, which comes to be more or less 10% of what is charged on the market to a person who is not of the turn of office? That doesn't seem worthy to me, I don't seem to dignify the system with those prices. Apart from the decree, what you have to do is to update the modules contained in that decree, so that people who work professionally in that service – because, of course, for money they do not, because they are paid very badly – see the effort they make for the citizens dignified. There are several thousand professionals affected by this issue, but it is that there are hundreds of thousands of citizens who are affected, because they are the users of this system. We are not talking about a problem of four professionals, not your honor; we are talking about a problem that affects many citizens. If we want decent justice, not only does the shift have to work properly, but it also has to be well-paid. You have to pass that decree, and you have to increase the modules. The Finance Advisor told us that thanks to the quota negotiations there will be more remaining in the budget for this year. Pick him up a little bit, counselor. Take money, extend that line that you say is enough, that if Mr Erkoreka said that there was more than 14 and a half million of that money, it is because no one had told him that it was necessary to charge more. Get money, increase it, and pay better the compensations that professionals who perform the service deserve. And please pass that decree quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u31	I am pleased, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, with your concern for free justice, since you are the spokesman for a party, the People's Party, which was about to inflict serious damage on our system of office and free justice through an initiative of the Directorate-General for Taxes which intended to declare duty-free. As we all know, fortunately that gap is overcome. I can also announce to you that, in our desire to improve free legal aid, we are dealing with that regulatory decree that you have spoken about, and I want to tell you that the draft has been consulted, agreed and agreed with the professional colleges involved, with which we maintain continuous and fluid contact. And I hope that at the time of its publication it will have the support of all the sectors concerned. It is in administrative processing, and we expect its publication to be early in 2018. The objectives we have set ourselves are based on the need to incorporate legislative changes in recent state reforms. On the other hand, we want to make the system more flexible, creating a commission of assistance, of follow-up, which will be composed of representatives of the professional colleges involved and of the Department of Labour and Justice. We want to simplify and reduce management burdens for citizens, lawyers and free legal aid commissions, and, finally, in our decree we pursue maximum agility and efficiency in management. We will continue to cover the costs of the system, and there is no doubt that we will put in place the appropriate budget lines to ensure this. In short, my aim is to ensure that no citizen of this country ceases to have access to justice for lack of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u32	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the law of the Popula team, made for environmental, Planting, and chief department of the Hohouse, in accepting the resource of three conjugations against the river Zaia." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors. Counselor, I ask you on behalf of the People's Group for the three-metre-high dam by 3.5 kilometres long that URA intends to run on the Zaia River. They now call it "a flood prevention project in the surroundings of Foronda Airport". Ten years ago it was called "project framed in the arc of innovation". Today it is not clear what the real goal and the real dimension is. You hope you tell us. What we do know is that in these ten years no one from URA has been concerned to present the project to the neighbors of the affected villages, to inform them (Gereño, Uribari, Estarrona, Mendoza, Legarda, Mandojana, Artaza, Lopidana, Martioda, Hueto Arriba and Hueto Aba). Nor to users who own the land concerned (about 300 hectares affected). Lack of communication and transparency has been total. The High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has admitted to the proceedings the contentious administrative appeal brought by Gereña, Uribari and Mendoza against the dam of the Zaia River. And the question is, Mr. Counsellor, whether it is the Government's discretion to create a dialogue table between URA, UAGA, Sprilur, City Council of Vitoria and administrative boards to review the project of the dam and propose a new one to remedy the shortcomings of the current one, thus guaranteeing the interests of the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u34	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, as usual, the Basque Water Agency has no problem meeting with the administrative boards you mentioned, with the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz, with UAGA or with Sprilur. With all these agents you have held and hold meetings on various topics, including the project you mention. And, of course, URA has no objection either that such agents or some of them discuss with each other aspects of any kind about this project or any other. But in any case, Mrs López de Ocariz, before setting up or convening any table to review the project and – as you put it in your question – to develop another one that addresses some supposed deficiencies, we should first believe that such deficiencies really exist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u36	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u37	Counselor, we're talking about a project designed by Sprilur and URA ten years ago that today is meaningless. They called it "project framed in the arc of innovation." Today it is difficult to explain a new industrial polygon in that area. In the surroundings we have Miñano, five kilometers away, or Jundiz, with enough space to house industries. A polygon that requires a filling of land, all this along with the infrastructures: it gives us a result of 27 hectares of polygon, but an occupation and condition of 250 hectares of soil of high agricultural value. This is unsustainable economically, socially... It does not go beyond the agroforestry plan, for example. No environmental impact report has been completed. Now we are told that the industrial polygon does not. And the deputy general of Álava said in October at the General Councils of Álava: "I do not believe in that project that was developed, which was raised years ago, of VIAP. I don't believe in him. It seems to me that Álava, that Foronda, needs availability of floor with access to tracks, but that project does not." I don't know what it looks like to you that the Álava Foral Diputation stands out. Has the Álava Provincial Council informed you that you don't believe in the project and that you don't want this project? Because what the deputy general of Álava said is that the project of the dam is only to protect the airport. It is urgent to protect Foronda. And the question is, if it's to protect Foronda, is the solution the dam, or is there another solution? Because, if there's not going to be VIAP, what's the point of that project? The deputy general said: "Even so, I understand the concern of the neighbors, of course I understand it. And I don't think there's been enough information, of course I do. I think that the process by URA should have counted more on the administrative boards, of course I believe. There must have been a greater sensitivity to the joints. Perhaps we should have explained to them more from the beginning what the project consisted of and how it wanted to develop." He also said that he was very concerned, because it must be ensured that the airport continues to operate in an emergency. We must have been forty years in precarious. Counselor, I ask you, please, to tell us if the Álava Foral Diputation has informed you that it demarcates from the VIAP, if it makes sense the dik if there is no VIAP. If the exclusive interest is to protect the airport, according to the deputy general of Álava, if the dam is mandatory, or why you insist on the dam. Counselor, I believe that this project, if it is not a parliamentary one, has fallen. That's the impression. And, therefore, your project too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u39	Mrs. López de Ocariz, the truth is that I am being assaulted more and more in doubt. What are you against? From the dam, from the industrial zone project next to the airport, to protect the airport? I don't know, I don't know what you're up against, because your second intervention is that it's confused me enough. In the face of a flood risk, the Government's priority is the protection of people, vulnerable economic activities and infrastructure, especially those of high strategic value, such as Foronda Airport. The project approved by the Basque Water Agency has this purpose, and this Government considers its content to be adequate on the basis of its objective. None of the arguments put forward so far by the administrative boards have sufficient basis, nor do they conform to a minimally rigorous technical analysis. Nor has this project been questioned by the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. The confederation raised some doubts, URA offered to clear those doubts as quickly as possible, there have been several meetings held with the confederation in Zaragoza, additional documentation has been sent on 17 May, and the Basque Water Agency understands that these clarifications that the confederation might need will be remedied, if necessary. We have no record of any response involving the non-correction or existence of technical deficiencies in the project, and that is why we do not see the need to review it today. Listen, however, to talk you don't miss anything. Speaking of which, you don't miss anything. If there is a will to speak, it will not be URA, nor the Basque Government, that closes the doors to dialogue. Although I insist that this Government maintains that the proposed project is properly designed and appropriate for the purpose it pursues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "To the Lawmen of the World, Land Planets, and Housing Department of the House, concerning the organization of the Public Society." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u41	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Arriola, you are in charge of various purposes, challenges, and projects for this legislation in the Land Planets and Housing Department; and as we have heard so often, it is to strengthen one of the principal goals which we have been able to hear. On some of your statements the day before yesterday you remembered that one of the government's privileges is the promotion of the public housing rent, and, for instance, to mention one in the survival program, which, as a whole, is managed by the ALocal program, you will try to get 700 private housing to rent. To answer these plans of great purpose, we find it necessary to make some adaptations in the organization of the public profession, and to strengthen it. In order to answer these projects, the purpose, the challenge, and the change of function, which is to be expected for this legislation, does the section that you are in order to strengthen the public resources?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u42	Thank you, Madam Mount. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Otamendi, in fact, the public society Alokabide manages the Bizigune programme; it also manages the entire public housing park of the Basque Government, also its own housing park, the park ceded by the municipalities... And it is indeed a society that has an important management capacity, which we want to enhance in the future insofar as we want to respond adequately to the subjective right to housing, which is necessarily accompanied by a growth in the supply of public housing for rent that we can offer to citizens. To the extent that the weight of rental policies has been increasing, society has been adapting its internal structure and personal and material resources. According to data, in 2012 Alokabide managed a total of 11,052 housing units; 3,072 were own housing units, 2,697 were owned by the Basque Government Park, 130 by municipalities, and 5,155 by individuals captured by the Bizigune programme. For this task it had a structural staff of 74 people. This number of staff has increased slightly in successive years, and since 2015 it is located in 79 people for a number of managed dwellings, which is currently 12,167, i.e. 1,115 more than five years ago. But the truth is that the increase in work should be measured not only by the number of floors, but also by the intensity of the attention, because the beneficiaries of the rental policies are specific people, with very specific needs and problems to be addressed. For this reason, at the internal level, the management and middle management team has been consolidated to make it more operational; the customer service area has been structured and a catalogue of services has been developed to improve the operational processes; the social support and community intervention service, which is very necessary to prevent problems and to act when they occur, has been strengthened; a protocol has been established to prevent eviction situations with municipalities and anti-discharge platforms; and, among other measures, advanced computer tools are being implemented to improve communication with users and the management of incidents warnings in housing. In short, we are working to optimize the resources we have in society, with the aim of responding better every day to our needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u45	Mr. Arriola, yes. On the transparency of the premises, on Thursday preceding Thursday, he published in this new orgasm which had been published two months later in the Interoperability, por cytobertovarchic, especially by the creation of two new directors. On the one hand, the management of the Persones and Services, and, on the other, the management of Economies and Finants. 2013. as it is recorded in the "Reditional Reditional and Rrationnation strategy" of the Public Sector in the year, the lease has four general directors, and in this process no change was to be foreseen, much less the origin of the new direction. But as we can see in this new cartanigram, there are six of them received instead of four directors. We'd like to know if the production of these two new jobs has the approval of public function. In the list of jobs, the one that's published at the door of transparency, comes the profile tabs of all the jobs that come from a new organigram. But does all those changes which have been given in organisation include the origin of the two new managers, the consent of the public function? This does not agree with the rationalization of the public sector. Are all these changes based on a statement of legality and justification of public function which guarantees transparency in the worklist? He says in the States of the public district, which is held up as an appendix to 65/2011 Decree, that in the article 34th, the principal director is to be named by the General Assembly, and we can read in the transparency of the Allocation that the only public post in its structure is the Head Director. We understand, therefore, that these two new managements of the area which have been formed cannot be made freely, a dedo; that is, we may understand, that they have been made, or at least must have been done by internal competition. But according to the information that came to us, this hasn't been that way. As we have been informed, these two new managements, the heads of them, have not been chosen by internal means, nor have been conducted by any such means of merit. These two nominations are made a dedo. And what I'm saying is very, very serious. Perhaps by a strict reading of the law, the occasion will not be obliged to make selections or nominations by internal means, but you will confess to me that it is the most democratic of all. Every worker ought to have an opportunity of reaching such stations: this is the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u46	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I mean, what was this? Surprise. I was hoping that you would ask me here that "to the extent that you develop your goals of increasing the Bizigune park managed for Alokabide, keep in mind that you have to dimension society; fight with Public Service, with Finance...". And you come to me here to tell me a film that two people who were doing certain work, with a qualification, have been recognized as an internal director within the area, recognizing the responsibility, the merit of the work they had been doing at a certain level beyond what they currently recognized. The truth is, you leave me a little behind. I was expecting something else. I certainly expected that you, sharing how I believe you share the department's objectives of increasing rental housing policy, would give me a touch of attention – which we are certainly working on, you have no doubt about – to see the needs we have in society so that we can properly scale it up, to face the challenges of this increase in rental housing policy that we want to do, right? By the way, we are in a housing capture process in Bizigune, and I encourage citizens to continue to provide their homes to the Government, under the good conditions that we offer, to serve citizens properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. 9th point on the subject list: "The Internation of the members of the United States of the United States, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntaine, the law of the Populcan Groups of Government and Autobernus, for the facilities of communications placed on the mountains of the Royal Administration of Araba, which are not allowed to be placed there, on account of the canon which is to be paid, and the conflict between the Itel S.A. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u49	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, I call on you on behalf of the People's Group concerning the situation of conflict between Itelazpi and the administrative board of Ariñez over the regularization of its public mountain, where the telecommunications centre of Zaldiaran is located. The Basque Government had already made a move in 1998 to regularize the situation, and it recognized that the ownership of the land where the Zaldiaran issuing centre was located was of the administrative board of Aríñez. Here the Basque Government asked the board for free transfer of ownership of both the land and the access road, in favour of the Basque Autonomous Community, to which the mayor of the administrative board, advised by the deputy, informed him that he is not obliged to make free transfer of the plot or the road. We have therefore recognised in 1998 that Itelazpi is in an irregular situation in Zaldiaran, and that the owner of the land and road is the administrative board; that when the centre is transferred the ownership of the land is not transferred. In 2003, the Telecommunications Act was adopted, which approved that telecommunications was not a public service except for national defence and civil protection. In 2007, the Foral Standard for Montes de Álava was approved, which lays down the requirements for the occupation of public mountain, as provided for in Articles 24 and 26. In 2010 it was when the new mayor of Aríñez asked the deputy to regularize the public estate Zaldiaran, where the telecommunications center is located, a file that starts and to which Itelazpi replies that it has nothing to contribute, that it has nothing to regularize; that in the transfer it was a public property destined for the public service and lacked the canon to satisfy the board. The Foral Chamber of Álava issues a report and says that it does not contain an authorization for the initial occupation of Itelazpi, that it seems to be deduced from Itelazpi's allegations that all facilities are for public service communications. He was reminded of the 2003 law and also reminded of the fact that the recognition test that was carried out in 2014 showed that not all of them were for public service. Italazpi is urged to declare the premises and apply for the corresponding occupation permit, which is not done, which takes almost three years to authorize the administrative board and the deputy to enter the premises. That the repeater that was transferred in 1985 does not imply the transfer of ownership of the soil, so the affected area remains of the board of Aríñez. That all post-transfer facilities must be declared. Itelazpi is required to relate the facilities of the centre and, as I said, it is not communicated and, as I said, it takes two years, seven months and three days, stating that there is no economic utility for the concessionaire, which later became evident that this was not the case with the audit report. The Basque Government, Itelazpi, is deliberately refusing to regularize this situation, Mr. Counsellor (activity, payment of any amount for occupation), hindering any approach in this regard from the first minute to the present day. Because you continue... at least the director of Itelazpi, Mr. Baños, continues on the same arguments as in 2011. In addition, the Government is demonstrating an attitude contrary to the transparency that it preaches so much. Mr Erkoreka, you are the adviser on transparency, and I hope that you will resolve some of the issues that we raised here with Mr Baños and which, of course, you did not answer. It should be said that obstructionism and the lack of transparency and collaboration in providing data on the issuing centre have served to paralyse the administrative file, for more than six months since the beginning of the file. And the following paradox is given: the public society Itelazpi, fully participated by the Basque Government, does not pay the peoples any amount for the occupation, while it does pay an annual fee to the Basque Government for the use, and the companies linked to the Basque Executive pay their fee for being there facilities such as Euskal Telebista, Gasteiz Irratia, Eusko Irratia, and for the services that Itelazpi provides them. But we do not stay in using a space that is not yours and not pay rent or canon. The Basque Government not only does not pay any amount to occupy public domain, but also leases part of the occupied to third parties. Mr. Erkoreka, this could be entitled as that of how to curl the curl, right?, or how to be an okupa and also make it profitable. Yesterday by chance he read on the blog of the president of the Arab Buru Batzar referring to the Okupas of Errekaleor, and said: "Ilegitimate use of a public good". And he said, "It's putting himself on the other side of the system by taking advantage of what the system gives." Look, you've perfected this! Because how will Mr. Suso call to occupy a public space and also make it profitable without paying anything? What would you call it? It would be interesting for me to write on the blog something about this matter. Itelazpi, of the telecommunication towers distributed by the Basque geography, pay only three of them canon, while the others are operating without reversing anything to the owners of the land, in most cases the administrative boards and municipalities of small localities. Of these towers, 70 % lacks the corresponding authorization of the deputies and activity licenses. But Itelazpi does charge companies for the use of these infrastructures. Thus, the net turnover of Itelazpi is EUR 12.6 million for services and services. Of this amount, 9.8 million euros are from the public sector: from EITB, from the security of the Basque Government, from the network..., from meteorology. We understand that Itelazpi distorts free competition, because when the Administration acts as an operator more on the market it must be subject to at least the same rules as the rest of the operators, and not enjoy situations of privilege that can lead to a distortion of competition. Itelazpi provides a service of general interest, but only a part of it has the consideration of public service. Because the director of Itelazpi, Baths, insisted on public service. It has to be said that there are many public service administrations that are in non-own premises, and they pay their rents religiously. Therefore, we do not understand Itelazpi's closure of not paying the fee for the use of property belonging to another entity and another administration. It occupies public land for which it does not pay any amount, while other operators do. And then there are those that Itelazpi welcomes into his bosom, because Itelazpi makes disloyal competition. When an operator goes to install and goes to the board of directors to say, "Hey, how can I install?Itelazpi says: "Chist! Leave it, come to my bosom, that I welcome you." And what's that? Then a disloyal competition! Because there are operators who operate outside, who are located outside the network, the Itelazpi enclosure, and pay the joints, but Itelazpi does not. And, counselor, frankly, this is very difficult to understand. In our view, public administrations must abide by the principles of neutrality, transparency and non-discrimination. All legal operators should be able to compete on an equal footing to provide the services that materializes Itelazpi, which acts in a privileged position, with a real and effective impact on the market, introducing a disruptive element for free competition. It is what we believe, and it has certainly not shown us that it is the opposite. I believe that the behaviour and attitude of the Government in the Itelazpi case can be greatly improved, both politically and legally, Mr. Counsellor. Politically because this treatment of dominance, superiority, disrespect between administrations is not admissible. Because there have been moments of disrespect to the outlaw parliament and to the administrative board, and we believe that this does not contribute to anything. And besides, as I say to you, you are the advisor of transparency, good relationship, governance, this should avoid it. And then, on the legal side, because time cannot be extended on purpose, to then use the time spent to close a file. All knowing, too. It is not admissible to make claims when, for example, Itelazpi is required to hold the title of occupation of the land, claiming aspects of competence that he knows are not true. He has manipulated the words in his answer, all to delay times and not to assume a responsibility. Mr Councilman, what we are asking you is whether you, and your Government, want this to be renewed, to have a good relationship with the administrative boards where you occupy space, and whether you can regularise the situation, as requested in the year 98. It's rained a little, Mr. Counselor, and we're in the same place. Nothing more than I see the position of the Government in this case as a very closed position, and not recognizing, from our point of view and until proven otherwise, that they have an obligation. Because you already pay, Itelazpi already pays a few fees, with which you have already recognized that you have to make a recompense. And why some yes and others no? That would be very important for us to clarify. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u50	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, all good days. Mrs López de Ocariz, the question you raise is susceptible to a double approach: a partial approach, or if you prefer territorial, or a comprehensive and comprehensive approach. Or, in other words, it can be dealt with basically in two ways: From a micro perspective, i.e. from the perspective of the interests and aspirations of a specific administrative board on whose territory an antenna, an electronic communications centre, of the 215 that exist approximately within the territorial scope of the Autonomous Community is installed. Or from the macro perspective, from the perspective of a public society which aims to exploit the electronic communications network of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, primarily intended (not exclusively, but predominantly), for the self-provision of services, in such a way that it provides the public sector of the Autonomous Community with the electronic communications necessary to enable it to carry out its functions. Security functions, emergency functions, civil protection functions, meteorology, etc., etc., public functions that I do not think should be underestimated and which are also considered this way by the whole of the state's telecommunications legislation. In addition, it also provides free television broadcasting services for people living in rural areas and to whom ordinary coverage – of course, a coverage managed in strictly economic and business management terms – would never reach them, if there is no public service principle that inspires action. And residually, by legal mandate, because this is required, inter alia, by Article 9(4) of the General Communications Act, offers shelter to equipment of private operators. But, I insist, its main function, the prevailing one, is the self-provision of services for the public sector itself. These two perspectives are both legitimate. There is nothing written about the need to deal with public debates in one way or another, and of course this debate is as legitimate as it is from the micro perspective, from the macro perspective, from the territorial and partial perspective or from the integral point of view. I see that you tend to take a micro-oriented approach: your presentation today has been clear, but you have had even clearer presentations, and the written text of your inquiry is unequivocal in this respect. But I suppose you will understand that, as an advisor to the department that has Itelazpi society, you will understand that I am morally, legally and politically obliged to make a broader approach, a macro approach, an integral perspective on this matter. And I can tell you that the position which the Basque Government stands for in this respect and which the Director-General of Itelazpi has had the opportunity to express on another occasion in this House is neither novel nor capricious. It is exactly the same – therefore it is not new – that has been defending in this matter for the past few years and that it has defended, among others, who occupied the General Directorate of Itelazpi between 2009 and 2012, a distinguished militant of the People's Party, of his party (yes, yes, I know he claims, but so it is), Gonzalo Machín, who held a seat in this same House and who has held many other public responsibilities. It is therefore not a new position in the House. It is exactly the same position that Itelazpi and the Basque Government have always held in this area. And, by the way, the same position that all public officials in all the autonomous communities who are also entrusted with the management of communication networks such as this, of public electronic communications networks such as this, defend. I would like to illustrate Galicia, also managed by the People's Party, which can perhaps serve to illustrate what is a unanimous position of all public managers on this issue. It's not new and, I insist, it's not capricious. It is not that it is an arbitrary position of public managers of the Basque Nationalist Party. No! No! It has thus been defended by Itelazpi managers of the Basque Nationalist Party and Itelazpi managers of the People's Party itself, endorsed in their case by Itelazpi presidents at that time, who was, for example, the vice-counsel of the public administration branch, which belonged to the Socialist Party. And this has been defended unanimously always. Of course, you raise an eminently legal debate in many of these aspects. Legal. I do not know whether it makes sense to refer an inquiry to a fundamentally legal debate. It is not that I have problems dealing with a legal debate on this or any other matter, here or outside Parliament, with you, in relation to any matter you raise. As you will understand, I don't know what kind of training you have – coljo by your words that you're not exactly a lawyer – but I wouldn't have a problem raising such a legal issue with you. But frankly I believe that legal issues and conflicts, where they exist, are resolved in the courts, and that parliaments are for something else, to make political approaches. And, of course, legal conflicts are not resolved through parliamentary majorities, but through the courts. Nor do I think it makes much sense for us to table a debate on the historical account of what has happened in relation to this antenna to which you, from Zaldiaran, have referred in recent years. You have made many assessments here, many assessments, many of them objectionable; you have made a historical account that does not entirely conform to reality, selective (selects the information you prefer, hides the information you don't want); disqualifies those who think you have to do... I am not going to go into that kind of consideration, because I believe, frankly, that it does not make sense that the inquiry also leads to a debate on a historical account of exactly what has happened. I am going to tell you that the position of the Basque Government in Itelazpi has not changed in this area since... at least since its management was in the hands of a director general of the People's Party. And that is why we say that all the electronic communication centres of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, including, of course, Zaldiaran's, are public domain goods for a public service; property owned by the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi managed by Itelazpi, which is a public society one hundred percent that is integrated in the public sector of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and also operates with full legitimacy as a telecommunications operator, within the framework of the General Telecommunications Act, which is of 2014 (approved, by the way, with an absolute majority of the People's Party General Courts). As I said, Gonzalo Machín, in a letter to which you referred (which is not from 2010, correct the data: it is from 2011), said: "This is how all the public administrations involved have peacefully interpreted the legal situation, without having to pay any fees since its construction was carried out in 1966." My position, therefore, the position of the Government and of Itelazpi, is not new, because it is the usual one, nor is it capricious, because it is the one that Itelazpi's managers have also defended in this matter from their own party. You ask: "Are the government and Itelazpi for an agreed solution?". Of course, the answer has to be affirmative. Of course it's for an agreed solution! However, you will agree with me, surely it is not hidden from you that the law does not see with good eyes the transaction in the field of public administration, because in the field of public administration and the public sector there are at stake public interests and rights and duties that are irrefutable, and are thus considered by the legislation itself. Review the administrative procedural legislation and the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act, and you may see that you do not view liberal transactions in the public administration with good eyes. That is why we are for an agreement, but not for any agreement. Of course not because of an agreement that would deny the Basque Government's electronic telecommunications network the status of public domain property and impose management formulas (e.g. concession) that are incompatible with this nature. We are going to defend this everywhere, here in Parliament and in the courts if we have to. It's just that I can't imagine a manager, I can't imagine Itelazpi or any public body, making a different approach. It is for you to imagine what the Court of Auditors can say if you see that a public manager has given up free of charge, because it has been requested by an administrative board or a parliamentary body, from all the exorbitant powers that property law recognizes to public property. Look at the considerations that you could make and the administrative responsibilities that could result from it. Nor are we, logically, prepared to reach an agreement that means giving up a comprehensive and unitary management of a public service. We are not prepared for the same reason, because it could not be understood either before society or before the courts or the Court of Auditors. Having said that, we can talk, if you wish, in the second part, about what is a comprehensive management that seeks, among other things, social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u53	Counselor, the macro and the micro. Asparrena, Etura, Kontrasta, are they macro, or micro? Zaldiaran for sixteen months was macro, or micro? What are we talking about, counselor? What are we talking about? I think it's disrespectful. A lack of respect, first of all, to try to evade your answer to the question we are dealing with. You know perfectly well how the transit and all the documentation is coming to your apartment. And he comes to me to talk about the macro. Sure! Is Asparena macro? Is Etura macro? Is Kontrasta macro? What are these, tall, ruby, blue-eyed? Or what? You know that the public service that Itelazpi provides, I have told you, does not reach 10% of all the activity that Itelazpi does. So, what are we talking about? Itelazpi does not do the same activity as he did in the year 85, when the skills were transferred to him. Look, first conclusion: Itelazpi has no title to occupy the listed pile of public utility, owned by the Council of Aríñez. That has been said by the House. I'm not saying it, it says it's a congress. So, let's see, is that any administration, no matter how much public service it is, if it occupies a space that does not belong to it pays an income. I mean, I think that's what he's already told you. This situation needs to be regularized. Yes, Mr. Counsellor, you have to regularize it, and you should be the first interested, as someone was interested in 1998. And why? Because we are faced with substantial changes in the occupation admitted without economic compensation in its day. Not because of a physical expansion of the area of the occupied land, but because of the increase in the facilities contained inside the enclosure, which houses or provides new services to third parties, including those provided to private operators. Hence the need to regulate this situation, Mr. Counsellor. Should Itelazpi pay the amount of money to the holders of the mountains where their centers that were the subject of transfer are located? Of course you do, of course you have to pay. And then the explanation: why you subscribe to Etura, to Asparrena, to Kontrasta, you subscribe sixteen months to Aríñez, and you stop paying and you ask to be reimbursed, for a file that you promote, you do knowingly, you delay the time, and then you close the file. They don't go into the bottom; they close the file because it's been a long time. Counselor, you are the advisor of transparency, of governance. Counselor, I don't think that's the case. Mr Baños, director of Itelazpi, said on several occasions in this House that any modification of the fees would entail the dismantling of the telecommunications network. I understand this would mean a renunciation of this competition, wouldn't it? If we dismantle the network, you would give up the competition, others would come to do it. Yes, there would be no problem; we would enter free competition, it would not be wrong. I'd like to know what you think of Mr. Baños's words. Why is a canon paid in some places and in others not? You have submitted an agreement to the legislature to exempt yourself from the canon, which you know you have an obligation to do. I'm going to move some questions that Mr. Baños didn't answer in his appearance. Anyway, maybe you do. Why did they prevent for 959 days the administrative board of Aríñez and the Foral Diputación de Álava from coming to the centre of Zaldiaran to see what was there, whether it corresponded to what was transferred in 1985 or not? Are you going to meet with the administrative boards that own the piles of public utility that you are occupying to inform you of your rights and obligations, those of the public service that you say? They'll have to inform you! Are you wrong? Are you guys really wrong? Is the Chamber very wrong, too? Is the City Council of Vitoria also very wrong? Are we all very wrong? We're all a bunch of undocumented people, and you're the only one who knows. I recognize all your wisdom, your practice, your experience, everything. I have no problem recognizing everything. Leave me alone, please, okay? Leave me alone. Why did they propose a parliamentary convention that exempted payment? Why? Are you going to appeal the last out-of-court order of the Álava Foral Diputation... Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs López de Ocariz, first of all, I cannot share with you and I cannot allow you to say that my answer is disrespectful to anyone. Not at all. I have been all the respectful that has to be a counselor who gives accounts and reasons in this House. Obviously, you expected an answer and I am not obliged to give you the answer you want me to give you. I am obliged to answer you, and respectfully, as I believe I have done, using reasons and arguments. Secondly, you insist on two issues: the narrative and the legal title. All right, I said I'm not going to go in either one, but look, there are two precisions that I have to do necessarily. It tells me that Zaldiaran's facilities have no legal title and that's what the Álava Foral Chamber says. If Itelazpi's legal title in relation to that occupation is transferred by the Álava Provincial Council itself! But are you telling me that the Álava Foral Diputation is reporting against itself and saying that the 1985 decree was an illegal decree; that the diputation itself illegally transferred, transferred property of which it was not the holder and of which it had no title of occupation? Are you telling me that the foreign parliament is reporting against itself from a legal point of view? It's absurd, I don't know if you realize it. In any case, I mean, it's a legal issue that I don't think I need to go into right now. If it is in the courts, it is the courts that resolve this issue. Do not be afraid, the courts will already pronounce themselves clearly on this issue. On the other hand, I also had no intention of reviewing your account of facts, but, of course, when you manipulate the facts in such a scandalous way... Look, actually in 2011 an inspection was not done that was established, but it was, among other things, because since Álava's Foral Diputation Marta Ruiz Cerrillo, director of the People's Party, said: "I agree with you in convening a meeting that will allow for a general solution to future legal situations that may arise from this issue." There was an agreement between the two parties. The inspection was not suspended because Itelazpi did not appear, but because both parties considered it irrelevant at the time and there were many cases to clarify. So don't talk about disrespect and responsibility on one side and on the other, when this cross-card is in the file and you can check it exactly as I do. Do not make a selective reading of the information according to your interest. I know that you are in elections right now at the administrative boards, I know that you have a lot of interest in competing with others, in being those who take precedence over that issue, I understand, but you understand that you are contradicting the whole approach that the People's Party has taken on this issue at least since one of its members was Director General of Itelazpi. And, of course, it is the approach that in all those public areas that the People's Party is managing is defending in relation to public electronic communications networks. All of them. Then talk to the autonomous communities that govern you and have these kinds of networks, and check with them. In any case, I am going to give you a series of data that I think are important to understand this macro perspective that you were so interested in. Look at what the macro perspective is, and why we believe it is essential that the management of this public service is done here from an integral, macro, complete perspective; not from the partial and territorial perspective of the interest or aspiration of a single administrative board. Watch out, Itelazpi currently manages, operates 215 centers in the territorial area of the autonomous community: 58 provide service in Álava, 83 in Bizkaia, and 74 in Gipuzkoa. Good. 99% of Gasteiz is covered with Zaldiaran, with only one centre; but one private operator, one, has only three centres throughout Alava that cover 90%. And to cover one hundred percent of the population, 54 more are needed, than Itelazpi does in terms of public service. If you want to dismantle everything, perfect. That coverage does not reach everywhere, that citizenship (part of it) is excluded, by satisfying the interests and aspirations of an administrative board. That's fine with me. Second. To cover Álava, the population outside of Gasteiz, Itelazpi's investment effort is seven times that of the Autonomous Community as a whole. Seven times older. In Euskadi, the number of inhabitants covering each centre is approximately 10,000: in Araba, 5,000; in Bizkaia, 13,000; in Gipuzkoa, 9,000; and in Araba without Gasteiz, 1,400. Seven times more. Do not tell me that social cohesion is not at stake, do not tell me that an investment must not be made from a public perspective to ensure this. That you want to privatize Itelazpi? Plant it in the House. It'll be discussed. Plant it, but I don't think your parliamentary group is going to support it either, because it provides a public service that is irrefutable...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek... Thank you. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, myria Kortja, the members of the staff assembled at Ibañi to the Chief of Empedugus and Polic Society, to ensure the incomes of incomes concerning the charges concerning the criteria of educating the rents." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u57	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief of the Artola generous department, good day. After a long demand from the one and the other, it may be said, without any other remedy, that the profession has made public the criteria used in the management of the revenue for the revenue, and now we have little knowledge that they are in the case, and may be resurrected by an accusation made by certain agents. We had but little time now in the parliament of dispute about the necessity of making public, and even then we discussed that it was essential in the opinion of our party that these elements should be public and present, in order to ensure the right of rent by guarantee, but that it was essential, in order to be able to discuss these measures, to examine and correct the encounters which they may have with reality and with their liberty. And thus it has been shown that the events of these days, with which the rules of play are solved, have been laid upon the table, and that which has been a question of time and of time has been made. To raise the first voices against some of these criteria and start the opposition of these criteria. In short, the revenues of money have a regulation derived from the growth of the law, which agrees with the spirit and end of the law, but this regulation has a small letter. The entrance of the revenue regulates the laws of the revenue, and the grounds of receiving it, and of cutting it off. But they are essentially internal criteria which are applied to daily use, and which in practice resolve to give to whom to give them, and to whom to take the rent to ensure their incomes. As we discussed in this discussion, these views are not of any importance, we said that they were at least "successable," and now the judge will say what they are or how they can be qualified, but at least they may be said to be controversial. As the revenues are often too frequent for the maintenance of incomes, the charge of these criteria is as great as the "morality," and the prejudices of the benefit are very present in the whole document. It may be said that these criteria, at least in a certain degree, collide with the reality of the benefiters and their freedom of choosing the project of life, which only happens with this system, and is nowhere else. They often have a narrower view and the element of control is perfectly present. It may be imagined, as a rule, that these considerations are to exclude men from their system, and not to lead them to the system. Instead of making it easy for people who are in serious circumstances, they seem to be the criteria that are to be particularly difficult. As we discussed when we discussed it, it is probable that these principles have been rejected for so long as they have been public. Arartekoak ere hitz egin du irizpide hauen inguruan eta drinking posture ere ildo berean dago kokatua. Proportzionaltasuna eskatu du Arartekoak eta argi esan du: "the zeal and severity applied by Lanbide in the management of the RGI often generate surrealistic and exclusive situations". It must be mentioned that 700 people have been deprived of their income for the application of these revenues. That there may be more than five thousand, who have lost their readiness for such conditions and obligations as are excessive or superfluous. In these, often, even without being conscious of them. This idea seems to be shared by the social agents who have put up a complaint against the profession. From the 315 criteria which the document contains, they have resurrected 28, in the belief that 17 of these are contrary. These legislators, it seems, are opposed to the principle of legality, when these conditions and duties received in the law of profession are demanded of some addition, and either they say, or their logic, if they would apply these conditions to the law. And you see, too, that some of those criteria which are rejected seem to you to have been included in those measures which you have presented on Wednesday. For example, those reforms which plan to justify census and dependence. And now a Gasteize court has admitted to this complaint to the tramit. And in this accusation there is also a question of uncertain measures, which may prevent the application of these maxims from being a sentence. It's been twenty days before the Profession has been answered for this resource, and we'd like to know what's going to happen to you, what it's like to think about what's going to happen around what's happening and what's going to happen during the next months in the reform, and what's going to happen or what's going to happen until the rent clears. But I used to say that it's especially important to know what's happened, the chief physician and his team are thinking about it, because in the middle of it there's a discussion about the last months of rent. Because the essential elements of this discussion, which will take place in these days, are here placed. He's often told you that in the course of the last few months, our team, my lady physician, we've been very close to the planning of the Party and the elections of certain media, and that we've been very close to the proposal, even in our speech. When the control and the presumption of deception are placed in the centre of the dispute, this is the case: that your posts and thecan party are very near, too close to us. And what we see about this criterion is that the law, the spirit, and the object of RGI's system, and the discourse you're treating of in the past few months, is a collision. And this collision doesn't allow us to open all those consensus we need in the current process. He puts us in an argument between black and white, which, in our opinion, is not at all proper. You know, too, that this is a sterile discussion about control, that it is false. He only dissolves and debarizes the argument. And that it leads us out of the right way. You can make fu or fa, but that's the way it is. The decisions which may be made about the criteria, seem to us to be a point of syllogism in which they can open a path. The chief physician has a perfect moment to reflect on what had happened with his criteria and to place his income on the right path to the reform. We think it's time for discussion to be reached in the proper terms. The problem with the RGI is not a fraud, it's not a benefit, it's a different problem. The problem is, while some of us are doing very well, the others are in the most violent poverty. That it's a reality that comes to stop poverty. The data shows we're going to a raw, chronic poverty. Poverty, preparation, and social rifts are becoming more and more distinct in us. And it looks like you don't want to answer that question. And, further, it is evident that the system of our economic conditions is no longer dignified to live in dignity, and to avoid such a state of retreat, though it may be worthy of 600 euros as you have said. You're on time to go back to the line of judgment, to the course of rights, justices, and solidaritys, Mrs. Artola generouss. We must have a collective purpose to optimize all the aspects of the revenue, and to strengthen them as instruments for social excitement. When the direction is directed and the first step is given with these criteria, it is time for you to tie up complicity, Chief Artolarian. It's essential to ensure the incomes of incomes for the recovery of continental incomes, but very carefully, you must choose your companions very carefully. You're gonna have to choose, you know, between the odds, one way or the other. And you can start thinking about these criteria again, you can start refining them in your position. I will ask you two things in this sense: apply, in this requital, the principle of innocence in the reading of these maxims. Get rid of the anti-faza people who charge RGI! And I'll ask you what you ask us so often: the principle of realism. Look at the challenge we really have in hand. That way, as I've told you so often, the Basque People will have their hand open. On the other hand, on the road to reduction, that road which approaches to our right ration, a shorter road, a criminal, you will not find us on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u59	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. I came here to talk about the question Mrs Kortajarena was asking me, whose specific question was the situation created before the complaint against the criteria used in the processing of income guarantee income, and not to talk about the reform of income guarantee income that has been presented by this Government, which we have already talked about and will have an opportunity to talk about. I am going to confine myself in principle to replying to the doubts and concerns raised by your group with regard to the complaint that has been made in the Vitoria courts, and then I am going to pass on to you a number of questions which have raised to me that I believe have nothing to do with the debate that has brought us to this House today. This department and Lanbide in particular will continue to apply the current legislation, bearing in mind the criteria that clarify the articulation of the current legislation and that have been published on the website of Lanbide and on the portal of the Basque Legegunea regulation. Thus, given the different casuistics that occur, these criteria serve as a guide for the processing of GIR files in a homogeneous way in all offices, and they are also useful for all Basque citizens to know in a clear and transparent way the resolutions that are adopted. We work with the criteria in accordance with the regulations in force and with the corresponding instructions, with the aim of providing the handlers with their resolution, and also to ensure that, in a similar case, the resolution adopted is the same in any of the offices in Lanbide. We're still working. As I have already commented on in successive speeches on this same issue, we have held various technical and political meetings related to this issue. We have been talking to Ararteko and his team, who have shared concerns about the need for reflection on the dissemination of the criteria for the processing of GIR, among other issues. And those recommendations were positive, and that's why we assumed them. The definition and knowledge of the criteria for the processing of the guarantee income are key elements in the exercise of the transparency and public service that the department develops. These criteria are a necessity for proper and transparent processing, and must be known to the citizen, as they directly affect the improvement of the management of this benefit. The definition of these working instructions gives a clear and concise answer to the most frequent questions that arise in the processing of files. And, in response to the complaint raised, the Department of Employment and Social Policy is going to respond in detail to this specific demand made by a citizen. There is, of course, no interim suspension for this criterion, and in the appeal referred to, as an interim measure - it is a request made by the citizen - the suspension of the execution of certain sections of the document: the requirement for the lessee to enter the lease in the Register of Contracts, and the obligation for all co-leasers to register in the dwelling they have leased. These are the only two points, of the seventy published proposals for criteria for the processing of GIR, which have been claimed by this citizen, by a single citizen. Therefore, there is a proposal for precautionary measures (proposal, I insist) exclusively for these two points, the deadline for submitting an allegation ending on 5 June. We are already working on the submission of these allegations, and we will then be waiting for an answer from the judiciary when the time comes. We're still on June 2nd. Therefore, since that demand has not been estimated so far, the published criteria continue to be in force and we continue to resolve them accordingly. In any event, it is surprising that, from a document qualified by the applicant as "very harmful" to income-guarantee beneficiaries, only two of its points are requested to be suspended. Having examined the claim in its most relevant aspects, it is said that it may have effect on third parties, establishing obligations not covered by the current legislation, serving as an example of this, as I have already mentioned, the obligation imposed on the recipient of the benefit to register the lease in the relevant register. And this is as a result of the implementation of the entry into force of the Housing Act: any lease has to be registered. In this way, the criteria document seeks to clarify that there are other rules that can establish obligations for citizens, and, as is the case, beyond their perception of GIR, it also has to comply with these rules. Therefore, the fact that you are a guarantor does not exempt a person from fulfilling these obligations. It should be noted that the specific administrative decisions of the guarantee income base their decision only on the existing legislation, and never on the basis of the criteria in force at the date of the guarantee income, as is easily apparent. The publication of the criteria on Lanbide's website is based on a broad interpretation of Law 19/2013 on transparency, access to public information and good governance. And pending the judicial decision, as I mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, we will continue to resolve the files according to the criteria published last April, since we understand that they are in accordance with the law and the norm. I insist, there are no precautionary measures of suspension, we have prepared the allegations to that claim submitted within the prescribed time limits, and we await the response to the allegations we have submitted. You, in addition to what you were asking me in relation to what the complaint itself was, have made a number of comments and made a number of assertions that I think are due to another debate and that at the moment I think they have to stay out of the question that you ask me, but when you tell me that if I feel opportune, necessary, sufficient..., that it is 650 euros, for a person to have a decent life. I believe, according to these documents and this analysis and this work that was carried out in a technical, objective way, according to the poverty survey, and the inequality survey, it is estimated that these amounts are sufficient to be able to carry out..., to safeguard the basic conditions or needs of a person. That we also have to remember that it is 650 euros of the guarantee income, plus 250 euros as a result of the supplementary housing benefit. Therefore, we are in an intense debate, in a debate that is going to be long, but I hope that the contributions that we all make will serve to improve and consolidate a model that we all want to defend and from which we have given ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u61	Yes, the head of the table, members of the legislature, Miss Artola generous. Ni ere etorri naiz horri buruz hitz egitera, to talk about the situation that opens up after what happened with the demand and what is happening with Lanbide's criteria. I've also come to talk about it, because that can make it very clear where the shots go. It's all connected! It is that within these criteria is the fundamental basis on which the entire development of GIR has been based. That's right, and it's just that you recognize it too. Because you are going to tell me why these two discussions are disconnected, when you yourself in the reform proposal that you make us, with those fifteen proposals, collects some of those that were previously criteria and are now proposals for incorporation into the law. I mean, these are things that are very related and that show that there are very different measuring rods, as Ararteko says, much more disproportionate, and that the zeal that you have with people who perceive GIR is completely different from that you have with other people in this society. And I'm going to give you an example linked to the pattern. You have mentioned to us in your appearance, and these days also in the media, that there is a fraud with the subject of the masters, and that in order to avoid that fraud it is proposed that the standard be presented and that there be also a series of documents supporting the fact that a person has residence in that domicile. Well, it's a well-known thing that during periods of enrollment in public education there are many people who disappoint with the pattern; there are people who use the pattern so that their sons and daughters can go to specific centers or not. But Mrs. Uriarte and the Department of Education don't organize a whole system thinking that parents who take their children to school are defrauders. That is the difference, that is the disproportionateness that is reflected in these criteria. And they are elements and paradigms that are at the base to know where we are going with this reform. It is very different to put forward criteria to clarify and order a system, completely different from a number of criteria that try to exclude people from the system, when what we really have in our hands now is a cluster of people (59,000, nothing less) who, being in a situation of real poverty, do not have access to this system. That is the real problem, the situations of poverty that we are living here, which seems that in that Basque oasis they do not want to see. You want to talk about poverty in exact terms, but here we should start talking about putting people who perceive GIR in the face. Real face, not that doll face with anti-face. Let's make them look real! Or is it that no one knows people who perceive GIR who have had bad luck in life and at a specific moment have to perceive GIR? Or is it that no one, from that beginning of reality and that knowledge of reality that you were telling us the other day, knows people who are working in precarious and have to receive GIR? Or is it that no one knows women who have had to separate themselves from their husbands and have been working in their homes without perceiving a hard one, and have to get out of that situation, take care of a family by perceiving the RGI? Doesn't anyone know about this kind of situation? Principle of reality, you ask us over and over again. Apply it! And apply also the presumption of innocence. That the principles that are valid for the use of other systems (universalization, quality of life, autonomy), all these principles are also guiding principles of this system. That's what we're asking, and that's totally related to what's happened to Lanbide's criteria, which are moralizing, which are criminalizing, which put people on a criterion, which is not used to organize a system, but rather complicate it. And it is directly related to the way in which we can find each other in the reform that we are going to achieve. These are not separate arguments. I've told him many times. I put it on the table, and I put it on the table today because I think we have a shared challenge, I think we have a maximum responsibility to which we have to respond together. Our hand is stretched out, but you know the path you're going to find us on. In these kinds of moralizing, criminalizing discourses, dealing with people with different measuring rods, with disproportionateities and so, Euskal Herria Bildu will not be at your side, Mrs Artolazabal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u63	I insist, Mrs Kortajarena, I came to talk about the question you were asking me. It referred to a complaint that a citizen has filed in a Vitoria court with the aim of defending, from his point of view, something that from Lanbide, from this government, we are doing wrong. And you again make the speech that I think you want to make about the RGI, which I think in this rostrum at this time it is not up to you to do. But, well, when I'm done answering what you've really asked me, I want to make a number of points. We from the Government continue to improve and work to improve management, and we will certainly not give up on improving management. We want the model to be efficient and effective, and we are going to put in place measures, those that have to do with law reform and another set of management measures that we have already implemented. And I think that's also going to strengthen the model and the system that we have built up, because I think that sometimes, with speeches on the part of some and on the part of others, we are questioning what this model is that we have put... Man, yeah, sure, when you're telling me that we have moralizing criteria, that we're criminalizing, that we're stigmatizing... Man, then, Mrs Kortajarena, I believe that, of course, it is neither the will of this adviser nor the will of this department, nor is it the will of this government. And let us think of ourselves, when we have been – as I said and reminded you in the committee – working actively forever to strengthen and implement this model, which is envious in other parts of the state and is envious in other parts of Europe, because it hurts me, what do you want me to say to you! It hurts. On 21 March, I also informed them that we were conducting a review of those documents, that we were working on interpretative criteria and instructions. Because it is true that there were no clear criteria, or, if they existed, were not public, and that somehow left in a state of defence those who had to deal with the possible suspensions or eliminations of their security income. And, therefore, we did believe that on this issue of transparency we had to do something, and that is why we published the criteria. And we published them also knowing that that was going to benefit the collectors and the workers, because we also had to rely on them. The definition of these instructions gives a clear and concise answer to what is happening, and answers to frequent questions are being given. The Department of Employment and Social Policy will indeed respond to a person's claim against the criteria for applying the guarantee income. And in addition, the claim or complaint that this person has filed in the courts has to do with the application of the Housing Act, which we cannot forget is that there is another set of rules that are being adopted and to which citizens are subject, whether we are perceptors or not. Here the only thing that is said is, of the seventy proposals that we have made and that are published (and that are criteria, that are not proposed; that are criteria for the processing of the guarantee income), two sub-spects of the second aspect have been resorted to, or think that gentleman, or that person who has filed the claim, that are not legal, and that precautionary measures be taken. And the court has not taken any precautionary measures at the moment. What he said is that we have twenty days to file that series of allegations, and we'll see if he's right or not. And if we did, we would have no problem amending or deleting those articles, but at the moment we have no precautionary suspension, nor are we committing any illegality at the moment. We are applying the rule as it stands, those criteria are in principle legal, and we will therefore continue to apply them. We're not trying to exclude anyone. It seems that it is only you who know people who are having a bad time. Well, Mrs Kortajarena, we also live in this world, we have our feet in Euskadi, we have people who come to us, and we know exactly what the problems and needs are. And according to all this situation and knowledge we present initiatives that we understand are good because they improve the model, because they protect people more, because the amounts that we have presented, depending on whether you are adult or not, are greater than the amounts that you are receiving. And, therefore, stop accusing us that we are people who give morale and that we criminalize people. No way! What we're trying to do is help! And for that, Mrs. Kortajarena, I also want your support...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arriega. Time is up. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, by Guanax Suáz together with the staff of the Podemos to employ the duties of the police and police society in order to ensure the income." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u65	Good morning, members of the legislative class, chiefs. On 6 April you published the so-called "criterion document", just before an inquiry took place here in Parliament to ask them about it. I asked, as usual, to the point of satiety whether that document, and not other things, apart from the regulations, were to be applied. Unlike other times, you did answer me this time. I will quote from the Journal of Sessions: "That the criteria to be applied are those that are published? Of course. It's just that that's obvious. You don't even have to ask." In the motion of 27 April, we reached an agreement signed by the parties that support the Government, and I remind you, also speaking with you, that "obligations not contained in the regulation or in that criteria document" should not apply. One such issue that had disappeared, both in the April and recent May criteria document, was the ban on travel outside the autonomous community. However, on 13 May, an article was published in the press stating that, having consulted the department, it would apply, among other measures. Not questioning the substance of the measure, but the need for people to know their obligations in order to be able to fulfil them, how do you justify that, despite the above, your department claims to be applying obligations not covered by the law, such as the obligation not to leave the autonomous community more than fifteen days a year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u67	Mrs Guanche, the current rules on guarantee income state that income guarantee income is a periodic benefit, and the subjective right is of an economic nature. This benefit is intended to cover the basic needs of persons in a situation of absence of minimum income in the Basque Autonomous Community. And, thus, the regulations state that persons who receive the benefit must have effective and uninterrupted residence in any municipality of the autonomous community. Effective, it's uninterrupted. On the other hand, the regulations also provide that both the holder and the members of his cohabitation unit who are of working age must be available for employment. I mean, we have to be uninterrupted, and we also have to be available for employment. This regulatory framework provides that persons receiving the benefit must be present in Euskadi, as well as remain available for employment, and on an uninterrupted basis as applicants for employment. And this comes in the law. This is reflected in the Income Guarantee Act, and they are obliged to report any changes to their situation. In this way, a person who moves outside the autonomous community would be in non-compliance with the current regulations. However, in mid-2014 and following several requests from third-sector entities, Lanbide took on an analogy with the work of the persons receiving the guarantee income in their form of supplementary income from employment, allowing the possibility of moving outside the autonomous community for up to thirty days without losing the right to the economic benefit during that period, provided that it is communicated. In addition, in order to facilitate basic income recipients, to allow the period of travel to which they have a basic income, they are allowed to maintain the entitlement to the benefit for fifteen days, but have to communicate it. And, for this purpose, when perceiving persons report a Lanbide exit proceeds to suspend their obligation to remain registered as job seekers, depending on the demand. Thus it prevents it from falling down and there is a breach, which could be the loss of the right. Similarly, it is prevented from being called into any process of insertion which, if not introduced, could result in a loss of the right. Lanbide therefore does not prevent a person from moving outside the autonomous community, but applies the legislation, allowing him to do so for a certain period of time, without the right to receive the benefit being affected. And for that it is necessary for the person to notify that displacement. This is an obligation under the law, and when a person receiving income security income is granted the benefit is informed of these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u69	Mrs Artolazabal, whatever you say, it doesn't make sense for you to force you to fulfill obligations like the one you mentioned a moment ago to some people who don't know them. But, above all, it's neither fair nor legal. And although I told you that I was not going to enter the content, but how you justified this, I'm going to enter a little bit into the content. The fact that you understand that being permanently available for employment is not being able to go to Burgos, for example, to look for work is absurd. But above all, I insist, it is unfair and not reflected in the regulations. Effective residence is interrupted, according to a Supreme Court ruling, when ninety days pass, not fifteen. Authorization people have to know that they have to ask for it, and if this is not publicly recorded they cannot fulfill their obligation. These hyper-restrictive interpretations of the regulations mean that, like the measures you proposed on Wednesday, many people who are already in a situation of vulnerability that we must take care of and protect remain at the stand. If the intention is to facilitate processing, they would have to take other measures. You will have to know what you can carry and what you can carry, as well as the parties that support the government. I insist, the right to a guarantee of income (which is not a favour, it is a right) is something in which we cannot and must not take a step backwards. I also insist on something I have already said and told you in more areas: the right to information is a pillar of the rule of law; there can be no rule of law without the right to information. You, with your abusive practices, with your bad practices, are violating the right of the population to be informed, and you are playing, with your proposals, to pursue rather than protect. And don't tell me that I'm attacking the income guarantee income model, because I already defended it before I'm here, I'll continue to defend it later, and I defend it day by day accompanying people who don't know that they have these obligations to fulfill, you say what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u71	Man, I'm surprised you're telling me that it doesn't make sense to fulfill your obligations. Well, man, if you tell me that I have to leave you or that people can do whatever they want... no, it's not like that. I believe, Mrs Guanche, that it has all the logic of the world to fulfil its obligations. And of course people are knowledgeable, because they are informed in the offices of Lanbide about their rights and obligations. Man, I don't know, only you know all things, and the rest of the world are going in the opposite direction. This criterion of necessity is applied not only by the Autonomous Community, but also by SEPE, which allows travel for a limited period of time. And the jurisprudence you say... The Supreme Court, in judgement 7817/2012, states that "absence greater than fifteen calendar days, whether communicated or not, constitutes a transfer of residence". And if a person wants to go to Burgos to look for work what they have to do, and they do, because usually people who have no problem call Lanbide, talk to Lanbide and tell Lanbide "Hey, in this situation, what do I have to do?"... That's true, Mrs. Guanche. People are informed from the department...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Your time is up. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect are made to the head of the Board of Education, the effect of the closing of La Milanros upon the Barakian Education." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everybody. We've often asked ourselves where is the head physician of education, where is Mrs. Uriart? Not at the Board of Education, because we find ourselves in terrible difficulties in answering our journals, because we see no negotiations with the workers, because we see that there is no negotiation, not because in Barakdo, not in front of the closing of the La Milanese College, instead of looking for solutions, you'd rather wash your hands and pass the responsibility over to others and condemn the Milanese College to the close. In fact, it's hard to track the head of the Board of Education. It's not easy to find the chief physician. At least we're here today and we're grateful for your presence. Be happy if you would answer the following question, which has been proposed: Does the Board of Education believe that the closing of La Milanros improve the offer of education in Barakal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u75	Mrs. President of Parliament. Lady Ubera, as you know, on the 16th of January, 2017, Sisters of Mercy, the school headliner, the pacted school, the school manager of the college with private headlines and private management, made request that they should be allowed to act formally in the land of Biscay. From that time on we have discussed this legislature in a long and broad discussion, and have also brought in a detailed report about all the steps we have taken on this subject. On February 3rd, as I explained in this whole gathering, we've worked from the first time that the Board of Education heard of this subject, and we're still at work to help us find the best way to education. We have maintained and are maintaining contacts and meetings with all the actors involved. In addition, as I transferred in my appearance on 13 March to the Education Commission, it is our obligation and main concern as the Department of Education to protect at all times the right to education of our children, ensuring that they are enrolled on time and that they can schedule the necessary adjustments to achieve an adequate educational response. To which we have committed ourselves and continue to commit ourselves as a government bet. In this sense, we have already transferred in this appearance that, once the deadline for admission is closed for the course 2017/2018, in the municipality of Barakaldo there are plenty of places to enrol all the students who had not yet executed any choice: in the IES Minas for DBH even in the Rontegi itself, but also in Juan Ramón Giménez, model B, if they want. With them, less than a month ago, the Board of Education was at the 3rd of May, and discussed and approved the other proposal as well as that of La Milanrosa College. The reports, disputes, examinations, and agreements of this subject have, therefore, been frequent. And the parliament itself has made a decision about the Milanese.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u77	You haven't answered me, Mrs. Grearte. I'm asking you if the Milanros lock improves the Barabal education offer. Because if it doesn't improve, then it's clear that you need to be involved in it. And you didn't get involved, you didn't get involved! There's no discussion! You haven't taken any high-ranking operators! There was no negotiation or conversation, no agreement! And all you've done is turn back, wash your hand and pass responsibility to the others. And what you've done is, with the indefinable support of the PSE and the Populative Party, close a school. Lock a school! And if the situation of education in Barcelona was already complicated, now you put it more complicated. Is that what the Board of Education has to encourage in high education? Is that the standard education development conditions, Mrs. Uriart? This was the right time to shake hands on the unit of education in Barcelona, to give an answer to the needs that exist. We've got to take advantage of the problems we've got to solve and turn around the complex situation we're in. But no, you always go the opposite way. In every place, the same resources are not needed to develop a quality education project. Las desigides requie's una respusta dei, para vantizar laild de portentunides de todas las persons. Let's see if you learn, if you can learn, and I'm afraid you haven't behaved properly there. This is not the position of a head of the Board of Education. And again it was manifest, that ye have been doing throughout the whole legislative, and in the preprejudicing of the legislative; He turned his back on his families, to his pupils, to his education, to his teachers, and left them at the far end of the road. And what we're asking you to change your mind, please. We'll make another contribution. We'll put another proposition on the table and really check it out. We'll discuss it if you want, because here we've been the only ones who've put the contributions on the table, who've been willing to discuss, who've been ready for the interview, to negotiate and give us the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u79	We've been with all the mods, yes. In response to your question, Mrs Ubera, as I indicated in my previous speech, a few months ago the Proposition no to Law 55/2017 was adopted in relation to the educational centre La Milagrosa according to the following text: "The American law wants to do the necessary managements of Barakaldo La Milgrosa to ensure the continuation of the Barakal La Milgrosa school, if the notation remains and the modern workers of the school and the parent society are to form a cooperative community, and take over the chastity of the school. If you check those terms, you're asked to hear the RedMork request a time of transition so that you can try to find an opportunity to use a part of the Minas Building for a temporary period, as long as it is always compatible with the already planned use." To this day there is no formal request from any collective or institution for the formation of any alternative to the assumption of the educational project of the center. That is, it has not been accredited that the centre will continue with any ownership, so the requested cessation of activity follows its course. To fill the transitoryness mentioned by the other law, to give us the best educational answer, we have taken the necessary measures, and we are taking them. Thus we have left the opportunity to retire under the process of license plates, if any association should take the responsibility of the project. Moreover, the planning of the place has been made unusually, including special measures; as, a 10% of the ration of families and special education-premeditations within the term. Some schools have already asked us to give this measure, to facilitate the license, and to give an answer to family specific application. And if there's no other order to go to the project, then he's sure to give all the students the best school. Mrs Ubera, you want a headline who blames the government, when this department has taken care to provide solutions and to comply with what has been agreed in this very Parliament. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Please, all of you, when the chief physician or someone is speaking, please be quiet. Let each one speak for himself. Please, I beg you! The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interface, the members of Laura Garridio Knörr Eupilla Group to the head of the Medical Department, plan for the prevention of childhood." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, chief officers. We bring a very important subject here today. To have too much confidence and weight in our public health is a serious problem. It's more than a sanitary problem. We can say it's a social problem. That's why, because it's a social problem, it's from an integral point of view that we have to look into different compounds. Obesity and overweight are a public health problem, more prevalent in the countries of southern Europe, and it can be said that it is more than a health problem. It is a social problem related to the cultural level, to economic resources, to living conditions, to the family environment, to the environment in which one lives. Therefore, this problem needs to be addressed from an integral perspective. It is therefore a cross-cutting problem that affects very different areas: education, social and health. Child obesity is linked to increased mortality and morbidity in adults, and clearly conditions the emergence of serious and chronic diseases. Esan dezakegu obesityk gaixotasun asko dakartzala etorkizunean. Cases of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, stroke, even some types of cancer. Nor should we forget the burdens on the health system, the social system and the economy in general. We are talking about an impact of 2.5 billion euros per year. Prevention is considered to be the most effective weapon. Esan dezakegu foresaw her Hoberan baliabide. And since obesity is a public health problem (its association is clearly linked to other diseases both in childhood and in adulthood), as well as its high prevalence, it makes it necessary to have intervention. It is urgent to detect the problem at an early age, and to resolve it, therefore, at an early stage. Es impercindible la adquisición de wells hábitos de vida, tant en la alimentición como en la painta del ejejiciio físico. It is therefore advisable to detect them in children and quickly to repair them, to encourage good habits of life, to exercise, and to encourage wholesome nourishment. There are numerous studies I give for the fact that the department and the counselor themselves know, that they have handled. The last of them is the study Aladino 2015 (the previous study was that of 2011), where children from six to nine years old from all autonomous communities participate, and I also think we can congratulate ourselves, because the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has participated with a large number of schools, compared with the participation in addition to other autonomous communities. Spain, through the Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Security and Nutrition (Aecosan) and the NAOS strategy, participates in the COSI initiative, in line with the line of collaboration with WHO. This participation has resulted in the completion of the study mentioned above, the study of growth surveillance, food, physical activity, child development and obesity (the Aladino study). It is true that this 2015 study shows the trend that the prevalence of obesity has stabilized and that of overweight has decreased. Overweight has increased from 26.2% to 23.2%, and obesity, as I said, has also stabilized. We have to say that Euskadi is among the autonomous communities with a lower obesity rate. It is not the lowest, because we are won by Balearics and Catalonia, but we believe that we must continue to push for measures that can help alleviate childhood obesity, especially by promoting healthy practices in relation to eating and physical exercise. Measures that continue to be promoted at the state level, such as the strategy for nutrition, physical activity and obesity prevention, known, as previously stated, by NAOS strategy; the code of co-regulation of food advertising; Act 17/2011 of 5 July, on food security and nutrition. In 2012, the Strategy for Health Promotion and Prevention should be highlighted in the context of addressing chronicity in the National Health System; the creation and implementation of the Observatory for Nutrition and Obesity Studies; and the Comprehensive Plan for Physical Activity and Sport. And this year, as the minister announced in a recent inquiry, the national collaborative plan for improving the composition of food and drink will be promoted. WHO stresses the need to involve all public administrations in awareness-raising and prevention. In this sense, in the area already in the Basque Country, the 2013-2020 Health Plan in objective 2.8 referred to obesity, and among the actions it talked about developing interventions for the diagnosis, treatment and individualized follow-up of obese people. On the other hand, objective 4.3 specifically talked about childhood and youth obesity, and already among the actions was the opportunity to draw up a plan for the prevention of measures based on physical activity and healthy eating. Recently, the government program signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which make up the Government of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, talks about promoting a plan for the prevention of childhood obesity, with measures based on information, health education, physical activity and healthy eating, with the aim of raising awareness of society and establishing guidelines for action for its prevention. We, too, in line with the approaches taken by WHO, consider it necessary to implement a plan for the prevention of childhood obesity, with concrete measures, as soon as possible. And in this regard, we ask the Health Adviser whether it is the Department of Health's objective to develop a plan for the prevention of childhood obesity before the end of this year. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u82	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, it's your turn to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u83	Thank you. Mrs. President, Congressman, Mrs Garrido, good morning to all. As you've said, 'Medon' has planned to prevent the child's obsident in the government program of this law, not because we have a problem, but to prevent the obsity that has already become a serious problem in some countries. For we have a clear concept: health in all politics. From this Illus, we think we ought to consider the causes of the causes of differences. That is to say, we must place the child's ovational plan. They have heard me mention the concept of health in all policies on many occasions. And it is that the only way to manage health in the general population, and the problem of overweight and obesity in particular, is in society as a whole. Euskadi has a health system of quality, solidarity, equity and effectiveness, but to eliminate health inequalities it is necessary to reduce the causes underlying a significant number of risk factors. Health professionals, especially in primary care, have been working for years on these risk factors to intervene on what has been called "causes of causes". For the Department of Health, the promotion and prevention of health is particularly important; therefore, we insist and have initiatives to promote healthy lifestyles and habits in relation to tobacco, alcohol, physical exercise or food, among others. I guess today no one is surprised to hear that obesity has become a public health problem in an important part of the world. Obesity is the most visible and immediate consequence of poor food and lack of physical activity, and through the World Health Organization, a fifth of the world's population is expected to be obese by 2025, which has led international agencies and Governments to propose strategies and take action. This is what's happening. In addition, the relationship between food and health status is indisputable. Currently, a high percentage of chronic diseases are related to or may be aggravated by eating habits, the presence of certain toxics and components in foods, certain nutritional deficiencies or the absence of physical exercise. It is therefore essential to make coordinated efforts in all areas of society to achieve changes in lifestyles and a change in trend towards obesity. The Health Department of the Basque Government, consciously, included a specific objective among the objectives of the 2013-2020 Health Plan, and I read: "The design and implementation of a healthy eating strategy that takes into account social inequalities, and especially gender inequalities". Soon we will be in a position to present with greater level of detail the project "Initiatives for a healthy diet in Euskadi". This is a programme that we are developing in a coordinated way with other institutions, collective and creative as well; a programme that we will launch to respond to specific objectives and measures related to diseases associated with people's food. To achieve these objectives, the plan will have five lines of action, which in turn will develop various projects. Because the Health Plan, in addition to including among its objectives the design and implementation of a healthy eating strategy, also has a specific objective, and I will also read: "Reducing childhood and youth obesity through a prevention plan with measures based on physical activity and healthy eating". As I said earlier, these policies must be addressed in a cross-cutting way, in coordination with other departments and institutions and also with civil society. Thus, from our most direct area of competence, the approach to childhood obesity, especially from primary care, is carried out as set out in the preferential offer of the contract-programme, with concrete indicators relating to the measurement of size, weight, calculation of body mass index, etc. We are also working on collaborative arrangements with the food and hospitality industry for the reduction of sugars, saturated fats and salt in pre-prepared foods. We are also promoting nutrition education and healthy lifestyles in the family, school and community environments. Therefore, and in order not to expand further, Mrs Garrido, I thank you for bringing this issue to the parliamentary debate. I think it's important and it transcends the Department of Health itself. And I also thank you for the interpellation. As you know, this Government is committed to developing initiatives for a healthy eating strategy and a plan to prevent childhood obesity. And, taking advantage of the rostrum, I also invite you to encourage the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, in addition to awareness-raising campaigns, to continue to deepen other initiatives throughout the State. Edozein kasutan, lehen esan dudan bezala, guk bai egingo dugu haurren obesity prebenitzeko plan bat, gizartea kontzientziatzeko eta obesity prebenitzeko gardenbideak ezarriko dituen flata, hain zuzen ére. A plan to prevent childhood obesity whose main objectives will be to raise the awareness of society about the problem and to establish an area with guidelines for action, both for health professionals and for patients, family members and community agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u84	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Counsellor, for the answer, also for the tone. And, well, I will encourage the minister, as well as this interpellation intended to encourage you in relation to the commitments made not only in the Health Plan. In addition, I believe it was a milestone in this House, because it was a plan unanimously approved in this House, and it is true that with multiple contributions collected at least from this group; a plan that is valid for seven years, 2013-2020. Therefore, as I said, this inquiry is motivated by encouraging this government and the advisor himself to comply with the Health Plan, the health plan forecasts, which we are already in 2017 and was approved in 2013, and also the forecasts and commitments made in the government program. I agree, Mr. Counsellor, health in all policies. That is why I mentioned in my first speech that the issue of obesity, and specifically child obesity, transcends the health sphere, and that it is necessary to promote comprehensive policies that cover different areas. I also agree that it is necessary to promote everything that has to do with health promotion and prevention (and I am convinced of that), and above all that these policies have an important impact on the health system, since when we talk about prevention we are talking about preventing future diseases, about costs also to the health system, about impacts on the quality of life of the citizens themselves. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced to promote everything that has to do with physical exercise, with healthy lifestyles. It seems to me very well, therefore, Mr. Counsellor, the commitment to bring here the healthy eating strategy also contemplated in the Health Plan itself and in the government programme itself, but the truth is that this inquiry sought to address a more specific objective, which is what has to do with childhood obesity. And child obesity has an impact on issues that have to do with food, but it also has a specific impact all that is linked to the sedentary lifestyle of children, of people of early age. It has to do with questions of nutrition, but also with questions of practice of physical exercise and sedentaryness. I am therefore pleased, Mr Councillor, that on the one hand you have made a commitment to bring us this healthy feeding strategy, but I also hope that you will make a commitment in relation to this plan to address the problem of childhood obesity, which, as the data say, although we are on the right track, much remains to be done. The impact is there and the studies too, and the figures also I think they speak for themselves. Therefore, let us hope that this is also a reality in Euskadi, this plan to address the prevention of childhood obesity. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Chief Physician, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u87	Garrido anderea, benetan pozte nau gai honetan ados egoteak. As I have said, ovities and diseases connected with it have increased in the last decades. That's why we're clear that we have to work on this area through a definite plan. It will be our aim to reduce the obsence of children and young men from physical exercise and healthy nourishment. As we have been discussing, in Euskadi, as in all developed societies in our environment, the percentage of overweight children and adolescents has increased in recent decades, and, although we are relatively better than others, it is still a major problem. The Aladino study, referred to in the first intervention, a study on the prevalence of obesity 2015, shows in Euskadi that the obesity rates of boys and girls are considerably below the state average. Even so, in particular, the prevalence of overweight and obesity is 34% in Euskadi, one in three (this is therefore a major problem), and the state average is 41%. If we focus only on childhood obesity and rule out overweight, which is the most important problem, we see that childhood obesity in Euskadi is 11%, while the state average is 18%. Still, with one in ten boys or girls, it's a theme to make the case you deserve. And, of course, we are not going to settle for our situation to be much better than in countries like the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom... , mainly the Anglo-Saxon world. Therefore, one of the commitments made for this legislature, in the government program agreed with the Basque Socialist Party, has been that we will develop a specific plan for the prevention of childhood obesity. However, we felt it necessary to draw up and present first the strategy for healthy eating, which will constitute the general framework and which I hope to present in a few weeks. In any case, once the healthy eating strategy is completed, we will also bring and initiate development and address the plan for the prevention of childhood obesity, the main objectives of which will be to remove the problem from the Department of Health and bring it to society in general and to the rest of the institutions, and to establish a guide with guidelines for health professionals, yes, but also involve patients, family members and community agents. One of the planned initiatives we have, is the update, which we will call 360 degrees, in school dining rooms. For no one escapes that today there are many boys and girls who eat every day outside the house, in a school dining room. We intend to influence the consumption they have in these places to improve the eating habits of the child population, among other reasons for the large number of children involved, for the age at which they develop the eating tastes and habits that are then maintained in adulthood, and because we are also aware that the eating habits and tastes of our children have a significant influence on the food and preparation of the whole food of the rest of the family. But we must make it clear that this is a complex issue, that it needs to be addressed not only from the health field, and I will insist again, and that we must involve all areas, especially the family, the education and the most complex, the food industry. All this with the aim of preventing childhood obesity. In short, returning to the initial message, health in all policies. Today, one of three kids has problems with fatty. Osence has been accepted as a public problem at OMS's. We can't just say that we're in the front of a serious problem, but it's just about the importance and the need of this Eukadin. That's why we're designing a program of healthy nourishment, and that's why after this program we'll develop a specific plan to prevent children and young men's obsence. So, Mrs Garrido, we're working. We've committed and we'll do it, but each thing has to take its own rhythm and order if we want the results to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u88	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "Ju Louis Urana Serano, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, concerning the collapse of the emergency hospital in the Home Hospital of the UUA Bar. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u89	Egun on, Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Egun on, Sailburuak. Egun on, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament. One does not feel well, of course, after the previous point, due to his own overweight, but well, let's make an effort. The zurrumurru is heard in the halls that our president is going to set up a gym in Parliament, so that the hours we put in sitting and sitting are gradually eliminated. Well, I bring a simple problem, Health Advisor, Mr. Jon Darpón, which is the collapse of the emergency room at the Santiago hospital, which we wrote in February. Conditions have changed, but I have not withdrawn the question because some matters remain. And some serious issues for the image of Osakidetza, which we defend all and all who are here. These things we heard: "We are also collapsed. I don't remember so many people at the same time in the emergency of the Santiago hospital in twenty-four years that I've been working here," said a doctor. You knew that the hospital of Santiago, in the reorganization of Álava, of the hospital complex, has an emergency, and the hospital of Txagorritxu has other emergencies: twenty-eight boxes and 220 citizens of average care in Txagorritxu, six boxes and approximately 140 patients of average care in Santiago. It is the flu, almost every type A, that chronic and elderly patients are complicated by respiratory failure, pneumonia, sepsis... And many died. 140 patients, with peaks of more than 170. Press, February 14, all of Álava's press: sitting people, older people... What's going on? That the emergency service of Santiago is a reference for all Álava of polytrauma, stroke, neurological problems, and people over seventy years of age. All resuscitation beds are occupied all the time. It is a small space to offer quality care to patients. The collapse was established at 11:30 every day, every January and February. The staff was increased and the number of boxes doubled, from six to twelve: more space, more professionals, more hourly coverage. It seems that the seasonal, the cyclical, is not so. It seems that the staffing and resource adjustment we had was resolved and maintained. Why? Because the templates that were renewed each week have been maintained, and the beds and units of evolution in particular, which doubled Santiago's capacity, have been maintained. I mean it seems – and this is the first question – that the short-term is not short-term, but is structural. And thanks to the doubling of the capacity of the Santiago hospital in its emergencies some problems that we will comment on what I have then have been maintained. In this reflection of what is short-term and structural I would like you to give us your opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u91	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Uria, in fact, I don't know how reasonable it is to answer this question now. I mean, in your question, you're talking about a very punctual saturation that you've spent in January because of the flu. As you know, we gave all the explanations of this matter with precision on March 21st of the Medical Committee. As I said, on 21 March we attended the Health Commission by the Director of Public Health, the Director of Health Care, the coordinator of the Osakidetza Public Health Programme and myself, and I believe that in all detail we set out the measures taken to deal with last year's flu epidemic. As was explained then, with more time than in these four minutes, I will tell you that thanks to the planned contingency plan, the extraordinary measures taken according to the epidemic peak, the professionalism of the Osakidetza workers, the influenza epidemic that affected Euskadi this year was faced. As I know you're a good movie fan, when you came out here, it seemed to me that you were confusing last year's flu epidemic with Francis Ford Coppola's film "Apocalypse Now". But no, that's not what happened. Horrela, Uria jauna, hartutako neurriei esker eta Osakidetzako langileen profesionaltasunari eta inpikazioari esker, aurtengo flu-kanpainari era aurre egin diugu. We will plan as every year a new contingency plan for next year, and, as you have already appointed, we are proceeding to reform part of the Alava emergency services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u92	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u93	If you'll excuse me... I have asked you a question, Mr. Counsellor: whether the increase of three professionals, who do not renew the contract every week, has been stabilized as a reinforcement staff, as part of the emergency structure of the Santiago Hospital, and the six new modules that are being expanded in the so-called Evolution Unit, which has been confirmed to be a staff that is structural, not cyclical for the epidemic, if that reflection does not apply to other sites of our units, where really in the adjustment of resources, the adjustment of templates, there is a request by theme of the need for reinforcement and adequate care. Right now we have peaks at Santiago Hospital. I hope there's no accident, because every polytrauma, every person over seventy years old from Álava and every person with neurological problems goes to the emergency room of the hospital in Santiago. I hope there is no serious problem of accidents, for example traffic, because we still have four hours of average waiting in people who are waiting to be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Chief, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u95	Mr. Uria, let's put things back. If we speak of flu, we must make it clear that there is no such thing as when the flu will arrive in the world, how long it will last, and what manner of influence it will have. Consequently, it is very difficult to know exactly the resources which may be necessary to deal with each grape criterion. However, the Medical Department and the Osacides took several measures, including the rest of them, to adapt themselves to more boxes, hired more human resources, and set up more beds. And I want you to know that, instead of looking at the front of the flu, we're working to deal with the next flu and to get ahead of several other plans, action, and activity. I sincerely hope that you will not spend four years turning to the flu epidemic of 2016, and I hope that we will not have an unpredictable accident, which can happen at any time, as you know, as when you were managing the Barrualde-Galdakao region. And I sincerely hope that, far from demagogy, you will put a little more work into it, because you are asking me about a December problem last year. I am very aware that everything is likely to improve, how not, in a system as large and complex as the Basque health system, but I assure you that not everything is the cuts you say, not everything is money. It's planning and management, for a long time. I assure you that we work every day with the goal of continuous improvement, also, of course, in emergency services. In Araba's emergencies we will pass – and we are in the works – from eight to twelve boxes, and in the trauma rooms from four to eight. The works are expected to be completed these weeks, and, as you well know, we have planned it. In addition, at Txagorritxu headquarters, the new General Service building, when completed, will have 67 boxes and 20 consultations only for emergencies, all with the aim of improving the quality of health care and the care of Alaves patients, regardless of agrarian conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Casanova Alonso Presidency Society for Tourism, commerce, and Constunam, with the housing of the tourists, and the inns in the private rooms of the tourist housing." Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u97	Hello, good afternoon to all. Good afternoon, Mr. Retortillo, chief physician. First of all, we need to say that we don't know what you're going to tell us and how you're going to answer us about our interaction around the tourists. We don't know how you're going to be from contact, but we have to tell you in time, and it's that you're late. You are late in considering the centrality of this subject, the level of its preference, and the level of its promotion, because society and the legislature had already to know what kind of action it is about, what kind of inquiry it is about, what diagnosis it is that it makes, and what strategy it wants to put on the table. I don't know if this is a priority. As you know, and we all know, at the end of the law, Turism law was tested, and the Tourism Act was a reason for testing with a first-class procedure that this new state of tourists should be given a legal and legal solution to this new state of tourists. It was made of that first nature and six months after you got into the fun of it, we still don't know what you're going to do in front of a reality that's visible. And this reality is that a law of regulating this complex phenomenon has been started, but that the law is not applied and that there are endless gaps and deficiencies in application to the law. It's a complex phenomenon of tourists. The new reality, perhaps not so new, but it has still a female reality and its good side and its negative side. In the midst of the benefits we may say that the chance of declorating the tourist weights is the possibility of turucating the Tourism; for, without having very heavy substructures, to the most unusual places where Tourism can go, to the particular weights. There's also a chance of making money, to use a lot of people as an extra source of money. And from the point of view of the tourist experience, it may be a new experience that allows you to go to certain neighborhoods where life is home property or non-existent. There are benefits, and therefore we believe that there must be an offer of tourists and this offer of logels in particular weights. But there are risks, too, and we know them. Although the centralization of Turism may be induced, the contrary phenomenon is the case in practice and de facto; The concentration of turbism in many places, which are the most desirable, or tourists. And with this centralization of tourism, it often comes to the same extent as that of the common inhabitants. It's true that the development of a tourist activity in a private apartment may be uncomfortable for other neighbors. And as well as what is supposed to be a rental for tourists, there may be more business for tourists to make rents and not for common neighbors. And so also the multiplication of the offering of Alocation may suppose a Mascation, and this contrary effect of the Euscal tourism model, which we all defend in theory, is clearly to be avoided. We wanted to know, and we asked a few questions, how he saw it, and what composition it was, the composition of the government. That's why we asked a few questions about this thing. We asked you how many units there are already registered. You told us about 1200. We asked you how many you thought, it's true-and it's true that they really exist, it's one thing they're registered, and what they're really offering de facto. And you told us you don't have any regard. There were other places where I liked them, but it seems to me that I didn't. We also asked how many investigators and how many people are actually registered or whether the housing is fulfilling the law, and you said that there are six of us. And we also asked how many criminal procedures are still working and not one of those you told us. Reality, as I said, different. It's only in Donost that 600 units are registered and it's estimated that 1,700 units are available on websites that are public. We've been doing a little exercise and we've checked in other places how many units are registered and how many are dedicated to practice. And it's not a very difficult exercise. You enter a website, and you look at it. The following example: Barakaldo. Six units registered, 14 units registered. We've done the same exercise in other countries: 5 are registered, La Bastian, 2, 13; Bakion 3, 24. We see that there is a remarkable difference between the census of the housing and those who are publicly offered. And we have a tourism law that precisely comes to give legal instruments to give an answer to this reality, to avoid the massification of tourism, to avoid the illegal offer, to avoid that no taxes are paid in the development of an economic activity, to give the municipalities tools to correct the possible harmful effects of the indiscriminate proliferation of this type of housing. The law is already in place. There is a law which in its article 27 defines as clandestine activity that which has not made a responsible declaration of commencement of activity in the relevant register of the Basque Government. There is an article 94 which defines this type of clandestine activity as a serious offence. And there is Article 100, in its subparagraph (b), which states that serious penalties may be payable for fines of between EUR 10,01 and EUR 10,00. We have the instruments. We also have an additional seventh provision (because it's not all about coercive measures or punishments), an additional seventh provision that says that we need to work with the actors in the sector to prevent such a clandestine offer. And we are not just talking about punishing; we are also talking about preventing, incorporating, making accomplices to people, in the positive sense of expression, making accomplices in the sense of giving this phenomenon of tourist flats a status of legality for which there is already a way, and to avoid that they are clandestine and that they are an unfair competition. So, we have some instruments, we have a law that maybe in a few years we have to say "Well, well, it hasn't worked," but we haven't even been able to implement this law at the moment. And we have to face a clandestine offer of tourist apartments that, curiously, offers a very curious kind of underground, because, as we said, it is offered directly on the internet. It is a public underground, and therefore there is no technical difficulty in detecting where those floors are being offered that are not regularized. I mean, I've said before that I've looked at Barakaldo's offerings, which is my people. And if a Japanese tourist can find a flat that is offered at Bagatza Square in Barakaldo, I understand that the Basque Government must also have the resources to detect that flat and, therefore, hold its owner or manager responsible..., first aware that there is a legality that must be complied with, and, if that legality is actually not complied with, hold him accountable in the terms that the law establishes. And, therefore, what we understand is that, although the phenomenon affects in a different way to each of the localities of this country, according to the typology they have in relation to the tourist field, and obviously the epicenter of the problem or the phenomenon of the tourist floors, understood as a problem, is fundamentally in Donostia, and in other places it is not a problem, but it can contribute to what it said precisely... For in Barakaldo, if tourists come, welcome will be, and there you have to develop areas of tourism other than the more conventional tourism, but they can also have room. And, indeed, in some places, these kinds of offers are very welcome, and in other places they are generating obvious problems of saturation, and problems that are already perceived beyond the political sphere, even by citizens themselves. Therefore, we consider that at this point – and that is why I was initially telling you that it is already late – this being an absolutely priority issue for the department you run, we had to have a diagnosis for a long time on the table. And if we don't have all the data we could have estimates, that you have the right training for that, and know that what is clandestine is not registered and you can't count what is in the Basque Government's registry, but you can estimate it. Man, if the ratio is three to one, between what is recorded and what is actually offered, then we can calculate: if the recorded are thousand and peak dwellings, at least three thousand, four thousand, five thousand... That is, an estimate, which may be prudent, but we need an estimate of how many homes there are, how many are within the law and how many are outside. And we need a strategy for housing that is out of the law to become within the law. And we also need to devote, from your department, the resources necessary for a flagrant violation of a law that captures the interests of all parties, also of those who make a legal offer of this kind of accommodation, so that a law will end up being applied. It is imperative that his Government conduct a census of housing that is being offered, as defined by law, clandestinely informing its owners of the need to regulate this situation, and that, in the event that such regularization does not occur, they be punished. Because we want to provide a legal housing service, to provide tax resources and also to provide transparency on the real dimension of the sector, so that then the municipalities... And, in fact, through a measure by Euskal Herria Bildu, the law makes an express reservation to the right of municipalities to be able to legislate from the urban sphere if there is saturation or no saturation. For that, a firm or reliable knowledge of what is the reality is necessary. You have to intervene, because already, as I said before, you are late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Retortillo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The question that brings to the debate Mr Casanova's question is certainly an interesting one, although I must also say that it is formulated in some points from questionable premises, and in others from accusations that not only surprise me but I must reject. Mr. Casanova asks that to see what I intend to do to properly apply the Tourism Law, to which, if it were not because it can be interpreted as rudeness, I could answer quite simply: "Implegate it". And end with the Cervantine shambles "The hat fell, the sword required, he looked at the shambles, gone, and there was nothing." But I won't do that. I have heard some times in this Parliament that of "I already knew I was not going to convince you", or "The truth is that I have not come here to convince you", but I, and it is not daring, do not give up doing it with your lordship. He points out in his question that the Basque Parliament approved on 28 July last year the Tourism Act 13/2016, and that one of the reasons for drafting this law was the regulation of the rental of houses and rooms between private individuals, offering a legal framework for this activity, developed until then without control. In fact, regulatory control was abolished in 2008. Act No. 6/1994 on the organization of tourism already regulates tourist accommodation, which was abolished in 2008. It draws attention to the justification that was made at that time to leave them out of the norm. Thus says the exhibition part of Law 16/2008: "The presence of other figures of accommodation complementary to hotel accommodation, such as holiday tourist accommodation and accommodation in private houses (...), have a reduced implantation in Euskadi (...); they are presented as a product poorly aligned with the new model of tourist development conceived for Euskadi, based on quality, sustainability and the valorization of our cultural, rural and landscape values". Eight years ago. As Don Hilarion says, times change that it is barbarity: eight years later a new Tourism Law is passed with tourist homes as the main precipitator. Whatever the case, the Tourism Act of 2016 includes as new accommodation arrangements those that occupy us, the houses and the rooms in private houses for tourist use. Certainly the regulation of these figures is adapting to a changing reality, very changing I would say, as shown by the succession of previous modifications. On the other hand, following the European guidelines, in particular the Bolkestein Directive, the new Tourism Act of 2016 contains the responsible declaration regime. Thus, the law must ensure that anyone can provide tourism services in Euskadi without any requirement other than the prior submission of the responsible declaration. The entry into the tourist administration of this declaration has two important consequences: one, it enables its holder to start the tourist activity; two, it is registered in the Register of Companies and Tourist Activities of Euskadi. We have, therefore, that in the inclusion of the new accommodation modalities in the 2016 law the issue of registration is of particular relevance through responsible declaration; a forecast to which you, Mr Casanova, referred in very positive terms. It draws attention to the fact that the law did not devote space to other substantive issues of the tourist regulation of the new accommodation modalities, relegating to the regulation such regulation without even articulating it in general terms. This is the case with the fixing of the maximum capacity and the maximum number of places, or with the operating regime and the requirements and conditions to be met by both types of tourist accommodation. But let us return to the question of registration, which is the cornerstone of the law regarding them. The register was a step forward, whereas instead of claiming that something did not exist by the procedure of not naming it, it was now given a letter of nature and submitted to positive law. However, it is no less true that when it comes to applying the regulation referred to in the register – I insist, the cornerstone of the law as far as tourist homes are concerned – when it comes to moving, I said, the legislator's forecasts to the reality of the facts has come up with some difficulty. The main result is that, instead of creating a single window system, the law seems to assign to the tourist administration control of compliance with all the requirements established. Specifically, with regard to tourist homes, the law expressly requires that the requirements of infrastructure, urban planning, construction and construction; safety; environmental requirements; health and consumption; occupational health and health are met in compliance with labour risk prevention regulations, as well as any other regulations that apply to them. Once the responsible declaration has been submitted, the tourist administration must verify the existence of inaccuracy, falseness or omission of an essential nature in the data contained therein, as well as the availability of the mandatory documentation or the failure to comply with the requirements which result from application. But when it comes to effectively exercising this function of control, collaboration with other administrations, essentially with the municipalities, is essential. This is because tourism matters are presented in conjunction with other municipal competences, and due respect for local autonomy must be ensured. In some respects, and perhaps as a means of providing for such participation, although not very effectively, the law goes on to regulate formal matters, requiring, for example, that dwellings for tourist use be granted a first-occupancy licence or a residence permit. This is a requirement that often reflects only the formal aspect of the matter (the provision of that document). Indeed, their possible non-compliance does not always reveal a lack of substantive or material order. In short, in order to carry out the activity of control of tourist homes, the Tourist Administration must necessarily have the competition and the collaboration of the Local Administration, whose report on the fulfilment of the requirements that affect its own competences cannot be supplemented by the Tourist Administration. For this reason, we are working both with the area of Urbanism and with the area of Tourism of the municipalities – in principle of the capitals and particularly that of San Sebastián, because it is the one with the greatest impact of these forms of accommodation, as you yourself have said – to then elaborate, together with Eudel, a protocol of action that allows the collaboration of the municipalities in the field of their competences for the validation of the register. Our will is to close this path as soon as possible, among other reasons because this is an essential prerequisite for dealing with situations of illegality, that is to say, those dwellings of tourist use that do not comply with the legal obligation to register. In any case, and referring now to this case, you mention in your inquiry, at least in which you have written, the number of the registration offered from the department on March 1 of this year: 1,003 registered dwellings. I must point out that today the register already has 1,563 tourist homes. In other words, monthly records continue to be produced, and in fact over the last three months the record has increased by more than 50%. As for the 1,700 dwellings offered only in Donostia, as he also indicates in his inquiry, from the two main platforms that market these types of dwellings (by the way, do not rule out that there are any duplicates), I will tell him that today a total of 826 dwellings are registered in Donostia, which also accounts for almost half of that figure. At this point I must add a precaution that I consider necessary in addressing this issue: the law has not provided for a transitional period that would facilitate compliance with the new legal regime. I do not think it would be reasonable to set the two-year period of adaptation that the Basque Country Foundations Act 9/2016 grants for the adaptation of statutes to its forecasts, but it does not seem to be possible to assume an instant registration, the day after the law came into force, in an activity that had remained in a situation of alleged existence since 2008. However, it is also necessary to intervene on that situation, in which we agree. I consider it a priority to solve the problem of registration and to collaborate with the municipalities in the promotion of municipal ordinances that address the problems that could arise in the area of tourist homes, but that does not mean that clandestine activity is ignored. In this sense, from the department we have been developing several avenues of action. Since February we have established contacts and meetings, and we continue to do so, with various actors involved in this issue, both private actors and marketing platforms (Airbnb), management companies (Aparture) or hotel associations, and with institutional agents (basically municipalities and outlying farms). Secondly, the regulatory development of the Tourism Act, committing for this year the drafting of decrees that affect the new forms of accommodation, which, as you know, do not yet exist. Thirdly, the design of a forthcoming information campaign on the mandatory registration of tourist homes and what it entails. And fourthly, awareness at the level of the municipalities about the need to modify or develop specific municipal regulations to regulate the impact of the new housing arrangements. We agree on the need to manage tourism well, in this case to manage the impact of the new accommodation arrangements. We're on it. The complex issues, you yourself have mentioned, are not addressed in the short term, not even with an exhaustive law – and this was not, in your own words – but I assure you that with the collaboration of the municipalities and the outside farms we will achieve it sooner than later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u101	Well, first of all, I have to thank you for having responded to this inquiry in person and not through the newspaper, as you answered the questions I asked you earlier and to which we have referred: just a week before the deadline that the law indicates that you should give me the answers, someone from your department leaked to a newspaper literally the answers to all the questions. Now at least you've come here in person. Although I am surprised by the initial tone of his answer, he says: "How do I apply the law? Then apply it." No, it's just that it's not being applied. And I'm not saying I'm doing it in bad or bad faith; what I'm empirically demonstrating is that the law isn't being enforced. Because the law requires that dwellings offering tourist rental apartments or tourist rental rooms must be registered and make a responsible declaration. And you said that then the government has to make a series of checks... Indeed, but once the responsible declaration is made, they are automatically incorporated into the register and the activity can be started. It is not, therefore, that these dwellings have tried to register and that as a result of the overwhelming administrative procedure they have not been able to access the status of registered dwellings; it is that these dwellings have not submitted the responsible declaration, and are therefore not complying with the law. So don't tell me you're applying the law. I can give you the benefit of the doubt and understand that it is not a lack of will, but de facto, empirically, it is proven – I have given you an example, and I can give you examples people to people –, not all the houses that are making a tourist rental offer are being registered, and therefore the law is not being complied with. And if it is not being fulfilled, and its duty is to enforce the law, you have to give an explanation; not to say here, in Cervantine Spanish or Esperanto, that it is complying with the law, and then it stays so pancho. No, it's not being fulfilled. And if resources are lacking, more resources will be needed. And if there is a need for coordination between the different administrations, then welcome are the explanations that you are giving us and that have had to be on the occasion of this inquiry, before a topic that creates... I am not going to say widespread social alarm, but at least in the sector it is generating a great deal of concern, and in some specific localities it is generating concern, beyond the specific sector, about the undesirable effects of the massing of tourism that we are already beginning to suffer. And I therefore believe that it was your responsibility not to wait for a parliamentary inquiry, but to be transparent and to come to this House, or, if you prefer, to a means of communication, and to explain what you have to do, or what you want to do. And then we'll see if he's doing well or bad, and we'll judge him on that, but at least now we see he's got a plan. He's got a plan. And on that plan, when we have it in writing, when we read the transcript of its presentation, or if it is going to be presented to us in more detail, we may also have to ask for its appearance in the Committee on Tourism and Trade, and in that regard we can already discuss it. But the case is that today there is a law that is not being applied. And I understand that at least at an early stage of law enforcement, i.e. in urging people who are offering this service in hiding, you have to take steps, and you can take steps regardless of whether you then have to check, coordinate between administrations and others. And those steps... It's been almost a year! The law has come into force now! There is no transitional period there: the law has entered into force. And from the entry into force of the law the activity is defined as clandestine. I have already told you that indeed, and bearing in mind that you do not seek to harm the person offering this service in good faith or to go with the fine ahead... That's not what you're looking for. What is sought is, in a prudent period of time, to end with a clandestine offer that involves fraud to the Treasury, that involves unfair competition to the people who are going through a window, and that deprives the municipalities of instruments of knowledge of their own reality, from which they can then regulate this phenomenon in one way or another. Because we have a problem in Donostia, where already 1.5% of the residential park is destined for tourist rental housing, and 5% in neighborhoods such as the center or Gros. 5% of the houses are already used for tourist rent, as 75% of the tourist flats in Donostia are concentrated in these areas. And this tells us that in certain aspects of tourism policy we are coming very close to the point of saturation. Not all over the country, obviously. And that brings us to another of those that should be the cross-cutting axis of tourism policy in this community, which is territorial and seasonal diversification. But in certain areas that ghost of Venice, which I believe is the ghost that now travels the world of tourism, of a city that is dead of tourist success, is already looking at some areas of the country. And in order to deal with this, for example, for the city council to be able to apply the urban regulations (the City of Donostia), or to establish a zoning in which certain areas are declared saturated, it is essential to have a precise knowledge of reality. And for that it is essential that everyone goes through the window. And there's already a law that provides that you have to pass, how you have to pass, and what if you don't pass through the window. And I'm asking you something so simple... And I thank you, indeed, for having made a global presentation of a plan beyond, but please, for something to be done so that anyone has to go through the window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u102	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u103	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Casanova, I told you at the beginning that there were statements that seemed questionable to me. It has slipped again some, like the one of tourist massification, or that we are reaching a point of saturation. It seems to me that we are not, by far, at a point of tourist saturation as a country. We're not at that point of tourist saturation. And in the case he mentions of Donostia effectively at some times, especially at some moments of the year (it is not the city itself, but at some moments of the year) and some areas of the city, actually suffer or have a pressure of tourism that should be regulated and that should be managed properly, so that we do not actually die of success. And in that task, as I said before, I absolutely agree with you. I agree with you too when you say that we should end up in a reasonable period of time with clandestine activity. What I am trying to prove to you is that in order to end clandestine activity, it is also necessary to have a register – if you say so, it is enough to make a responsible declaration – that effectively offers legal certainty to those who register, to those who submit that responsible declaration. And we're not in that situation. And we are not in that situation because in the management of that register the local institutions have not been taken into account, and yet we find ourselves – and it is the first complaint that was transmitted to me not only from local institutions, but also from the sector – with the fact that in the register they could appear houses that, according to the specific municipal regulations of each municipality, actually could not develop that activity. This resulted in a register that needed validation, which was not only for the tourist management, but also for the cooperation of the municipalities, because it fell within their competence, especially when this Tourism Act was passed three months after the adoption of the Local Institutions Act, which seeks to guarantee precisely local autonomy, from the Government or from higher institutions, in those processes that have to do with the scope of their competence. I don't know if I understand him or if I don't want to understand him. It seems to me that it only speaks to me, in relation to clandestine housing, only speaks to me – to put it this way – of a kind of police persecution: you have to go on a stick and try to get everyone to go through a responsible statement. Which, by the way, you said last year was a simple statement. This is a first point where I think it is important to move also pedagogy: when a citizen signs a responsible statement, he is signing a very important thing; it is not a simple statement. You see, the department has already done, it has already approved this inspection work of trying to locate and try to punish those who were engaged in or engaged in an illegal activity of tourist homes. It did so specifically in 2014, and it did so also in 2016, before the adoption of the law. And with what was the inspection service found when it performed that task? First, the difficulty of locating, because he couldn't find the houses. At most, he calculated the area of the city he was in, or even the portal, but not exactly the housing. When he located one, he called and couldn't find the owner of the house. If you found tourists, tourists (first the inspection has to identify themselves as such) did not give you information. And, thirdly, he did not find the collaboration either of the very people who lived in the so-called tourist homes or of the neighbors. So the result was zero. Faced with this situation, recognizing that there are indeed tourist homes in a situation of illegality, given this situation, from my point of view, the first thing we must do is to calibrate, validate the register, and have the cooperation of the local institutions and the farms outside. I believe that outland finances are the first fundamental element in controlling illegality and tax evasion; municipalities are the second fundamental element in managing the implementation of tourist homes. I know that some are already developing specific ordinances on the key to limiting the number of tourist homes, and I think that is the right direction. And, thirdly, to the Tourist Office, or to this department, what it has to do is to encourage – and we are doing so, I say, since February – collaboration, to arrive, as you said before, at a reasonable price, at the end of the clandestine offer, which is indeed a bad option for tourism and for the residential use of our cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Polomo team for Cultura and the head of the political department of the Arts of the Fair Arts of Petronor Bilbo, "about the Patronate of the Museum." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen. On the 23rd of May, 2017, there was an advertisement made between the signature of an association, between Petronor and the Museum of Fine Arts of the Union, and the patrician of this Museum Petronor. Even in the same ship, on the other hand, he was informed that the first performance of this co-worker would be like a grand exhibition, a temporal exhibition with the next title: "Colección Alicia Kolopwitz-Grupo Omega Capital." The opening of this show will be in the museum, in the BBK room, the next July 28th, and October 23rd. So the question is: What is this cooperation between Petronor and the Museum of Fair Arts of Bilbo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u106	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Chief, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u107	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Mr Martínez, Mr. Petronor, expressed his wish and intention to open some way of cooperation with the Museum of the Magic Arts of Bilbo, and after the association of the representatives of the two organizations, they decided to give way to a possible agreement, and so it was decided to make some special openings between the two organizations. This agreement has been given the appearance or shape of the Covenant; it will last four years, and be an occasion for four years, even four years, to enlarge it. In this language, Petroponor is engaged, and it will be an engagement to make a economic report of 4000,000 dollars, 100,000 years old. And from the importance of the contribution of the museum, Petror's patrono was admitted to confess. That special program that's going to be in 2017 to open a show called Colección Alici Kolotwitz-Grupo Omega Capital in the Magic Art Museum of Bilbo. It's a big operation, and in 2017 this year Petronor will make another contribution to 50,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u109	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria, for the explanation. The truth is, we're not too surprised by the explanations. As we expected, you have obviously defended an agreement and its economic factor. This is perfectly understandable, on the other hand, given the cultural policy – to call it something – on which the Government is betting, nothing different from that developed for years by the Basque institutions. A policy that has been based on the fundamentals of large agreements with multinational companies, based on a very narrow conception of the cultural phenomenon, and very interested in the business of building infrastructures that have proliferated in our urban landscape in recent decades. Companies that, as is well known, have significant deductions under the different forms of sponsorship; which, I take advantage of to comment, one day will have to be regulated in an autonomous law that at least harmonizes the existing rules. On the other hand, since you have not entered into the full detail of the agreement, we would like you to explain to us the tax deductions that it implies for Petronor, that is, what kind of deductions and how many thousands or hundreds of thousands of euros it will entail of tax benefit for this company. From the point of view of the interests of society and culture as we understand it, we believe that it is appropriate to know exactly what the net contributions made by the participating private entities (it is true that it has already given a series of data) in public areas, it is not going to be that public-private collaboration is in fact public for the private. What can you then tell us more in depth about the agreement, looking at the contributions and benefits it receives in terms of public image and propaganda, tax deductions or others. We would also be interested in you giving us some information that might correspond to Alicia Koplowitz's exhibition for the temporary exhibition she was talking about earlier. Recently the Mayor of Bilbao has declared that he has among his dreams and aspirations to make culture a sign of identity and engine of the economy of the villa. With this goal in mind, he recognized that among the plans for the future for the town of Baraja rescue the old aspiration to expand the Museum of Fine Arts. Is the mayor's dream also the dream of the Basque government and that of his department, is it a dream shared by the citizens, or are they going to start the propaganda machine to force us to dream? This way of conceiving cultural management is significant: from the top, without citizen participation, without accountability, and at the dawn of dreams of greatness, which many are usually of the appointed representative. But this commercialization of all cultural things, as we know, leaves aside many things: the conditions of cultural workers, the lack of support for basic culture, or the mechanisms to ensure that what is a right, access to culture, is effectively implemented. Are you going to benefit from the agreement with Petronor or the foundation of the billionaire Koplowitz on something to the precarious...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u110	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Your time is up. Please, your time is up. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u111	Mr. Martínez, you've asked me a particular question, asking me which of the prosecutor's advantages are the Petrors, and I'm not able to answer that. There is a general law, approved in Biscay, which is the public, and will apply to it. Being the patronos of the Bilbo Museum, the advantages it gives to the corporations who have entered it are known, there is transparence and they are on the museum web page. There's a chance of being at the patrone among the things that come in exchange, and it's given some honorable walks to make the corporations use them. There's a few free invitations to the museum to those companies. Competities have their way of showing and showing their image in the acts and publications of museums, and receive invitations to introductions and special events. There are nine patronos like this at this moment in the museum's path. In the area of the Alicia Kolopating exhibit, the budget the museum has predicted is 4000,000 dollars. Half this will be paid in the transports and insurance required to mount the show, and not, not, Alia Koloidwitz, nor his company, will receive any compensation from these works. I think it's a big opportunity for the museum. Because for the first time in a private way, it's a kind of exhibit like this in all its width. There have been works in Paris, and now they're coming to Bilbor. It was 53 in Paris, and Bilbo is going to be above 90. There are therefore many of these works in a public manner for the first time. And this collection, I think, is of great value from an artistic point of view, both from the works of painting and also from sculpture. And I think there's a chance to enjoy culture and I'm inviting you, Mr Martínez, to meet that wonderful show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u112	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group to the head of Security, to investigate the thefts in the mountains of the Arababa." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u113	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselors, counselors, good morning. Well, we want to gather information. We're already trying to do it... In response to a parliamentary question concerning the commission of thefts on certain administrative boards, villages of the Alavesa Mountain Quadrilla, the Basque Government stated in the answer that both the modus operandi and other characteristics of these facts make the Ertzaintza, the Laguardia police station in particular, work on the assumption that it is the same authorship, an organized group of great mobility that has subsequently also participated in similar thefts from border areas. We have already seen in the answer, and after our contact with those affected, that these thefts have occurred primarily in certain villages, in certain administrative boards (here is Peñacerrada, or Baroja, or some other villages), and that they have occurred fundamentally in public facilities. Indeed, there have been thefts, some money has been taken, they have also destroyed, which means that the damage, without being spectacular damage, has had an impact on the economy of the administrative boards, as may be the case in the case that it affects individuals, or municipalities, has had an important, and above all qualitative, impact. We see again that there are times when this way of acting of the evildoers takes place in isolated areas, in rural areas, and this situation shows the difficulty of sometimes guarding public and private property in certain areas of Álava (we have also seen that there are special plans of the Ertzaintza in relation to the barracks, the baserris of Gipuzkoa), in this case in particularly isolated and rural areas. And in that regard, following the information that you have transmitted to us, we ask you for information on what measures the Department of Security will take to prevent further thefts in the Alavesa Mountain and in the rural and isolated areas of Álava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, what measures will Ertzaintza take? What he is going to continue to do is what he has done so far, and he does what he has to do: investigate, obtain evidence, arrest and bring to justice the alleged perpetrator of some of the thefts and thefts that have occurred in Alavesa Mountain and other rural areas of Euskadi. But, unfortunately, I'm afraid it's not what interests you the most, in view of how they've carried this issue. They seem to be more interested in generating a certain alarm, I don't know, in ringing that bell permanently, so that it looks like there's a lot of bells protesting about this very issue. I have already informed in writing, in fact, last Friday, of the amount and status of these subtractions, six subtractions in different villages of the Alavesa Mountain Quadrilla, and two frustrated attempts. The case is already clarified, the Ertzaintza continues to do its work, I insist, and will continue to do everything it has to do, less generate unfounded alarms and generate distorted perceptions of what reality is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u116	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u117	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. I find that you prejudge what my intention is or what we are generating. If I have asked you a parliamentary question, after another, after another in writing where we identify the problem, and you describe it to us! Of course there has been some more, because there is no Payueta, for example, who also had the robbery at his head office in December. But I ask you what measures... Indeed, when something happens, an event of this kind, we have to ask the government to react, how it will react, what measures. Don't tell us what we're trying to do! No, no. We intend to identify the problems, and in this process there is a problem. We don't know if it's an organized gang, if it's a person... we recently saw a car that belonged to... Well, it's information we get through the media or sporadically, but you have to put it right. Do it normally! What measures, what actions will be implemented in these isolated areas. Look, these are public spaces, the ones that have been attacked, without security measures. They are buildings, logically, more vulnerable, without neighbors in those houses, without alarm, without much movement on working days... Well, let's see how the Basque Government, the Ertzaintza, acts in relation to that control. We want to know if there is contact with other state security forces, whether it affects Treviño areas as well, or the areas bordering Burgos... We want to know if there is information, if it is acting, if it is received or if there is any assessment, what degrees of vulnerability... We have seen that in another identification of problems in the Gipuzcoan barracks, in relation to some thefts, therefore, there is an assessment of degrees of vulnerability. Tell us about it! Do not qualify us and do not prejudge our intentions regarding what it is to give information to the population, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Time is up. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u119	Indeed, and you have said so, the data speak for themselves. The evolution of thefts and thefts against heritage in Montaña Alavesa from 2013 to 2016 has been negative. That is, in 2013 in the Alavesa Mountain Quadrilla there were a total of 51 allegations of theft and robbery with force; in 2016, 36. Almost all of them, in fact, in social centers, bars, warehouses, annexes to housing... Fortunately, not a single case of robbery with violence and intimidation. Without undermining all this, of course, in the worst case (I insist, in the worst case) we are in ratios comparable to other rural areas of Euskadi. And, of course, I am not the one who tends to confuse security issues with other issues. And the Ertzaintza, I insist, has done its work, an important work of definition, of formation, of instruction of the rural patrols, as I have already explained to you on some occasion. It is clear to me, through direct communication with the agents themselves who work, as well as with my neighbours and neighbours, that this is particularly welcomed both by some, as I say, by those who provide the service, and by those who perceive it. And I also have to tell you that the Urbiltzails, the chiefs of police, have a fluid, constant relationship with the municipal officials, with the heads of administrative boards, with leaders or referents of the primary sector and the rural world. Communication is constant and fluid, as I told you, supported in communication systems as simple as wasap groups can be. And I have just told you that one of the people has already been arrested, the alleged leader of that group that has been robbing, that has been acting not only in Alavesa Mountain, but also in other areas of Navarra and even in the Rioja Community. And for this purpose, work has been done jointly with the Civil Guard and the Navarra Police Force. That is why the Ertzaintza, she insisted, will continue to do what she has to do, all the necessary prevention work; when a crime occurs, investigate, prosecute and arrest, and always, I insist, whenever possible, to prevent crimes from being committed. But in any case, I insist, valuing and establishing (and valuing, I insist) perfectly the extent of the situations, the extent of the crimes, in this case the thefts committed both in Alavesa Mountain and those that may occur in other areas that may be more unprotected...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Beltran de Heredia. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja of the Popula team to participate in the new Spanish strategy on the social economy of the Euskon. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u121	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs San José. Well, we used to talk about robberies, a moment ago, that is, bad news, though well controlled by the autonomous police. We are now talking about good news, because, regardless of whether we are working on the social economy, its development, its promotion, from the public point of view (this Parliament has already asked the Government for a communication that we will be discussing at the moment, some parliamentary initiatives are under way, some legislative proposals that have to do with the promotion of the social economy, also the Cooperatives Act itself when it comes), this strengthening, because now also to all this, to this general framework of action, it is in addition, and by the positive response of the social economy companies, which is bearing fruit in the Basque Country, in Euskadi and in Spain as a whole, we see that the Government of Spain is finalizing a new Spanish strategy of social economy that supports the creation, maintenance, growth and innovation of social economy entities, as well as their internationalization. This is good news, and also done within the framework of the European Union, within the framework of the European Union Horizon 2020. Moreover, this development or announcement of this strategy is good, because I believe it marks synergies that the autonomous communities throughout Europe, with the central government and the autonomous governments, can carry out, and I think it is good news. And we in that sense, and within the framework of what we are talking about this promotion and development of the social economy, of the different expressions (cooperatives, labour societies, insertion companies, mutual societies, brotherhoods, agri-food companies...), we would like to know how the Basque Government will participate in the coordination, in the elaboration of this strategy of social economy, which I say again that to us seems great news, good news. And just as the Basque Government also has to do its duties and work on social economy strategies, so how are we going to coordinate all that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u122	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Barrio, for the interest and involvement you have consistently shown in the social economy. In the Department of Labour and Justice we have clear evidence of this. I believe that I will be showing you, as well as the direct officials of the department, the same interest and involvement on our part, and the determined action taken to boost the social economy in our Autonomous Community. Before going directly to the question raised in the question, let me briefly summarize my position, that of the Department of Labour and Justice and that of the entire Government with regard to the social economy. You've heard it on more than one occasion. Euskadi is an international leader in the social economy; social economy enterprises are a general alternative to capital enterprises and have proved to be more resilient to the crisis and have also shown a rapid recovery in terms of jobs when they have been affected by their effects. In addition, they are socially responsible companies and play a key role in local development. The social economy represents a step forward in the participation and democratization of the enterprise: the dual status of worker and entrepreneur makes it easier to see the enterprise as a wealth-generating social unit that satisfies the interests of the people involved in it. More than three thousand cooperatives, labour companies, special employment centres and integration companies in Euskadi generate more than 10% of jobs in our Community, and we are ready to continue to promote the creation of more such companies. Mr Barrio, you ask me how the Basque Government will participate in the elaboration of the new Spanish strategy of social economy. In this regard, the Director of Social Economy and the Director General of Self-Employment, Social Economy and Corporate Social Responsibility have contacted each other, and from that conversation we have extracted the following information that I transfer to your lords. The Ministry of Employment and Social Policy is drafting a strategic plan for social economy with a 2017-2020 horizon. The idea of the ministry is, once developed, to seek the advice of qualified agencies in this field, such as the International Research and Information Centre on the Public, Social and Cooperative Economy and the Spanish Business Confederation of the Social Economy. All autonomous communities will then be contacted for input and suggestions. And for my part, Mr Barrio, I would like to convey to you my highly positive assessment of the initiative and the total willingness to cooperate in the terms you have announced to us, or in any other way we agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u125	Thank you, President. Well, thank you very much, Mrs. San José. I thank you, the truth, the implication, because I believe that it is the key, it is the fundamental element, which is part of that moment, of that announcement by Minister Bañez, but, well, it has made it extensive. We do know that this strategy is going to have a way, it is going to have a development iter. He is now in the architectural phase of the document and strategy itself. Indeed, as you have said, it will be Cepes and it will be Ciriek who will then participate, complementing from the research and expert point of view that own strategy, and then will be the autonomous communities, in fact, within the framework of the social economy... And here Euskadi has a lot to say. A lot to say. It is always at the forefront, not only in practical terms, not only in business, industrial or innovative experiences, but also in theoretical terms, that there are reference elements within the University of the Basque Country, within Deusto. That is to say, it is going to be good in that sense, because, presumably, how that strategy is supposed to be adopted at the end of the year, and it is going to be good because it will also coincide with the debate that we have with the elaboration of the Government's own communication, and, of course, that is the fundamental element. Now, in that case, coordination, the need for coordination in the social economy. And what is the need for coordination? The intern, the first one. The internal between our companies and our common authority (the Basque Government and its Directorate of Social Economy), but also the outside institutions, which have much to say, and a certain role for local institutions in economic promotion and economic development. And ad extra of course, between the autonomous community and our cooperative experience, our experience of social economy in many areas (not only in the cooperative, but many more), with the central government, with the autonomous communities and above all with Europe, which has described the social economy as a cornerstone of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Chief, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u127	Thank you again, Mr. Barrio. I would like to record our willingness to cooperate and coordinate with all those actors who have something to do with the economy or with the impetus of the social economy, and we will inform the ministry of the work we are working on, such as the communication to this Parliament and our social economy plan. We have collaborated in the strategic reflection of Cepes, the state organization that groups social economy companies, and we will participate in the round table organized within the framework of the general assembly of the Spanish Confederation of Associated Labour Cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-06-02.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
