ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question of the members of the staff of the staff of Louis Javier Tellería Kerolas Eubertarians to the chief of Economics and Subventures, about opening a milk factory in the future." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u1	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. It's obvious that tired production is done in the country world. However, the transformation of weary products can be done anywhere. It's normal to be in industrial environments near the important centers. This decoys a large portion of the value of the country's superfluous production, which is situated in several Eucatacies. Some of them have a risk of depopulation. A people, if they are to be a people, requires the ability to produce nutrients, whether their primary materials or their transformations. But at the same time, industrialization must be attempted to develop near tired production. For this there are two reasons: On the one hand, the effects of transport being diminished, and on the other hand, the tendency of economy to decay in the parts of the country. For this reason, regardless of the objectives sought, we are satisfied with the announcement made by the Basque Government, and in particular by the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure, concerning the agreement between the Catalan TGT group and the Karrantza City Council to reopen an old dairy processing plant and resume its activity. And more so because the Karrantza Valley is an area with high milk production, which at the same time composes a classical rural area disconnected from the urban world and with difficulties to generate its own endogenous growth, resulting in many cases necessary to look for work outside the region, which will ultimately cause a human desertification of the area. In any case, and in order to move beyond the announcement made, what specific objectives does the Basque Government aim at with the impetus and implementation of this new project in Karrantza? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. I must tell you after the agreement made by the TGT and the City of Cartara, that Mr. Tellegio will be a new project in the Bisca country, connected with food, and in this project produce and commerce will be pushed into three different areas: on the one hand the cheeses made with the milk will be the brand of the Eusque Label; on the other hand, the mounted cream will be produced, and the milk, which the milk which the milk of the milk-beh, will be swept away. And of course we'll give importance to the sheep-ese, and the Idia-land cheeses will be made there, the sheep-birds of the denomination. In this case, as you say, we shall have the Hara of Carthara, in the case of which one of the most important valleys in the whole country will be said to consider milk and its production. It is also a valley in which we find a very rural area (the rurality index is the highest), and an unemployment rate, an unemployment rate of about 20%. Beraz, guretzat bear garrantzitsua zen bertan proyektu bat garantzea, age Administration bezala horretan aritu garantzen horri Bultzatzen eta bilatzen inbertsore bat proyektu horri aurrera erasango zona, lau helbururekin. Alde battik esango genuke..., we want to advance in the modernization and improvement of the quality of life of the rural environment, evidently assimilating it to that which we have in very populated nuclei. From this point of view, this project aims at two things: on the one hand the reopening and commissioning of a plant that had been closed and out of use for several years, thus avoiding the abandonment of interesting infrastructures, and beste alde batatik, Karrantzako Haranaren berpizkundea, bertan aktibitate ekonomikoa sortuz eta lana sortuz. Hori garrantzitsua da guretzat. The second goal will be to improve competitiveness in the first sector, and in this sense I have mentioned how many things will be done, and, in some measure, will be encouraged by the sector of milk, which is the main goal, and is always focused on sheep's milk and milk's milk. Two other things will be done, but above all they will give importance to the younger. Hirugarrenik, we would say, promoting investment for job creation and rural development, as he said. In this regard, I must say that the efforts we have been making since the Rural Development Programme also focus on this case in the Karrantza area. This project reinforces the commitment to maintain and develop the industrial and competitive fabric in Euskadi, and will also generate around fifty jobs. So what we want, as I was saying, is to push this sector forward and give an important push to the milk doctor in that valley, giving it the future, and making it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Council to the president, about the intervention of the civil and military authorities in Spain, in the homage of General Sanjurjo, the Coltala of Spain." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u5	Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning. I'm impressed. I'm still surprised that you and you haven't said anything about how they've buried the Colonist General Sanjurjo over Roman with the deal that Spain gave him. And I'm surprised that in other cases I've seen you so angry. I don't forget, for instance, what anger you had after a misinterpreted, contorted portion of the television show in Bordeaux. That's why I want to ask you if the President of Melilla and the Senator of the Party and the Army are involved in the offence against the victims of Frichism. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Yes, Mrs. Irriart. I'm not happy, either the president or the parliamentary. General Sanjurjo was in command of a rebellion against the government of the Republic in 1932 and in the coup of State 36. Two hits, okay? His remains have been on the Monument of the Falls of Juruñ. By applying the British Law to Historic Memory, the remains of Sanjurjo emerged from the grave last November. In March, General Sanjurjo was buried in the Pabilia of the Hero of Melilla, with high-level politicians and military troops present. There were, among others, the President of Juan José Imbroda Melilla, a commander of Ferdinand Gutiérez de Otaz, and a military commission composed of the colonels of the city. It may be interpreted by this and the information given, that this act occurred in the context of a homage made on the general Colt. This performance is contrary to the spirit of the Law of Histric Memory. The memory, or all homage of the Colpists of military rebellion, are the supposed praise and apology of the Frichist dictatorship, a proof of a sensibilities with the francism victims, and even more, that many of them have not yet received the confession they deserve. The Basque Government is committed to the historical memory, and considers that the act of Melilla, held in a context of tribute to General Sanjurjo, is a demonstration of a lack of sensitivity towards the victims of Francoism, many of whom are still awaiting recognition today. This act also contravenes the spirit of the Historical Memory Act. The victims of Francoism must know and know that Basque institutions are at their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u9	Well, I'm glad Mr. President would say that, but I think it's late for the answer, and it's too late for the parliamentary question to come after the law of Navarre, and this also has been reported by the Parliament of the Navarre, there's always to be said about the rhabé, the Potion of the Party and the vow against UPN. Eta hemen ez zen horrelakorik izan, besteak beast, Partido Popularrak ezezko botoa eman zuelako, éta niri ghedera ez zait txikia iruditzen. It does not seem to me to be a minor issue, because the coup general participated in a military uprising, in one of the most bloody wars in Europe, which left thousands dead (thousands of dead also Basques and Basques), which still many of them are buried in covets without having taken them out of there. In a few hours you have the opportunity to meet the supreme head of the Spanish Armed Forces, general of the armies seems to me to be, the king of Spain. I would like to ask you about what the King of Spain thinks that his generals, his senior commanders, will participate in meetings like this. I'd think it'd be interesting. Ask him in Spanish, not in Basque with Catalan accent, just in case, and next week he tells us what he told him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u11	Bai, Iriarte the walk, bai. You said Navarre Legal, right? The lawman, he's fine. No, you asked the president. I said yes, I said I didn't say anything, not even the Basque Act, didn't say anything until now. And we're going to the key and leave the state chief out of it. I'll talk to the state boss about what I have to talk about when I have to talk. And let's go to the key. And the worst of the events in Melilla is that the office is the most important thing in the world. They harmed the dignity of those who suffered a great injustice, and the victims of franchise suffered an unjust injury, and has not yet been fully confessed to them; they are silent or denied. Nay, it is praised in such cases as this. The victims of Frankism must know that the Euskal institutions are with them, and that is important, and not the question of the President against the Dicta, the question of manoeuvres to manipulate, or decorate history. Such events as this give us a convenient opportunity to prevent every kind of event possible to be the praise of terrorism, violence, or human rights. We live in partnership. We must reject the praise of violence, apology, or praise, for the victims, for the living, for the living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the lawmen of the Podemos to the head of the Security Department, about the Edge Environment Unit." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u13	Good morning, everyone. Madam Councilwoman, in February 2015 this Parliament urged the Basque Government to strengthen the Environment Unit, the group of agents working on environmental issues in Ertzaintza, in two ways: on the one hand, to increase the human, material and technical resources available to it, and on the other hand to improve cooperation and cooperation with both the Prosecutor's Office and local and outside administrations. I would like to know what actions have been taken in the department during these two years to comply with this Parliament's requirement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u15	Mr. President, President, Congressman, good morning, everyone. Borders have a special set of environments and cities to deal with. He's been working on it for years, and he's developed and established a work of great efficiency and acceptance in his career. In fact, the Ertzaintza already has a section of Urbanism and Environment within the Criminal Investigation Division, which over the last few years has been consolidated. The persecution, as you said, and the denunciation of criminal offences related to the environment and urbanism are tasks that Ertzaintza shares with the rest of the administrations that have competence in this matter, that it shares and collaborates with them. Therefore, taking care of this dialogue with the institutions is one of the tasks performed by this section. But there is also an important work of expert advice and collaboration with the units of the Ertzaintza police stations themselves, so that the whole organization acts with homogeneous criteria. Thus, in addition to the specific training that this section has, it is important to highlight the work they do in terms of training through the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies. They have contributed with very positive results to the training of civil protection officers carrying out rural patrols, to the training of new promotions, specific training also on environmental issues for promotion courses to officers and first agents... I have to tell you that over 2016 a total of twelve training editions on environmental issues were developed, involving more than half a thousand Ertzainas, and that another twenty-one editions are planned within the planning for 2017. It is obvious, logically, that nuclear work is carried out by the Environment and Urbanism Section, and nuclear work is the investigation of the crimes that are committed, logically relying on the laboratory of the scientific police, always, as I say, in close collaboration with the territorial prosecution offices. And this is the current reality, the daily work carried out by this central section of crimes against the environment and urban planning in the Ertzaintza; as I say, a group that has been consolidated over these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u16	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u17	I appreciate the explanations, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, but the information I have is not so encouraging, let us say. With regard to the human media, the group has had seven people since its creation in 2009. There has been no increase in a single agent, despite the fact that on the one hand the Basque security landscape has changed, due to the cessation of violence in Euskadi, and despite the fact that the group that the Minones had on the environment was dismantled as well. Still, the group has not been increased in any other person since its inception. As far as the technical and material means are concerned, no progress has been made either. The group has a vehicle to move, a meter for toxic gases that was given to them by the Madrid Environmental Prosecutor's Office, and a briefcase to investigate forest fires. To this day they have nothing else. It is true, and you are right, that they are contributing enormously to the training of other agents, but as far as their own training is concerned, it can be said that it is almost non-existent. In recent years, the only training they received was a fire investigation course. Nothing more. This lack of training meant that in 2014 the Office of the Prosecutor itself in its memory said that, given the lack of training and material means of the Ertzaintza in the investigation of some illicits, it was obtained as a solution that it was still URA who took the corresponding samples in cases of dumping. And this brings me to the other important issue, and it is what is the collaboration and coordination with local administrations. To this day, the Ertzaintza is only collaborating with URA to take these samples of discharges, and with the Society of Sciences Aranzadi. Each time the agents take a sample of water, they are taking it to the National Institute of Toxicology in Madrid: two ertzainas, one car, eight hundred kilometers, and a day of lost work. I wonder: is there no official laboratory in all Basque administrations (be it the Department of Health, Water Consortiums...) that is able to do this job here in a more rational way? Is it so difficult for administrations to cooperate and help each other, even through agreements? Where is the constitutional obligation to cooperate with justice? What has the department, or the management of the Ertzaintza itself, done to optimize the specialized human resources available to the different Basque administrations, be they forestry agents, environmental inspectors or fire investigation technicians in the fire department? We believe that today the situation of this group dedicated to environmental crimes is a faithful reflection of the situation in which Ertzaintza finds herself, but we would like to hear some explanation that prevents us from thinking that in reality the direction of the department is deliberately seeking not to investigate crimes against the environment. Because we would agree that that is a matter that would be very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u18	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u19	It is composed of experts from various scientific processing disciplines that correspond to each other, the Environmental Regional and Cities of the Border, and it constantly continues to perform these scientific knowledges. But also, as members of the Ertzaintza they have a thorough knowledge of all legal aspects so that also in these areas compliance with the law is carried out. They have a detailed knowledge of what the competences are, what the division of competences in environmental matters is. Therefore, the relationship with those responsible for the various institutions is not only continuous, but is permanent and continuous. This collaborative relationship also extends to the judicial bodies that are dedicated to the prosecution of such crimes. Not in vain – and they have expressed this publicly on numerous occasions – the recognition and professional esteem they have for the group, the Environment and Urbanism Section of the Ertzaintza. They work closely with provincial prosecutors, you know. They work closely together. But not only with them, but also with the co-ordinator of Environment and Urbanism, for example in the annual fire prevention campaign. It is, therefore, a section that is consolidated, structured, formed and constantly updated, and that cooperates permanently with all the institutions that are competent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u20	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary staff of Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the prevention of the dangers of the work and the campaign of Osalan, driven by autonomous organisms." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors and counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Mrs San José, a few days ago we were aware of the campaign on occupational safety planned to be developed by the Department of Labour and Justice through the Osalan Autonomous Agency. You coincided – I think quite rightly – with the launch of the campaign with the celebration of the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, which has been commemorated every 28 April since 2003. He said that the dates chosen seemed to me to be very correct, since the end of the celebration established by ILO was to promote the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases in all countries of the world. I agree with you on the importance of prevention in minimizing occupational disaster, and I also share that, in order to prevent it, information is key, it is absolutely fundamental. I believe that it is essential for workers to be aware that the accident is not an irremediable one; therefore, awareness-raising campaigns will always be welcome that contribute to the incorporation of safe and healthy behaviour into the workplace. On the other hand, work and health are perfectly compatible concepts, in addition to a demand and responsibility, a duty of employers towards workers. It is important to get their identification, and turn the binomial into a characteristic feature of Basque society. This requires the awareness of workers, the involvement of their representatives and, of course, the responsibility and commitment of women entrepreneurs in this task, since ultimately they are the ones who have to ensure compliance with all the regulations in force in their workplaces, assess their risks and carry out preventive planning in order to prevent occupational accidents. I would like to reiterate to you, Madam Councillor, my coincidence and that of the whole Socialist Group in this House with the initiative of your department, in order to pursue it, and we hope that the results will be the marked ones. We will all be contributing to improving the occupational safety and health of our working population. But given the importance of this campaign, the opportunity of it, the collective it is aimed at and the social impact it is having, I would like to see a more detailed explanation today of the purpose, scope, content and means that are being used in its development. That is why I am asking you the following question: What is the content of the campaign promoted by Osalan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Sánchez, I am glad that we agree on a matter as important as the need to act with all the means at our disposal to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. In the Basque Government we have made it our priority to reduce unemployment rates below 10%. Well, it is up to the Department of Labour and Justice to ensure that both existing and existing jobs are of quality. I would like to make it clear to you that, in order to ensure that work is of quality, a fundamental feature of it is that it is safe. Quality work-safe work is an inseparable binomial. To achieve this is a requirement to which we have to respond to all those who have some responsibility in this regard. In the Department of Labour and Justice we are committed to getting our workers, when they return home after a working day, to do so under the same conditions as they left. We want to banish the idea that accidents at work or occupational disease are inevitable or inherent in work. To achieve this goal, we in the Department of Labour and Justice have human, material and normative resources. One of our fundamental instruments is the autonomous body Osalan, the Basque Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which has a recognized reputation among the agents who work in both the State and Europe in the field of occupational safety and health. Your professionals are required from very different places to communicate your experience and good practices. It is well known, for example, that the agency is making an effort to ensure that prevention delegates acquire adequate training. It is important that professionals and professionals in Osalan collect and order data and statistics, which are enabling us to analyse the evolution of working conditions and, consequently, to anticipate the risks that may arise, to prevent them. The inspection function is also essential to correct inappropriate practices and behaviour in workplaces in relation to safety and health. To carry out all these and other functions we have our means, but we also require the cooperation of the social partners and the involvement – as you said very well, Mrs Sánchez – of the entrepreneurs. All this experience and work are yielding results. Today, social awareness of the need to preserve the health of our workers is much greater than a few years ago. But in this matter we can never be satisfied, because something else can always be done. For our part, we want to reach the last workplace, to ensure that all Basque workers have information and are aware of the importance of occupational safety and health. We aspire to imbue the whole of Basque society with the need to acquire safe and healthy behaviors, in order to reach, as I said, the last worker. Coinciding with these dates we have launched the campaign "Make occupational safety a part of your life. Egizu lan-segurtas une zure bizitzaren parten". I'll show you the poster in Basque and Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the content, scope and philosophy of the campaign undertaken, always bearing in mind that quality work is safe work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the importance of political stability." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to you all. I would like to express today, of course, the satisfaction I share with you for the possibility of understanding that we have closed this week, so it is not going to be a very uncomfortable question for the government that you preside over, but to highlight the importance of the budget agreement in the closed agreement with your parliamentary group and that of my party in Madrid, which I believe is particularly beneficial to the Basque Country, in so far as it guarantees investment commitments in infrastructure that are essential for the prospects for future development in Euskadi, and also improves the competitiveness of our companies and therefore gives us an option to follow a recovery work in Euskadi that reaches people. To reach people in terms of employment, because that was our goal, which we have shared. And also a very important agreement that I believe comes to close a dispute that was already a decade long and that also offers tranquility in order to be able to work in the future; that Mr Erkoreka said tax peace for fifteen years, but really they are agreements that are quiet and that are important. In the investiture speech I told him, and I told him that if you chose that path and understood that priority that you had announced, for economic growth and job creation, it would not be alone; and that the differences, difficulties and conflicts that the Basque Government maintained with the Government of Spain, the difference and the difficulty of dialogue between our two political formations, could be replaced by a different relationship. We have done so, we have been working over the months, and I believe that the fruit is very positive for the whole of Basque society. I know that you do not have a character that pulls you towards radicalism, and I hope that that too is a guarantee that this behavior and this desire for dialogue, which offers these possibilities and which gives rise to these successes, can be extended. And it seems to me very necessary to expand, and that, now that there is a moment of economic recovery and that things can go well, let us give that necessary guarantee of political stability for us to take advantage of these years. Not in the agreement this year of budgets here in the Basque Country or in Madrid, but in order to have a clear horizon of work, so that the government can do, and so that the recovery actually reaches all Basque citizens in terms of employment opportunities, in terms of improving the conditions of their jobs, also in terms of guaranteeing the welfare state and the protection offered by the administration. That's what I want. I think about what is happening in the Basque Country, what is happening in Spain and what is happening in Europe as a whole. It is no longer that the political axis has changed (nationalist-non-nationalist, right-wing or left-wing); I believe that we are already on a political axis of moderation or radicalism, of reason or populism. Look at what is being discussed and what is also being said in France this weekend! And in that axis and in that discussion, and in that dilemma that has brought the crisis, we will always be on the side of moderation and we will be looking for centrality. Finally, I want to ask you to be responsible and prudent when selling the agreement. It is very legitimate for your party to breastfeed, but let us be careful, because this is also taken advantage of by those who are against the economic concert, who have prejudices towards the freedoms of the Basques, to harm it. And, therefore, let us be cautious. Let us explain that this indeed guarantees the solidarity of the Basques with the rest of the country. And I have heard some of your spokesmen boast too much, and I ask you to be prudent, to be responsible and also to help defend the economic concert, the virtues it has, not only in Euskadi, but also in the rest of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, let me tell you that I do not think this is about the character of everyone. I think this is more about the willingness to reach agreements. But in any case, I will tell you that my commitment to political and institutional stability is permanent, not from now on. It's permanent, and it's still going to be. I value stability at the service of economic growth and job creation, and this has been demonstrated since the first day of the previous parliamentary term. You said, "Take advantage of these years from now..." No, no, We, as the Basque Government already in the previous legislature, also advocated stability based on the agreements. Aware of our minority position, we understood that political and institutional stability was also essential in the past legislature. We have sought stability and agreement by conviction. We agreed, for example, in September 2013, on a framework programme for employment and economic recovery with the Socialist Party. We approve the budgets, and also the tax reform, with a broad institutional consensus, also with his party. We also agree with the People's Party, therefore, in the last legislature, as we agree with institutions governed by other political formations, as is the case with Bildu in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. And these agreements have had their translation into the institutional set of Euskadi. And this is also the spirit and letter of the coalition of government between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party in this legislature. On this path, we recognise the agreements that have enabled us to adopt the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community this year, as well as the new framework programme for employment and economic recovery. We believe in a model of shared strategy, institutional collaboration and public-private collaboration. The economic fabric is also demanding stability and collaboration. And this collaboration, which results in stability, has made it possible to approve the budgets. It has also allowed, in reference to what you explained, to lay the foundations for the liquidation of the quota and the updating of the concert, to invest in infrastructures, to improve the competitiveness of the Basque industry... They are positive steps in the right direction. Today, Euskadi grows, and jobs are created. Four years ago, there were 40,000 people on Lanbide's tail and today they're working. It is worth keeping the doors of dialogue and agreement open, because we still have a lot of jobs to create in Euskadi. We therefore believe in agreement and collaboration from conviction. Not from necessity, but from conviction. It is clear that we agree that political stability is a necessary condition for growth and job creation, and we understand political and institutional stability, I insist, as a result of dialogue and negotiation between different people, to seek common meeting points. And this is what gives stability strength. This base of departure generates confidence in the world of the company for investment, for growth, for employment... I have cited, for example, the beginning of the previous legislature, and the most relevant novelty is that four years later a door has been opened to dialogue and negotiation between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government. An open door from which there is also a scenario of stability. And my desire – without hindrance, without false pride – is for that door to be opened with conviction, because there are many challenges that we have to face in order to keep moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation, made by the members of the Ugarte Bridgerata of the EH Collectors to the President, concerning the agreements with PP." Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u29	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. As my daughters say, "Ahuah, chaval! Buzza, chaval! "I don't know. The words we've just heard are terrible. They are terrible, and for this country, I think, they are a tragedy. When you talk about the peace prosecutor for 15 years of peace, I think we're talking about the dependence of 15 years, which, like a Basque, seems to me a tragedy. The pride of the orchestra, as "sin complejos" in this way, tells us that it will be a zero when, by transfers, it says "mejor no mezclare coras con merinas," or that it must be a good picture before Europe, and that, in case of 2018, we will not negotiate in a way "no se nos vaya a pavo." We have read and heard such things in the last few days, and I really have a terrible passion. I have a terrible feeling as it seems to me that this country is worth five thousand dollars. Is that the price of this town? Is that what the Basque People's worth for the Jelt Party? Does that cost 5,000 miserable euros? "Un puñado de dóllares," as Trumpe would say? Is that what this town's worth to you? It's not news, not surprise, really. In advance of the campaign and during the campaign season, you used to fill your mouths and say that the days of this Agenda Vasca's negotiation were over. We're used to saying things that don't happen since the campaign time, and you filled your mouths with it. The election campaign ended, in the past, I mean the next day, we were in a foaming phase with ja PSE, and finally that was the choice. EH Collect, at his own moment, had a fair stake on the vast popular alliances, a fair wager of the union of the majority, of the union of the majority, and of EAJ, in order to advance and not to turn back. But your choice, once again, was Spain, when, at first, it was the time of PSE and the budget, PP arrived. And it is true, quid pro quo has been given: they have accepted the budgets which they have not satisfied the necessities of the euscals, the science of which does not lead the people to the future, and they have accepted the budgets which lead this people to the past, and that required a counterpartition. Eta kontrapartida hori ez da soilik aurrekontu batzuk onartzea. This counterpart means supporting the broken Kingdom of Spain. The Kingdom of Spain, which is a kingdom that is about to break down all over the corners, that makes water everywhere, éta hori aparelatu duzue zuek ezarritaka tottel oriekin, 5,000 milioi euro miserableren truffle. Of course, as you say in these days, every one may make agreement with the people he pleases, and you are free, but when one makes the agreements with one another, he must have the ability to explain the agreements, and he who has tried to cheat is a relatto for the people, by saying that this agreement is good for the eucalycal; and the examples which you have given and the agreement I have read have for the people of Euscala, have nothing good for the people of the country. I told you that I've felt a wild feeling, and the first feeling is the nightmare. What's missing from the ones, the ones we've got too much of it, and we feel like the rest of us's neighbourhood, and like the Basques, I feel the town of the neighbourhood, the town of the town, the Gürtel, the Púnic, the Nacho Gonzalz, the Esperanza Aguires, the Barcenas. To look at one side in that case, in those things that are so full of ethics... "More ethical, less epic" is what we call... Well, fewer epics and more ethics, it's no longer ethical to protect a native government. We're talking about a violation, because what we're saying here seems to be supposed to be saying, well, you've already got $850 in 2016, 936, and the conator's going up, so the conator isn't going to be a Zeroo, in this case the catch goes up. So we can't say it's a sum of rotten apples. The tree is rotten. And instead of letting that rotten tree fall, you still grow and grow that rotting tree. That's the kind of ads, a dedo, all kinds of corruptions, black tarjets, commissions... As Nacho Gonzalez has done to his own pocket, but while an anti-compession fiction protects it, no vaya a ser que de Nachos prengue a todos. That's the government in Spain. And that's the corsponsible that's signing those budgets, and that's also a thing to tell this town, I think it's very important. You've given a white check to the European side, and you've got to explain that to this town. It's obvious you have difficulties to explain, and that's how you get into strange arguments, because it's hard for people to understand with Ciudadnos and UPN... At least, in this upper area of Ebro, it's very difficult to understand this presupuestary agreement. I don't know what's in the back of a quid pro quo, a síndrome de Etocloma, an affair of lenses, I don't know what's behind. You're also a corressponsible because we all know that the budget doesn't say the Lazy Legs, all the unions in this town, all of them say that they're the reconnaissances of Japan. You're going to be the Correspondents of LOMCE. You can't tell us that the privatization of the banks is a consequence of Spain, or a thousand other things, as you say, when you don't want to take care of Madrid, and that's what you've got to do with it. I feel sad with the neighbor'slots, it's sad because what you've done has been your shot in el pie a Cataluluña, you've shot that process in your leg, and you've been "el cortafuegos" in order to stop any subversive process that can be opened here and stop the Katalunia trial. And that means the same responsibility to you. And it's very hard to see it as a Basque, it's very hard to see the Catalans, those who have always behaved so well with us, all those sectors where you've been sabotaged for the freedom of this town. And in their presence it is plain that we shall have to go on with only one part of the enquiry which you say, and that we shall do it, a pesar de cualquier pacto presupuestarius. In fact, anger, even anger, with epika, terminology, and the sense of the agreement you use, because you say it's a good deal, and I've read 11 pages, even anexus, I've read them, and what do you want me to say? 3.380 million euros AHTU. Is that what this town needs? Have you asked the Basque People what they need? Is that what we need? Well, I don't know, we haven't asked, we haven't asked. And I think it would be convenient to ask you in this matter, whether the interests of the Basques be of interest or whether they are party interests. The coupe. This is a funny element! Kupo is a concept to be paid legally, so it's not about getting paid legally a few years later. It is not a merit, it is a legal account, which proceeds from the delay of many years, and therefore I do not believe it to be a triumph; And I'd like to leave that there too. The revave of the electric bill, the passus nive, as was mentioned yesterday, is a useful matter. But can an agreement be made in exchange beyond a presupuestary agreement? Is it all worth while to mortgage this town for a future, at least a quarter of a year when this people are kept dependent on Spain? Will we always be doing the same thing, in the day of the Party and during the campaign time, and looking at Spain all the time, fulfilling the interests of Spain? Will we always be the same? $5,000 million, I repeat, is the freedom of this country worth $5,000? Is this town selling for 5,000 million? Eh? And I'd like to say something else, too. You've got to take out the prisoner's subject, in a way, for a few sectors to calm down. Thank God Alfonso Alonso gave us a little light and told us he wasn't there! It's not there, as it isn't self-generacual, because the agreement obtained on the edge doesn't solve the 30 transfers, which are still unresolved, is there, in this case, porque no habáclar cluras con merinas, is it not? So you'll have to explain to this town the virtuality of this agreement, and why it's so good to allow the Spanish state to be stable, otherwise than for a year, because we'll see what time will give, but there are all signs that this agreement isn't just a preventive agreement. It's dark times for us, and I hope they change.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. What's the matter with you? Are you kidding me? As a matter of fact, I don't know whether Mr. Egibar or Eubertarian would have to answer from the law club, after all, the whole speech of Mrs. Ugarte has been that way, looking at you, I don't know if you're looking at me. And the question has been asked on April 25th, before we agree with the Spanish Government. I thought you were asking me about what we agreed on with the local budget. And the question is: What is the purpose of the President of the United States, when it relates to the agreements with PP, to confirm the information that they are about to publish, that corruption is natural, general, and sismistic in this respect? Mrs. Ugarte, would you be willing to agree with the Jestric Party? Yes or no? Don't you accuse us of corrupting us all over again? Who would you agree to? Look, I am convinced that our intention is in answer to the argument: our intention is to comply with the signed agreements. It's true that we've agreed with the Pre-Popular Party, but it's true that we've agreed with all parties, including EH Collect. It wasn't possible for us to agree with the budget, but, as you know, the doors are open to get to new agreements in the future, Mrs. Ugarte. As soon as we meet the economic situation, it's a bet on stability and agreement. In a very short time, we've accepted presidences, and our responsibility is to fill all agreed matches with questions such as spinhod, even those signed by the Poptular Party, of course. We'll handle 11 billion Euros that we've never been able to handle. Thanks to these priorities, three out of four, there will be a guarantee of the services of health, education, and social protection. Thanks to these budgets, we'll have a chance to invest $1,200 million dollars. We have agreed with the parties who have attempted to accept these accounts, and they sign the instability of the organization from Euskaca, as well as those of the Basque institutions with the Spanish institutions. We defend the example of interview and agreement and we'll continue. You and your party have also criticized the alliance you signed with the Spanish Government. But our responsibility is to keep the connection between the organizations open, to protect conversation and negotiation, to defend the interests of the Basques. The public management of the organizations is a responsibility, and you know that attitude, because you kept the same attitude during 2011-05 years as you were the representative of the Giupic Forductal Forum. Let me give you a few examples. May 2013: Thanks to the new defense lines agreed on by the Spanish government, the Euskon and the tri-ducts accepted an investment fund. This agreement made an investment of 180 million euros. 180 million is what the Esquimic Autonomy is worth? I will remind you of this arrangement, that the Spanish Government and the Indulous Forum of Gipulia had been part of it, and the Spanish Government was composed of Popular Party, and that the Gipuian Foru Aldundia EH collected by you. September 2013: The Spanish Governments, the Basques, and the three forgeries, agreed to deficits and dues for four years. During all these years, the measures agreed with the Spanish Government were applied by the Indulous Forum of Gipu, in the Spanish Government to Popular Party, and to collect EH in the Forum Aldunia of Gipu. January 2014: The Commission of the Economical treaty agreed to the agreement of the seven new tributes, and signed it. In this commission, the representative of the Spanish Government was called Cristóbal Montoro, and the representative of the Gipuzian Modal, Martin Garitano. By this arrangement, the almonds began to take over seven new taxes. The Gipuese Fordun accepted this agreement, signed it, and handled it. The spokesman, Laraz Ugart, fully rated that agreement signed with the government of PP. February 2014: The delegation of the Gipulias made a meeting with the Spanish Government in order to face the damages that had been left in the nine villages on the coast of Gipulia by the storm. The meeting was arranged in the Aldudia of Gipuia and the spokesman of the aldudia, Laratz Ugart, that is to say, for those nine people the financial aids of 2 million euros demanded from the Spanish Government of PP. February 2015: The New Year's New Year's Eve, the New Year's Condemnations of Gipuz, the Donostian City Hall, and the Spanish Government signed an agreement to complete the management mission for the New York City of St. Donostia 2016 Kulturage. I'll remember who the unionrs were: Juan Charles Izguire, Martin Gartano and Joseph Ignacio the Minister Wert. You'll remember well because you welcomed that signature in the name of the Gipuzian Moment. These are examples, Mrs. Ugarte. You were the representative of an organization, and, as is normal, you opened your dialogue with all the other organizations and showed an effort to achieve an agreement, always defending the interests of the organization you represented. During all these years you had relations with the Spanish Government which supported the Popular Party. We're planning meetings, we're talking, we're signing agreements. I never heard of you or the powermaster, or the Alddudia of Gipuz, or the Jat of Gipu. On the other hand, not even now, no one criticized the position of the Collectors, although the Spanish Government supported it. It's only been two years, and the question is: what has changed this time? Only two years ago you did what you did-that is to keep the conversation open and try to close the agreements-the other representatives do it now. That's why Euskade's trying to close up a contract that could be useful to Euskade. That's what we're doing and what we want. That's our responsibility and responsibility. The People's Party can already see that not only in the Spanish state the agreement reached raises criticism. Also here in Euskadi the agreement raises criticism. Our aim is to defend Euskadi's interests from the Basque Government, and we do so by approving at a record time the Euskadi's budgets, approved after opening the dialogue with all the political parties (also with yours, Mrs Ugarte); approved without closing the door to any party (also yours), with a view to reaching agreements in the future. Approved, of course, with the intention and commitment to comply with what has been agreed upon in its entirety. Our aim is to defend the interests of Euskadi. The best for Euskadi, also when we negotiate with the Spanish Government. It's our responsibility. For ten long years, since 2007, all Governments have tried to reach agreement on the quota. It wasn't possible. Now it's possible. And you want us not to sign an agreement that is positive for Euskadi! No one would understand it, let alone when the proposal is part of you. I remind you of something you seem to want to forget. Just over three years ago (January 2014), we agreed with the State to incorporate seven new taxes into the economic concert system. Bildu was the party that ruled the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. You were a deputy and a spokesperson for that deputy. Martín Garitano was a deputy general, and signed that agreement with Cristóbal Montoro, Minister of Finance representing the Spanish Government and the People's Party. Can you explain to me why at that time you could meet, dialogue and agree with the Spanish Government of the People's Party, and now it cannot be done? Our goal is today the same as three years ago, and it is transparent, Mrs Ugarte: to solve the outstanding liquidations of the quota from the five-year years 2007-2011 and 2012-2016, to take 2017 as the base year for what may be the new five-year law, to approve that five-year law 2017-2021, and to update the economic concert. These were the objectives of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation when you were a deputy and spokesman. They were and remain the objectives of the Basque Government, the negotiations then and now with the Spanish Government of the People's Party. The same then, and the same now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u33	Well, hello again. I can see that you've pursued me a lot; personal, I was in the arrears of four years, and we've done you a great deal of hemeroteka, incinecy, por cycineto, because there are more things that we agreed on with the Popular Party, and so on, we agreed to the performance, the cinema, and other things. To Tabal, the cultured year... we've been in many things with the Spanish State. It's true, as you have mentioned, that number of seven tribes was on the spot and so on. The comparisons are hateful, and you don't understand, or like to make a racket too much, and I don't like to make a racket. [[Berber]] No, it's not a big deal. It's not a matter of agreement, because it's a matter of exchange, what this town pays for in order to make these deals. That's what I've been accusing you for ten minutes. And if you didn't understand that, because you didn't hear me, it was because that's what I told you. In fact, it's not that I have a theory against making deals. The agreements may be made with any one, and I have already told you that it is free to make alliances with any one, and that every man makes alliances with any one who pleases. But these agreements, and above all the contractor stations, are the ones that are to be explained, and you have been very bad to explain them. To remove some nives from the border to the agreements of Schentengen, to recover the Lemoi lands, and so forth to direct the Spanish Government, to give stability to a Spanish Southern Government, to give stability for years! Because it's not about 2017. It is not a question of 2017, why Orcian himself said, "Let us not boast, but let us make a good image of Europe" and left it open. And we all know this will have a long record. And the complications that concern me are those which annoy me, and those which make me angry with that long rebellion, I and many sectors of this country. Because we have to accept the records, we have to accept the denial of this town, we have to accept the anti-democratic sabo that will be done to Catalonia, we have to accept the Nacho Gonzalz, the Esperanzaguirres, the facka... We must accept them all. And that's the price to pay. "And this [is] what I say to you from the beginning, that you do not lie to this people. It's not just a budget agreement. I won't use all my time. I repeat, fewer epics and more ethics. And ethics, you know what it is in this case. It's ethical to answer this town and the interests of this country and not the corruptions of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u34	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u35	... and go with Sanjurjo's friends. That's it. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ugarte, I'm glad you were a foru-dun, by the agreement you made. I'm glad. For what? For 180 million? What did you get the agreements for? For something. Yes, we'll have to explain and I'll give it to you. Any one who knows the situation we live in knows that the agreements we've made these past few months have been very important to Basques. It is important to form a new government, and in four months to accept the foundation of the government: strategy, program, legal calendar, and a scope program for jobs and economic recovery, including one. It's important that in four months you run and report in this parliament, to negotiate with all parties, to negotiate with what you wanted, not with those who have denied us from without, to accept and start, because it's a deal you've made about the cup. And thanks to that, we've put a close to the appreciative period that has been maintained for 2007 years. Yes, Mrs. Ugarte. I would like you to tell me what objectives you disagree with, and why. To reduce the electricity tariff for Basque companies so that they are more competitive, so that they can create more jobs? To guarantee the investments for the arrival of the high speed to Euskadi, the underground of the entrance to the capitals, investment in the variant south railway, beginning of the construction of the railway platform Pasaia-Lezo, realization of the hydraulic works of sanitation of the Upper Nervion, management of the lands occupied by the nuclear power station of Lemoiz? Guaranteeing Ertzaintza replacement rates to facilitate generational renewal? Does it make it easier to replenish basic services so that job vacancies, especially in health and education, can be expanded? These are our goals, Mrs. Ugarte, which we have negotiated, accepted, and introduced with complete transparency. They're positive targets for the Basques. To improve public services, to manage more economic resources, to be more competitive euscal economy, and to promote more employment, to strengthen and increase self-regation. It's our responsibility to get these goals. They're useful, so we'll continue to negotiate with the Spanish government. The first day my friend agreed that conversation and agreement are indispensable to anyone, with all sorts of organizations and institutions. Our intention is to follow the way of bargains, and perform the signed ones. I am the first to demand that any person or political party should answer to justice in any case of corruption, and that will be their penance. Now, also that which belongs to Bildu for his management in the Foral Diputation of Gipuzkoa, eh! And I also demand consistency from you, Mrs. Ugarte. In the previous parliamentary term and in this Parliament you have had no inconvenience in joining your votes to the People's Party in this Parliament. This year you... EH Bildu approved 75% of the amendments tabled by the People's Party to the budget of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Basque Government in committee. EH Bildu has voted three out of four times with the People's Party. They blame me for talking and negotiating with the People's Party, and now he says it's not talking and negotiating, no, but in exchange for what. No, no! The recrimination was to talk and negotiate with the allegedly corrupt People's Party. But at the same time they call for the negotiation of a new prison policy with the Spanish Government of the People's Party. They are very strict with the ethical criteria they demand of others, but for years and years you have maintained a position I will say that nothing ethical (I leave it there, nothing ethical) in relation to terrorism. They are able to accuse the Basque Nationalist Party, or the Basque Socialist Party, even in the morning, of corruption and raise agreements in the afternoon, Mrs Ugarte. Do you know what this attitude is called, and I will also remain in a more euphemistic term than the one that comes to my mouth right now? Absence of absolute coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the state of the tax-form to be put on in the Basque Autonomia Er member" by the members of Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Team. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In fact, he's been sitting on the table several times now and then. It's been because we brought it, but not just when we published it, but it's true that the representatives of the New Year have turned the tax-burn on it. Mr. Below him announced that a deep form of tribute is necessary in February, saying that there is an opportunity to increase the public prosecutor's pressure. And he especially said that there is more chance of society than of gathering. The President himself stated that it was necessary to support the basic tax-reform public services and to encourage economic growth. And he explained that this reform was to lead by PNV and the PSE. In the course of February, the Aldunic deputies came out and made it clear that they did not see any need, and that they must wait until they had examined the results of their reforms in 2013. Again, the three aldundias have submitted the results of this examination, and have agreed in the analysis: the results of the reform have been useful, and the ends established have been fulfilled, although the facts have never been made clear that they have never fulfilled what they intended. Regrets have rejected the deep form of tax-burning so expressed that they have said that they will make some adjustments to the system. After the summer they will present the constant improvements to the system, according to the powerful Ogun of Gipuzia. And that's why we're asking you... is this what Mr. Subaustude and the President required to stand up to the basic public services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pinedo, a representative of different institutions, because we have admitted that three steps must be taken to form the form of taxation: one, examine in the depths the results of the tax-form received in the year 2013; propose a reform based on this examination, combine the two targets which we all have agreed to, namely, to maintain public services and to promote economic growth; and three, to present and receive this proposal in the principal assemblies of three historical countries, with a general consent necessary. The need for reform, the calendar itself commands, and I planned the need in that sense. We are now at the first stage, so we must finish the examination, make our proposals, and accept them, that is to say, a reform or modification, or a change in the 1st of January 2018. All of this is agreed, three forums and Euskés. And now, therefore, in relation to the concept of "acquicent" that I could use in an expression – not in my initial intervention, but in answer to some questions – I will explain to you backwards, so that you understand, why it is pressing. The reform must come into force on 1 January 2018; it must first be approved at the General Boards of the three historic territories; it must first reach a consensus on proposals that must be presented beforehand, and, in order to make these proposals, we must first share an analysis and assessment of the results of the reform over the past three years, as well as of the situation and prospects of the economy, the financial needs of the institutions in order to fulfil their commitments. We find ourselves, Mrs Pinedo, in the joint evaluation phase of the reform that we must transfer to the Euskadi Tax Coordination Body. Today is May 5, and the entry into force should be January 1, 2018. Less than eight months to go. Do you understand why it's pressing? That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u43	Yes, Mr. President. The date, we all know, I know we must be there for the first time in January, but what's the occasion? Reform Attorney-General or recently announced adjustments? The adjustments are not a reform attorney, the adjustment is not what Mr. Subaltain demanded, but the adjustment is not the price required to support public services, and that's the way it is. Look, Mr Lehendakari, the truth is that what the last words of the Members of the House of Finance have shown us is that once again this is going to be left in drunk water; once again, the so-called tax reform is going to be a "let's take a couple of things and that's it." And, unfortunately, that is not what Mr Azpiazu was saying, or at least Mr Azpiazu, it is not what you moved. You said that there were still options to raise the tax burden and that there were options to collect more on corporate tax, and that's not what the deputies are transferring. What the parliaments are moving is that it is little movement. What they are moving, unfortunately, is that it will follow the path marked by the People's Party in fiscal policy. Once again, the path marked by the People's Party, which has already said that little movement. If you really want to do a tax reform, you'll have us on your way. He'll have us on his way. But if what you're going to do is kill the tax reform before it's born... Because that's what the deputies are saying, they're not going to do that tax reform. What you're going to do is a mess; a mess to cheer up, to please the new comrades you've been looking for, which is the People's Party, the party that has systematically refused a tax reform in this country. Because the People's Party has no interest in us having enough money in this country for public services to be the ones that this country deserves and for Basque society to move forward as it really deserves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, the institutions agree with the purposes we wish to achieve, and also with the methods of working. We got a wide consent to the previous transformation or previous reform and now we want to confirm it. Through this reform we have secured public services, and in this we were the Jest Party, the Social Party, and the Popular Party. We helped promote economic growth and create employment. We want to confirm these targets too. We're in the middle of a fucking self-portrait, and we're a Socialist Party, and so the government program we signed is saying. We are therefore giving strict compliance to the government program, which says: "We will encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the precise fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services." That is our commitment, and we will do so from the broadest possible institutional and political consensus. This is our shared commitment in the Tax Coordination Body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of Jule's Arzuga Guuzi EH Union, made to the President, and to give up the exceptional legislation after the annihilation of him." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. The former UN Special Rapporteur on human rights in the fight against terrorism, Martin Scheinin, paid a visit to the Spanish State in 2008, and in his subsequent report he said: "The Spanish legislative framework for the fight against terrorism has been elaborated on the basis of the fight against ETA", denounced ad hoc legislation, therefore. It expressed concern about the measures that are put in place when a crime is described as terrorism, and listed those measures. And he was talking about incommunicado detention, the exclusive competence of the National High Court, the possibility of keeping suspects of terrorism in provisional detention for up to four years. He was talking about the worsening of sentences, the modification of the rules on the enforcement of sentences. And he denounced, therefore, that Spain was rushing for a slippery slope, and explained it: "The gradual extension of the concept of terrorism to conduct that does not involve or have sufficient relation to the commission of acts of serious violence against citizens". This was reported ten years ago by this rector of the United Nations, but we must say that he maintains it, except that he has receded. These laws, measures, and politics have not changed; they subsist in this, and they are violated by human rights. But the situation has changed, and that cannot be denied. On April 8th, however, he ceased to be an armed organization, an orderly, final, complete, and visible disarming. It cannot be denied that the annihilation of the community and the useful political consequences have been favorable to it, but we think that it must have also legal, legal, and legal consequences. This penal, penance, and administrative law, which justified the struggle against them, is no longer justified at present, but is now excluded. It must be abandoned by a transition to a law which contributes to common legislation, or peace, and political normalization of life. So this is my question: What will your government do, how will it be to stop these exceptional laws and measures after the annihilation of the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuagaga, the RedMork, in November 2014, presented a proposal on the Direct Road, and that's the criteria we have on this subject, even in this time of law. Now, after the perpetual and unconditional rebellion of the law of ETA, this proposition has taken possession of force, and we say: When terrorism has disappeared, the normal state of the prison and punishment has to be restored. It is a priority to regain the normal state, which will help to direct and strengthen our society's partnership. Zuzen Bidean, Mr Arzuaga, you know that you are putting forward proposals to abandon the exceptional situation and return to normal. We advocate the amendment of Organic Law 7/2003 (and you know, as we know, that here is the key, in the amendment of Organic Law 7/2003), since the use of violence and its threat have disappeared faithfully and definitively. We advocate for prison surveillance courts in the territorial area of the prison where the prisoner is held. We call for maximum agreement to implement the express recommendations that are being made by both institutions and international human rights agencies. Therefore, Mr. Arzuga, the document is called rightly on the Way, because the shortcuts are turned aside and proposed to go back to the path of justice, which is indispensable to build a context that will bring about a solution of the conversation and the problem. That's what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u51	Yes, I know the document straight on the way, and I will say that it may be a good frame to begin with it, but that's what it is, how it is operating straight on the Way. When you rented the last stage of the peacekeeping plan, you'd appreciate it, but it's clear that in this section the Spanish State is not an agent who has to move because it's a City officer hasn't moved and has a lot of family jobs, isn't it? We still see at the present time their attitude to the poor prisoners, which is expressed in this prison instrument, for some time past. The dispersal of the prisoners remains. It maintains the effort to make freedom difficult. The inhabitants of the town are kept (Salasus, Orere) still to take them to the national audience. And we think it's enough and we want to know what's going on in order to make sure you're satisfied. I think that the Spanish State ought to be moved from one side. You don't have to do a searchivity plan, you have to move to protect human rights. There's no quid pro quo for anything, you have to move, and that's why I'd like to see a fun with a signaling attitude, a pressure and an exhilaration to keep moving to the Spanish State, because it's her turn and that's supposed to be operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, you're saying you're going to come to a grand agreement about the prison and social policy, and we'll continue to propose an honest conversation between the Basque and the Spanish government. For in the former legislation, it was not possible, but I repeat, in the present law, the Spanish Government and the President of the Spanish Government have all the proposals I have made in his hands. On the line, the document makes 20 exact proposals. 10 of them do not require change of law, but the 10 others do. So far as these propositions are supposed to be changed by the law, the key is brought to a context in order to obtain the agreement of conversation and of the majority. In order to accomplish this, we need a positive and constructive contribution of many motives, not only to the Spanish Government, but to the positive and constructive contribution of many agents, even of the patriotic left hand. That's the criteria we have to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpodate, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team, made to the head of the Security department, bordering on the use of paralyzing Taser pistols."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u55	Good morning again. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, over the past few months I have asked you some questions about the Taser electric pistols that you acquired your department for use by the Ertzaintza Mobile Brigade, which are now the immediate response patrols. The purpose of my questions was to know the degree of safety that the use of these weapons presents to people who may be suffering from various health conditions, such as people with pacemakers or severe, epileptic, asthmatic heart disease, or electromagnetic sensitivity syndrome, among others. The truth is that the lack of concrete answers has surprised me. That is why I have decided to ask you about how you are going to ensure the safe use of these weapons by the agents in your activities. And I believe that these guarantees have to do with two main issues. On the one hand, the safety or safety of the pistols themselves. And, on the other hand, how, when and where these guns are going to be used by the agents, that is, what the protocol of action is going to be. On the first issue, that of gun safety, I asked you this question because I imagine you know that in 2012 Amnesty International published a report in which it attributed some 500 deaths to the use of taser guns in the United States within a time frame of just ten years. Of those five hundred deaths, according to Amnesty International, and I read textually, "the forensics cite the taser weapons as the cause or contributing factor of more than sixty deaths" (the forensics, not Amnesty International), "among them" – and I keep reading textually – "the risk is greater in people who suffer from heart disease or whose organisms are more at risk due to drug poisoning or after a fight". And here I have to say that Amnesty International, in its 2012 report, mentioned that among the five hundred cases analyzed... It says, "90 percent of the deceased"... I'm sorry, I said that in one of your responses, which you delivered to us from the department, you indicated that the tasers are approved by the manufacturer for the use to be made of them, with the corresponding certificates. However, when I applied for these certificates of approval it turned out that they did not exist, or in the next reply they said that they did not exist. Instead they sent me a technical report from the manufacturer ("confidential" puts here, although you have sent it to the press yesterday), in which the manufacturer company provides medical-scientific explanations about the goodness of electrical discharges. But – and this is what I would like to highlight here – the manufacturing company in no case certifies or takes responsibility for the safety of weapons in their use against any kind of person and under any circumstances. And I want to highlight the word "anyone", because in that report we talk specifically about pacemakers, but nothing is said about epileptic people, asthmatics or people with previous heart disease. And I quote these conditions without diving too much in other health situations that could be aggravated by an electrical discharge of 50,000 volts, which is what the "users" – in quotes – receive from this weapon. This lack of guarantees on the part of the manufacturer means that, if the weapons are not as safe as it says, the ultimate responsibility will always lie with the department. In the department, or in the agents and agents who use them, of course. Because this brings me to the second question that I raised to you in your day, which is nothing more than assessing the safety of these weapons when using them. In my first written question I requested a copy of the protocol for the use of these weapons, and the truth is that I am still waiting for it. The press has been told that there is, and I imagine that today you will clarify whether such a protocol exists. But what seems obvious is that, just as things work in the Ertzaintza, if one day there is a painful event in which these weapons are involved, it will be the agents on foot who will take the worst part. We have already seen what has happened in the Cabacas case, where criminal responsibility always, always belongs to the person who pulls the trigger, and never, ever to the person who puts the gun in his hand or orders him to use it. In today's press reports, sources from the department say – and I quote textually – that "the agents decide, on the basis of the situation presented to them and their degree of gravity, how to react and the means to use". Of course, it is therefore important that there be a serious, rigorous and consensual protocol with the agents themselves who must use these weapons, which contains all the possible insecure conditions that can be given in the use of electric guns. And I will quote three special conditions that can be given. The first is that the taser guns cause an electrical discharge to the suspect who causes him to lose control of his arms and legs for at least five seconds. This means that depending on where that person is, he or she may suffer from a fall from high altitude, a hit on the public street or any other unwanted trouble. For example, falls can also be fatal if used against pregnant women, says the manufacturer himself. But who would be responsible in this case? For, of course, the agents and the agents on foot, who make the decisions, as you have brought to the press. On the other hand, the taser is an electrical equipment, and, as such, its use in certain enclosures can cause the explosion of flammable liquids or vapors, such as gasoline, natural gas, alcohol, sewer gases or clouds of self-defense spy. This means that agents should know that their own lives are in danger by using these weapons in those places, depending on where they are to be used. And the third special circumstance that makes taser guns useless is the fact that the suspicious person is wearing very thick clothes. Because – and I imagine that parliamentarians won't know – the gun throws two darts that snap into the skin and then comes the discharge, and the manufacturer says that the gun may not be effective for individuals provided with bulletproof vests or thick coats. I mean, it probably doesn't work with people who are really equipped to do real harm, because, from what I know, a jihadist never goes to the chest uncovered. This is obvious. And this leads me to make one final reflection that I think is relevant. In the manufacturer's report it says, on page 15: "Let's not be fooled, it is a guarantee of good use that the taser can only be used by the police, as long as it does it properly." And it is that proper use not only has to do with how, when and where I have just referred to, but also has to do with proportionality in its use. And this has to be made very clear in the protocol of action, because the mere fact that the taser pistols are qualified as non-lethal weapon seems to implicitly give white paper to use it more assiduously and with lower preventions than those with which, for example, the regulatory weapon is used. And I have to say here that Amnesty International in its 2012 report mentioned that, among the five hundred cases of deaths analyzed – it says – "90 per cent of the deceased were unarmed people". And it also says textually that "many of the victims were subjected to multiple downloads." That is, that not only was the weapon used inappropriately, but there was a bleeding from the mere fact that, as it was not a lethal weapon... But that had bad consequences. Amnesty International concluded with a sentence that summarises very well what I mean when I refer to the proportionality of the use of such weapons, as well as when other materials such as the rubber balls themselves are used. Amnesty International says: "The most disturbing thing about the police's use of taser weapons is that most of the people who later died did not pose a serious threat when the police subjected them to discharges." I think this should be an argument that makes us reflect calmly and calmly before putting on the street weapons like those we are talking about today. Better to prevent than to regret.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning again. First of all, I would like to remind you, Mr Becerra, that these electronic devices, the taser weapons, are recently incorporated into Ertzaintza, more specifically last March. They have just been incorporated as one more mechanism of police strength for the exclusive use of the Mobile Brigade, and in particular, as you have said, for immediate response patrols, patrols that have been operational since December. Patrols that, unlike those of citizen security, are composed of three members (one officer and two officers), all belonging to Mobile Brigade, who have received specific training and instruction, appropriate to the functions they have to perform; specific instruction also for the use of these weapons; instruction to attend to and intervene in incidents where the performance of citizen security patrols is considered insufficient. Incidents in which, due to their complexity, their dangerousness, these citizen security patrols need to be reinforced by more qualified agents, with their own training, with specific training, with technical and operational equipment in accordance with the situation to be monitored. They are immediate response patrols that will respond to and intervene in situations of high risk, serious risk to the safety of persons or property. And it is in that context (in that context) in which the Ertzaintza, like other policemen in the world, has seen fit to have these mechanisms, these electronic control devices, known, as I said before, as taser guns. And, as is always the case with the acquisition of new materials, as is always the case with Ertzaintza, the indications and technical specifications for type-approval and the quality control requirements of the manufacturer himself are taken into account and analysed in detail. In this case and in all others. We also analyze the contrasted experiences of other police forces that have already made use of these control mechanisms. And above all (I insist, above all) account is taken of the evaluation and validation of the many, many tests that has already performed expert personnel of the Ertzaintza itself. And this is how these expert personnel and police officials decide the procedure for using these electronic devices, limiting their use exclusively to Mobile Brigade personnel, and more specifically to personnel assigned to immediate response patrols. In any case, as I say, to be used in duly evaluated exceptional situations, in those incidents in which there has been no other way of controlling extremely aggressors than by means of personal defence techniques; to better ensure the safety of such aggressors, of agents themselves and of third persons who might be affected. Obviously, the incorporation or the decision to incorporate these weapons has been accompanied by an ad hoc procedure, of course, as I have said before, of the necessary training in the use they require. Staff who may use them have received specific training to ensure that, in the case in which they have to use them, they are properly instructed. And it's personnel authorized for use. Therefore, perfectly delimited the scope of use, fixed the procedures of use, formed the agents who have to use them... Therefore, you will not see them on citizen security patrols, you will not see them in other units other than Mobile Brigade or, if necessary, intervention groups. And if at any time you were to witness an intervention, an action by any of these rapid intervention patrols, then you will see that the use makes it an authorized taser operator. I insist, duly trained, duly instructed, duly authorized. In any case, it is always going to be a police action in which those responsible have to face a risk generated by a person in a violent attitude, who have considered and assessed on the ground (actually, assessed on the ground) the need to use this electronic device, in front of or as an alternative to the use of the regulatory firearm. As you already know, these paralysing pistols, like any other weapon that is used by the Ertzaintza, are regulated by Royal Decree 137/93, which was revised in 2011 and which establishes the weapons regulations. Therefore, it limits its use exclusively to the police, to specifically qualified officials. It is therefore a weapon of exclusive use for police and military personnel. They are incorporated into many European and non-European police officers, and it is each security department, each responsible, that sets and adapts the rules of use to the circumstances it considers. To give an idea, no less than 220 municipalities in the State have acquired these weapons for the use of their local police officers. By the way, some of the municipalities ruled by you. Obviously, the procedure of use that each one follows... well, as I say, has its procedures, and adapted to the circumstances of each one. I can come and answer for what the Ertzaintza has done. In our case, as I say, limited the use to the Mobile Brigade, in the specific case to intervention patrols, and, as always, the suitability of its use will be determined by the assessment made by the agent in the specific situation. In any case, it implies a manifestation, a use of force, and therefore must be subject to the criteria and stipulations that have been observed for the use of force and that govern the use of force. And when I speak of principles, I am talking about the principle of legality, which must govern any police action, and respect for international human rights standards; that it is in accordance with the principle of exceptionality, which implies that other less harmful resources have been exhausted, or the impossibility of using those other resources, and that it respects the criterion of proportionality, which recalls that the force employed must always be proportional to the aggressive force that motivates it. And that it conforms to the principle of suitability. That is to say, it responds to a prior risk assessment. Before acting, we must always evaluate those circumstances surrounding the act, we must evaluate the nature of the act, we must evaluate the place where it occurs, we must evaluate the risks that exist for the aggressor, for the agents themselves, for third persons, for the goods, and, in any case, we must always try to act by causing the least possible injury, which is the criterion with which the Ertzaintza always acts, taking all the precautions that are usual in this type of weapon and that are collected through police instructions. By the way, you asked for the procedure on February 8, when the taser guns were still not distributed and the procedure was not completed. And in this case, I told you, the precautions and the forms of use are contained in the procedure of use of the electronic taser control device, which came into force, as I say, when these guns are distributed in the immediate response patrols. Therefore, approved devices, restricted use of mobile brigade units, and more specifically immediate response patrols; assessment of the situation in which they should be used, and always, always as an alternative, when other less harmful means have been exhausted, and as an alternative to the use of firearms. There is a well-defined procedure that determines, as for the rest of the weapons, when, how and under what conditions this weapon should be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u58	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u59	Well, with regard to the two issues that I raised at the outset, the question of the security of arms itself seems to me to be a fundamental issue, because this is not the first time that the Ertzaintza has used a weapon of which it does not have all the information or all the certifications. I put, for example, the defense spirits used to reduce the detainees, and I have to remind you of the case of Juan Calvo, who was arrested by the Ertzaintza in August of 93 and who, according to the sentence of conviction, died in an Arkaute cell because of the gas used by the agents to reduce him, which caused him to have pulmonary edema that killed him. It was then found that two other people in the United States and Great Britain had also died from the inhalation of that gas, and the spy manufacturer himself had not warned of the associated risks. I want to tell you this because of the information that the manufacturer has transmitted... so, obviously, what is the manufacturer going to say? That your guns are safe! But he doesn't certify it. He doesn't certify it. With this I reiterate on this issue: that it is the Department of Security that will assume all responsibility in case there is a painful outcome, in some case. Because you told me, "Well, actually, they're going to be used under some conditions, with a risk assessment..." And it is true that the Ertzaintza often has to face people with extreme aggressiveness, possibly because they have consumed narcotics or emerged from a fight, which leaves them in extreme aggressive conditions, right? But it is precisely the manufacturer himself who says that it is in such cases when there is a risk of sudden death, when used with people who are in an extraordinary state of excitement. So, I understand that within the protocol, when agents are left to walk the possibility of making that decision, obviously the agent on foot, if he encounters a bodily, aggressive person, under extraordinary conditions of exaltation, because, obviously, as they have told him that it is not a lethal weapon, make the decision to use that gun, but it is precisely in those conditions that the greatest risk of death of the suspect will occur. And there are other weapons, such as extensible batons, that make it possible to reduce such people without the need to use such weapons, which, as I say, are being questioned by Amnesty International, forensics and other circumstances. Because you said that you have to cause as little damage as possible. That also means using the right weapons. And I think that the issue of taser weapons should be better assessed, because I have no doubt that there are many police officers who use them in many countries – in others they are banned – but if there are already five hundred cases of deaths where guns have been involved, then I think that we should act with a certain prudence. And, well, I'm glad there's already a procedure, which they didn't have in February. What I would ask is that this procedure be agreed with the agents and agents on foot, who have to use it, with their union representation or with whom it is appropriate, because, as I say, the circumstance in which the manufacturer leaves us is that the responsibility will fall to the department, but the criminal responsibility will fall to the agent or agent who makes the decision to use that gun at a given time. So it seems to me to be a sensitive enough issue that it is those and those agents who, ultimately, know the procedure, have given the approval to the procedure, and somehow there is a consensus that when then things - which I hope will not be so - are wrong given, for obviously everyone does not wash their hands and end up being blamed for the agents who are ultimately on the street, who are the ones who are at risk and who at one time, in response to that risk, can end up with another greater one, who is criminally accused of a death that was not expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u61	Look, Mr. Becerra, we're talking about guns. Weapons are safe if they are not used. They're safe if they're not used. It always depends on the use and the way it is used. Same as a vehicle. How many deaths are there for traffic-related issues? A vehicle is safe. Sure, it depends on how it's used, how it's driven. Then risks... Risk always exists; safety 100 percent never, unfortunately. And there are countless technical, medical, expert, forensic, police reports that talk about the scope of taser guns in terms of their side effects, and especially their health effects. In any case, this debate is reflected in reports, lots of medical and expert reports, which has allowed its approval and is allowing the regulated use in the hands of public officials of police or military bodies, duly trained and trained. It is, therefore, an instrument of police use that lies between firearms and personal defence techniques. It is a tool for controlling dangerous people who cannot be reduced only by personal defence techniques, and there could be more serious consequences of using firearms. It is therefore an alternative. Obviously, use must be avoided whenever possible and whenever possible, and that is a principle that is clear to each and every one of the Ertzaintza agents and agents who are trained in their management. But that elementary, basic principle does not relieve us of the responsibility with which we have to deal with specific situations in order to ensure the safety of people and avoid major evils. Of course, do not question the professionalism of those responsible for Ertzaintza who have considered it necessary to incorporate these taser devices into immediate response patrols. Nor does it call into question the professionalism of the instructors, of the agents, who are specifically trained to deal with this responsibility. The procedures are clear, the training is exhaustive, the instruction that the professionals are giving is the one that they have considered most appropriate and necessary. They are public security professionals, professionals and guarantors of our security, duly trained and trained. The use of tasers, like that of any other weapon, is more or less harmful, always has to be exceptional, because exceptional will also be the situation in which they are forced to use them, or exceptional situations in which they are forced to solve. In response to the question that gave rise to this inquiry, if the incorporation of these electronic Ertzaintza control devices were approved, I must tell you that the evaluation and validation processes and procedures that are in place have been strictly followed. Detailed procedures and precautions for use have been established. The areas of use and the responsibilities associated with their use have been very precisely (very precisely) delineated. The use controls and precautions to be taken have been defined, so that neither the agents nor the person concerned suffer unnecessary damage, even once the situation has been controlled. For all this, and above all, he was told that the personnel who are authorized to use them have been instructed on the basis of the applicable legislation, on the basis of the general principles laid down in the Ertzaintza on the use of force. That is, respect for the criteria governing the use of force, and, of course, for when other less damaging resources have been exhausted, alternative to the use of firearms. We cannot guarantee that nothing will ever happen, in the same way that we cannot guarantee, nor can a manufacturer guarantee, that, depending on the use made of a vehicle, there will be a death due to the use of that vehicle. As I say to you, the guarantee, the security 100 percent unfortunately does not exist. The risks are there, we have to take them, and that's part of our responsibility. Responsibility is to make an orderly use and a consistent use of each of the means available to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u62	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the general examination of the finances and special jurisdictions of the Basque Autonomy in the Renaissance." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u63	Thanks again. Good morning again. At last in 2016, after a profound effort and labour, we succeeded in advancing the Law of the Local Institutions among them all. For years, we accepted the law that our councils waited for in 2016. It was an important step to light up the finances of the local institutions, and to fix the paper of the local institutions in the Basque Council, which is the fundamental fund of the finances of our institutions. In the course of this edition, it was announced in the law that in the year's term, the finance of the Central Table, and the rights of his own jurisdiction, would be examined. Therefore, our question is: We want to know if you're gonna check this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u65	Andrea president, Pinedo andrea. First of all, Mrs Pinedo, a clarification of the way in which the question has been formulated, since the law on local institutions in Euskadi does not instruct the Government to carry out the analysis mentioned in the question, but rather the Basque Finance Council, which, as you know, is a mixed body composed at this time by the Government, the deputies and Eudel representing the Basque municipalities. This, it is true, has not yet finished the rights and the work of their financial work under the Basque Council of the Public Finances, but that's what it is. Having said that, the interinstitutional working group set up within the Basque Finance Council for the elaboration of the competitive analysis and financing required by the Local Institutions Act has not yet completed its work. As you know, Mrs Pinedo, already at my first appearance in the Committee on Finance and Budgets on 20 January last, I announced that the group set up would start working soon to reach a report as soon as possible. Since then, the group, in addition to its membership, has held three meetings (on 10 and 27 February and on 10 March), and they have established a working methodology, a report index content, and the identification of the documentation necessary to make it up. The information gathered must be studied and conclusions drawn, and that is precisely what is at stake. This is not an easy task, as it is understandable, but it is also not an easy task to incorporate three institutional levels into a newly launched financial and competitive model. In almost all probability, this month there will be new meetings to move forward. The purpose of the report, which is true that it should be ready by 16 April, is to obtain a good contribution law, and I pledge to close it as soon as possible so that we can draft the new law this same year. More meetings will probably be held in this month, and, to be honest, the report that was to be on the 16th of April this year. The goal is for me to make a good contribution, and after the report has been done as quickly as possible, to see if we have a new law of contributions this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u67	Yes, thank you, chief physician. Yes, I know that in fact it belonged to Consejo Vasco de Finanzas, but you know, I'm pretty sure that the representatives of fun were taking care of it. What is the Basque Finance Council competent for? I will not question that, but it is the representatives of the Basque Government who took that responsibility. And the reality has been that until February, as you have indicated, the first step has not been taken. I mean, ten months, ten months they've been lost. Ten months have been lost on an issue that is crucial, essential for the financing of the local entities of our country. Because they've been claiming it, it's a historical claim, and it's still a claim because the law has been made. Ten months in which many things could have been done and, unfortunately, have not been done. We are glad that three meetings have been held (we had some information), but the truth is that it is a fundamental issue, as you have said, because a new law of contributions has to be adopted, which will have to be adopted sooner than later, as he said, because it is more than necessary. I'm not going to be the one to defend that model. As much as you tell me that it is not an easy task to incorporate three institutional levels, that is the model for which the Basque Nationalist Party chose. That is not why this Member of Parliament has chosen to do so. So, then, good. But, I insist, it's a breach. The law said that for one year, and one year ended in April. And it's May 5th. If the contribution law were so urgent, I think nothing would have happened because it had put a little bit more speed in forming a group, in the time to start working for something that was taken as a matter of business by the representatives of the Basque Government on the Basque Finance Council, which was decided in the negotiation of the law itself – which you well know – both by EH Bildu and by the Basque Nationalist Party. Because from EH Bildu we are clear that the municipalities, the local entities of the country, have a need to clarify what their financing model is, because they are claiming it historically and because they are continuing to claim it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u69	Pinedo andrea, the pace and the work depends on the set of institutions, not only the Basque Government, and this government has barely been in operation for five months. The law is long overdue, but the working group has begun to march when this Government has also started. And believe me that, of course, no one is more interested than the Government in completing the analysis and study and having a new law. And I do not find it useful simply to ensure an adequate distribution of public expenditure in the Basque administration, as the Basque Local Institutions Act says, which you recalled when asking the question, but above all because this country and its whole institution need a new law of contributions with guarantees of functionality and with the consensus of all institutions. I am putting forward a calm and consensual report between all the institutions, which brings us the light to draw up a good and lasting law of contributions, to the formal fulfilment of a deadline, with all the respect that this Parliament's mandate deserves as regards the deadline. In any case, from the Basque Government we believe, Mrs Pinedo, that it is vital to design a substantive law, based on institutional consensus (and this is important, consensus), and to ensure the financial sufficiency of public administrations to address the priorities of the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Public and Autobernus of the Arts of Workers of the Arts." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Erkoreka, good morning. During the profound and serious economic crisis that we have been through over the past few years, from which we have probably not finished leaving but which has affected us in any case in a very remarkable way, public administrations, among other actors, had to make an important effort to rationalize spending. An important rationalization effort to, among other things, maintain public services. It is also true that this rationalization effort was dictated by higher bodies, but there was a need and a priority objective, which was the maintenance of essential public services. But this rationalization obviously affected many sectors, also that of officials, and, as you also know, in particular the public offer, which was frozen. Today we can generally share that the economy improves, that the data are more positive, and that, without losing that objective of rationalizing the public administration, which must be a permanent objective in our public action, times are different and allow to vary those policies that had to be adopted throughout the economic crisis. One example of this is that last March 29th the Ministry of Finance reached an agreement with the most important public service unions (Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF) so that, as a result of this agreement, over the next few years around 250,000 public administration posts – I speak in general, in all of Spain and in all administrative ranks – can be stabilized jobs. In this way too, and as a result of this agreement, the Government empowers the administrations (the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities, the municipalities and the deputies) to make this public offer of employment. All of this you already know, but let me contextualize the question. As there were no budgets in March, as there were no General State Budgets, the new Government adopted a royal decree, Royal Decree-Law 6/2017, which removes, inter alia, the barriers to public employment for replacement rates, etc., etc., and allows full coverage of generated vacancies. But this royal decree – and that is the aspect on which I want to ask you – says a very concrete thing, and I quote literally: "Each administration must evaluate and quantify its vacancies, negotiate with the unions, assess the needs of the future and approve its offer of places by the competent governing body". The question, therefore, Mr Erkoreka, is very simple and very brief: what are you doing to achieve this goal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr Semper, I agree with you in identifying temporality as one of the problems of public employment. Not only in Euskadi: this has been the case in all the autonomous communities. In fact, the public employment plan that the Government adopted in December 2015 already identified this as one of its priority objectives, namely the reduction of time, the consolidation of public employment. That design also responded, on the other hand, to much of the additional provisions of the Public Employment Bill that the Government referred to the House in the past legislature and that it embarrassed here in Parliament, and to that design responds to one of the commitments of the framework agreement for economic revival and employment 2017-2020, which the Government recently approved. The tenth point speaks precisely of the consolidation of public employment. In his public presentation, Lehendakari made a reference to this very issue, including by quantifying how much public offers in the coming years could amount to in the Government. The problem that has been faced, indeed, by efforts to consolidate employment, to stabilize public employment, has been the successive replacement rates, which between 2012 and 2015, imposed by the central government, have set a replacement rate of zero per cent on a general basis, and of 10 per cent in the priority sectors, which has inevitably multiplied the temporality in all public administrations. As you rightly say, it seems that this approach is beginning to reverse, and indeed an agreement at the end of March this year opens up the possibility of recovering part (not all) of the temporality, which stabilizes part of the temporality generated during this period, through the mechanisms envisaged there. I, in short, have no way of recognizing that the agreement has parts... it is insufficient, on the one hand, but it is exploitable on the other. It is insufficient because it continues to appeal to the replacement rate, which I believe is still a problem for human resources planning in all public administrations, but it is exploitable, because it contains mechanisms that have not been present in the basic regulations of the State in recent times. Well, this agreement still lacks legal formalization. You have spoken of the royal decree-law, which refers only to part of those collectives. There are other collectives in the agreement that are not in the Royal Decree-Law and are incorporated into the State Budgets Act. Therefore, we must first wait for the adoption of the State Budgets Act, and I hope that it will not be difficult. But as soon as the Law on General State Budgets is adopted, there is no doubt that the exploitable remnants of the agreement signed by the Ministry of Finance with the trade union representation of the State that will allow for measures to be taken, to move forward in the stabilization of the staff of the public administrations, all, in all sectors of the Basque Country, will be launched. Some, those that can already be launched, will do so immediately, without further delay, in security for example, because the royal decree-law that you have quoted directly enables them. In other areas, it was to be expected that the law would be adopted, but as soon as the law was adopted all mechanisms would be put in place. This is the will of the Government; the desire and commitment of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u75	Yes, it is article 19 of the State General Budgets Act, if I am not mistaken, which contemplates practically in a literal way what also contemplates the royal decree to which I have referred earlier. Article 19 that, as far as I know, has not been amended, article 19 that seems to be consolidated, and that if everything goes as it should go will be approved in the context of the law of general budgets of the State. Which means we already have the frame. It is true that not all replacement rates are eliminated, one hundred percent, in all areas of the Administration, but in the essentials: health, education, police, justice..., that is, aspects, by the way, which are also especially within their competence. I am satisfied with your response, we will see over the coming weeks and months what steps the government is taking, but if you can contribute something in your reply in relation to the negotiation with the unions... That seems to us to be particularly important, and especially complicated, too, given how the trade union landscape is in this autonomous community, why we are going to be fooled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, obviously an OPE must be negotiated, by legal requirement, with the trade unions. No OPE will be launched in any sector without prior treatment, discussion and possible agreement with trade unions. What I can tell you is that it is the Government's will to take advantage of all the possibilities offered by this royal decree-law, this agreement, to advance the consolidation of public employment and the stabilization of staffing, which has been a priority objective since the last legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u78	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 12th point in the theme list: "The Internation, the Tinisha Guanche Suáz Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Enplegu and the head physician of the Society, to improve DSBE's management on March 22nd, 2017." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u79	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmen. Well, the first thing I understand I have to say is that this inquiry arises before Mrs Artolazabal's appearance in committee, and by the publication on Irekia's website of the measures to – I quote in text – "improve the management and efficiency of GIR". As I have been left with some specific doubts, and as everyone in this Parliament already knows that I am an official question, we thought that it was no longer necessary to extend this information with the Counsellor. And when we presented this inquiry, we did so by literally copying the press release published by the Government on 22 March, which included seven measures set out in the justification for this inquiry, which disaggregated part of the ten measures that the adviser subsequently presented to us in the committee. So, as we raised in the inquiry, we would like the adviser to develop and expand how these ten measures will improve the management of income-guarantee income, considering that the GIR is now in a central place, but in particular what it has to do with the condition of people who perceive it. Firstly, because we understand that there are measures in which improvement is clearly seen, and others in which we have doubts. That's why we're going to gradually disaggregate its content. The first of the measures, related to the reduction of undue payments and in theory as a generic measure, seems to us to be correct. We believe that it is high time that means were put in place to curb the amount of undue payments. But, by rereading the explanations given by the counsellor in the appearance, we do not understand what it means when it is limited to detailing the proposal and it seems that it is oriented to the accumulation of undue payments with more agility, not to seek better forms of return of the perceptors. And we wanted to know if there was anything in this regard. With regard to living units and effective residence, we have not yet seen the link between these two aspects, and we would like you to clarify how the protocol of intervention with the local police institutions will impact on the improvement of that management for people. On the identification of Lanbide users, and taking into account what you stated in your appearance on April 10th, it is only a question of applying new technologies to facilitate the accessibility of citizens to the system. Are you implying that the use of biometrics for the control of people is not, being isolated its application in Lanbide and not in other services of the Administration, an element centered on control? We have already repeated on many occasions that we have doubts about this measure, because we believe that it should be implemented with a prior impact assessment, and above all because it will be implanted in an autonomous body that has a lot of movement, and any failure in identification or documentation causes human dramas. But it is also that we consider it to be a measure that leads to identification, not to making management more accessible. And we have concrete doubts, which I put forward, even though I know that you have no obligation to answer them to me because they are not contained in the interpellation. Are you going to imply that identification documents are no longer required? How will it be done in those cases where there are people who, while working, can't come to personally deliver that documentation, and there are legal mechanisms for other people to do so instead? The implementation of the fingerprint we believe that in the future it can be a way to identify yourself before the Administration, but you can and must take previous steps to ensure its proper functioning, before putting it in place to identify the people perceptors of RGI, who, we cannot forget, are in their entirety a collective that deserves special protection from the Administration. I hope that you will not disagree with this, because these are words made by Mrs Arregi on 30 April 2015 in this Parliament. On the rejection of offers of employment and training, counsel Artolazabal said in her appearance – and I quote textual – "allegating different situations of a personal or family type"... And we wonder where are the measures to facilitate conciliation, especially important for so many women who are alone with minors in charge. They propose measures to identify what is the right job in each person, and that is fine, but are measures also proposed to analyse the quality of these job offers, wages, days, tasks...? Is that encouraging work activation, as was stated in the press release published by Irekia? It seems to us serious that, in order to do this, layoffs should be equated with voluntary layoffs, or that, in quotes, "permission" should be asked to Lanbide to improve a job. The other day I asked him and he didn't answer me. I know you have no obligation, but I would like to know what decision-making capacity people will have around such important elements as improving or changing their jobs. With regard to the measure that has to do with the redesign of the work process, as well as those that have to do with the staffing and the improvement of the situation of resources and coordination with the Directorate of Disputes, I have already commented to you at the hearing that it seemed good measures, although I still have some doubts, that I am sure that you can resolve them today. On the anti-fraud unit, and pending your response, I would like to make two statements. The first is that many articles and opinions of experts who have analysed the income guarantee system, and you yourself in the past, agree that there is no significant level of fraud, because it has since its inception been subject to a high level of control. And the second is that the fact that a person commits a crime, a fraud, a extortion, also a tax fraud, for example, does not make the rest guilty. And I bring back here words that are not mine, but from Mrs Sarasua of the Socialist Party. Could you tell me specifically how the creation of this anti-fraud unit has an impact on the beneficiaries of the GIR? With regard to those measures that have to do with the communication of the social benefits system, could it detail what they will consist of and what concrete benefits are expected of them for people? Let us go on to say that this is not the first time I have said in this rostrum that it seems to me more than opportune, indispensable to inform citizens, and therefore I am not opposing this measure. Finally, in the appearance we were talking about quality indicators in the processing procedure, and for this year 2017 it is planned to end with the definition of the quality management model. We would like to see more information on the approach of this quality management, whether or not it incorporates a gender perspective, a rights perspective... Because we understand that it is not the same to implement a quality management model in a supermarket, in a metallurgy, as in a Lanbide office. We are not opposed to these initiatives, but, as I have already mentioned on other occasions, I have doubts as to how these certifications turn into people's attention. I'm sure you'll be able to make this clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u81	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Guanche, from our responsibility as a government I believe that it was necessary to take without delay a series of measures aimed at improving the management, control and information of the service that Lanbide provides to society, to the perceptors and to those who work in the Basque Employment Service. You checked this initiative on April 4th. I made public on March 22nd, and in March 23, to give you the exact details of all the measurements I requested. Also, on the 7th of April I answered a similar question, and on the 10th of April I came forward to give more detailed information about the contents of these measures. Today I once again detail the development of the measures we are putting in place to improve the management of the provision by Lanbide. From the Department of Employment and Social Policy we are working to improve the management and effectiveness of the measures being developed in the Lanbide area, and in the few months that we have been in the legislature we are showing this. Income guarantee income and supplementary housing benefits have prevented more than 130,000 people from living in poverty in Euskadi every year. A system like this must be continuously reviewed to improve its efficiency, thus achieving a fair, supportive system that responds to the needs of our society. The measures we have put in place are aimed at speeding up processing for users, optimising office work, providing a unique model of citizen care, promoting and improving greater coordination with administrations, and also improving the control of such aid. I recalled this in my committee appearance on April 10: the main objective we are pursuing is first and foremost to improve attention to all people, to all those who are users of Lanbide services, not only those who receive the provision of GIR. Also offer better guidance, better training, active job search, and also improve the income guarantee income management process, of course. This improvement means making it easier for the recipients of the benefit to have simpler processing, faster and more homogeneous responses to the relevant procedures, and at the same time to open this system to the whole of the citizenry for greater knowledge and appreciation. You ask me exactly how this management will be improved in a concrete way. Well, well, I'll tell you one more time. Perhaps in the previous appearances I have been unable to explain myself properly, but, well, the improvements, which we have already put in place some, are, as you have listed, first of all the reduction of undue payments, thanks to greater coordination with the General Treasury of the State, which will enable the massive and real-time crossing of information, with the aim of ensuring that people are not forced to make economic returns that would harm them. Here we aim to reduce undue payments, not accumulate them, so that they can be paid. What we have to try is that they do not exist, so that then they do not have that debt acquired with the Administration and have to return it. What we need to avoid is the occurrence of such payments in order to prevent them from being harmed. As for the units of coexistence and effective residence, we are preparing a model report to homogenize the checks of residence and of those units of coexistence, and we have already held numerous meetings with the municipalities of Euskadi. And there are difficulties, and you also know it perfectly well, in defining what a unit of coexistence is, and there are some situations that we need to improve and that we need to fix. We are also modernizing the service in coordination with Izenpe, incorporating new technologies, such as the digitised fingerprint. Izenpe is an organization and is a company that has experience in the accreditation of new technologies and that is helping us to implement them, with the aim of speeding up the efforts, not only of control: to speed up the issues and to facilitate the procedures to the people who are related to Lanbide and the Lanbide workers themselves, and also, of course, to identify those people correctly. This is an appropriate and secure system, which complies with the principle of transparency, modernisation and quality in the treatment of citizens, and which is also already implemented in other administrations and in other companies and services offered to citizens of this country on a daily basis. We also improve management by defining in detail what is suitable employment, to facilitate guidance work both in access to the labour market and in the training itinerary. With this we will improve the employability of each person. There are difficulties in offering, you also know it perfectly well, and rejections, because we may also not have been right in offering that person a job that can be assumed by her, and in that we are going to work. Lanbide must also provide an effective, homogeneous and equitable service, and it was necessary to establish a single criterion for all offices. And that is why we are reviewing the procedure, distinguishing between the stages of attention and resolution and what are then the stages of control and verification. To do this, we carry out an analysis of the workload of the offices, to find out what problems each of them have, and within the three levels, within what is the organization of Lanbide, see what each level has to be dedicated to and what its functions have to be. Lanbide's process of improvement and updating is carried out thanks to the commitment and professionalism of those who work there, of their staff, who are a fundamental part of this process. To this end, we are already working on the burden-sharing, on improving their training, on retaining staff, on filling vacancies, and also on establishing a protocol in the face of possible aggressions, because you are also aware that they occur, as in other public services offered by the Administration. We also worked to provide a faster and more appropriate response to the resources, which generated jams, because there was a problem in responding. And we are defining in a better way the procedure and processing of income guarantee income, determining what necessary and sufficient documentation has to appear in the file of each of the collectors. And although, as you well know, and as we have also said, the percentage of fraud is very small (it will be around 1%, more or less), we must be aware of its existence and of those fraudulent behaviours, which in the end very seriously harm what income security income is. We must protect and defend this system of protection built with the effort of all Basques, of society as a whole, and for this we are going to create an anti-fraud group (it was already beginning to be created) that brings together different services (because the problem of fraud or the problem of inappropriate or incorrect situations has different aspects, both in the legal part and problems that have to do with other kind), and in which the local offices in Lanbide are also participating. In addition, and in order to improve society's understanding of the contents of the new law in general, we will disseminate the concepts, objectives and targets of the law. The income guarantee income processing requirements have already been published on the Lanbide website, for an effective consultation not only of the collectors, but also of the professionals, to whom we will apply an easy reading system, and we will also incorporate on that web tutorial videos so that the users know better about the processing of the benefit. And finally, and lastly, we want to improve and dignify the objective of guarantee income. To this end, we will make regular communications (I have already told you on numerous occasions), and from the Government we are making special efforts to improve quality of service indicators and to transfer such progress to the public. This quality service has to be a quality that ensures that processing is done in an orderly manner, as in any other organization, both municipal and foral, or any other company that carries out an efficient and efficient service, but with quality standards based on the ISO that corresponds to it, in EFQM or whatever. We have begun a great advance and improvement, both in Lanbide and in the management of the GIR. And with that I don't transfer a self-congratulation perspective. We are aware of the need for improvement, and for this we are working from the beginning of the legislature. And I conclude. The continuous updating and improvement of Lanbide's management is a matter of concern to all of us, and in the Department of Employment and Social Policy we have been focused since the beginning of the legislature in the search for measures that make this service more practical, agile and effective. We think it's a necessary system to guarantee the incomes, and that an advanced society, like ours, is a socially cohesion. But it is a system that must be constantly reviewed to optimize it, making it more fair and supportive and responsive to the needs of Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u83	Thank you, first of all. It is true that you had already answered, and I thank you. It is true that this had already been dealt with, and that is why I have limited myself to explaining why I was bringing the inquiry back. It's also true that I'm leaving just like I came here, because I'm not done solving my doubts. You move that the goal is clear, speed up management. In some measures, as I have told you, I see it clear; in others I have doubts. I repeat, just in case you can solve any of it. On undue payments, for example, you transferred us to the appearance that a temporary computer application – the textual one – would be applied "to detect the variation of the situation of the collector and to communicate individually". I don't quite understand what this is, and if you can explain it to me, I'd appreciate it. On the subject of cohabitation units, I understand that. What I don't understand is what is so close relationship between living units and effective residence. I believe that these are two different issues, and that we must treat them as such. With regard to employment, I insist on my question: what choice will people have? And I am aware of how small fraud is, and I have said on many occasions in this rostrum and in the commissions that we are not saying that there is no need to combat fraud in income security income, however small it may be. But in your April 10 appearance, you said that this anti-fraud package was aimed at "identifying fraudulent behaviours present or possible." And I'm worried. And I'm worried about that "possible," because I don't know if we're talking about prevention or we're talking about the criminalization of poverty, which is something serious. And I quote Mrs Sarasua again in 2015: "Crimes belong to people with names and surnames, not to collectives or organizations, not even to people of the same color." And this is already coming from somewhere else and I'm not going on anymore. Crimes are people's, and that's why you go into contradictions with what you're telling me here: when you put in place a measure of persecution or a unit of persecution of fraud by posing the "possibles", we're already assuming that there's an entire organization around it. On the fingerprint you also said on the 10th that it was a breakthrough, using, in case you don't know, arguments quite similar to Mr. Maroto's in 2015. Concrete: It is clear that new technology systems must be incorporated to improve public administration systems, so that if they allow public officials to be identified when entering a unit, why not anyone who is a recipient of RGI in Lanbide. I don't think it has to be a bad choice in itself. I believe that an ethical assessment should be made of the implementation of this particular measure in Lanbide, for the perceptors and for those who are not perceptors. In any case, the other day Mr Alfonso Alonso said that, if the spray makes the affection, he hopes that this building of trust with you will continue. I sincerely hope that with your reply today I will be able to clarify my doubts, and above all that with your measures from now on you will show us that the priority is to defend the system and the people, and not to continue to implement measures more specific to the party that seeks, with attacks on the income guarantee system, to break social cohesion around it. I keep saying I'm leaving at first. I also thank you for your work and I thank you for your answers, and I promise you that I will not ask you again about this measure, but I do believe that perceptive people are not reflected in it, and that it is a duty to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I had no intention of commenting on a number of questions, but, of course, if you tell me, I have no choice but to answer you. Of course, the priority for this Government is to maintain the system that has been in place for many years with the help of all the political groups that have participated in this House, regardless of their ideology, and of which we and all of us here are very proud. Therefore, come and tell us that we are putting you at risk, when that is not true, because it bothers me. It also bothers me that in some way I try to equate the measures that this Government has put in place, and those that it is going to put, with the issues that Mr Maroto was advocating in the last parliamentary term, which do not seem like anything or have anything to do with it. What we are going to do – because it is also our obligation – is to protect the income guarantee system, and for that we are going to implement all the measures we have at our disposal. Because income guarantee income and Lanbide are not only limited to people who generate fraudulent situations, but what we are working with is people who have very important problems, and we have to help them in such complicated situations. You say that of criminalizing perceptors and associating poverty with criminalization. I do not say it at all, nor do I share it, and I reject it strictly. And it is you who are coming to stigmatize when you are talking about colors, people, races and so on. I have never said anything like that in my speech today, nor in the previous ones – and you know it perfectly well, Mrs Guanche. And I certainly don't think so, neither I nor my group. As for the wrong payments, so what to say! What we intend is that they do not exist. And as long as the Social Security Treasury doesn't roll over massively, we have to keep doing things. And we in Lanbide have a computer program that's going to pretend to inform the collector, say, "Hey, what's your job situation? - This one. "Find me, so that I don't generate an inadequate payroll, that you will have a problem in the future." That's the goal, that's all. In addition, I told him that we were thinking of doing it via SMS, using new technologies to facilitate communication with the Administration. After this question, I did want to highlight the measures, and the effects and consequences of those measures. I think it is time to stop trivializing this issue now. The application of new technologies in management will allow for an improvement in both the attention and management of it, and we need to implement and standardize the new advances that technology is allowing us. While that reflection is taking place and a more calm debate is coming, we must move forward, and we therefore distinguish what has to do with the possible reform of the law, from the concrete measures that we have the perfect right, within what is our organization, to implement. We are working to reduce the unemployment rate and to make more of the people who enter the world of work, and the figures we knew yesterday confirm that. And also the figures we know confirm that income-guarantee income earners are declining. They're diminishing, and that's something we have to be happy about, because these people are going to the ordinary market. Since May 2016, there has been a steady downward trend in the number of holders of cohabitation units of GIR. Since that date, the number of headlines has decreased by 2,511, and since the peak of history, achieved in May 2015, they have already decreased by 3.227. As for the first four months of 2017, there are 651 files less than at the end of 2016, and the annual balance counts that there are 2,360 files (living units) less than we had last year. Better management of this social benefit, coupled with an improvement in the labour market, are the main reasons for this decrease in the number of persons receiving this basic income. The decline is being more pronounced among men, and it is also being more pronounced among people under the age of thirty-four. The integration of young people into the labour market is easier, a fact which favours much of the reduction in the number of holders in this age group. Economic recovery generates more employment opportunities, which results in a decrease in the number of holders...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u86	Thank you, chief physician. The thirteenth point in the subject list: The question was, "Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Populcan Groups of the Environmental, Planting, and Chief of Housing Houses, had increased the personal expense of the URA Water Agency." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u87	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselor, in the financial year 2016, the expenditure item of personnel of URA-Basque Water Agency had budgeted 8,330,616 euros, with a staff of 158 workers (four senior positions, 20 officials, and 134 places of work). In the 2017 financial year, this expenditure item is EUR 9,257,317, i.e. EUR 926,697 more than in 2016 (an increase of almost 10%), with a workforce of 158 workers (four senior positions, 15 officials, 139 jobs: it is reduced by five officials and increases by five workers). In addition, in the 2017 financial year, a compensation of €325,000 is included in staff costs, which we would like to know what it is for. And there is still an increase of more than EUR 600,000, almost 7%. And we would like to know what that increase you raise in that budget line corresponds to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Chief, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u89	Thank you, President. Mrs López de Ocariz, as you say, the number of people employed in URA both in the 2016 exercise and also in 2015 has remained constant. At the end of 2016, the staffing table, by category, was as follows: four senior management posts, 118 technical staff and middle management, and 36 administrative staff. In total, 158 people. As you also say, the staff costs for 2016 were initially set at EUR 8,330,616 in URA budgets, but during the financial year 2016, a change of appropriations was made that raised this amount to EUR 8,749,353. This increase in expenditure in chapter I resulted from the implementation of the results of the employment report approved in the previous year. And it is that the current employment relationship of URA was approved in 2015 by its board of directors and published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on October 30, 2015. On the basis of this RPT, almost all of URA's staff moved to the status of contract workers and new valuations were made, which led to an upward wage adjustment with changes in many positions, especially in the technical and administrative group. Probably as a result of the dates on which this process took place, the increases in Chapter I resulting from this valuation were not reflected in the initial budget of URA, which resulted in the need for this change in appropriations to which I referred throughout the year. For this year, as you also mentioned in your question, the cost of budgeted staff is EUR 9,257,313. The increase in expenditure for 2016 is mainly due – also referred to – to a provision of €325,000 as a result of a dispute with an agency worker. It also envisages the planned 1 % wage increase for employees and the coverage throughout this year of three vacancies which are covered by the approved employment ratio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u91	Counselor, you will remember that when you presented the budgets I asked you a question on this issue, and you did not answer me. He did not answer me at the time, nor did he answer me later in writing, that it would have been something usual, that is usually done, but you did not do it. It is now telling me that it is an adjustment of the year 2016 and that that means an increase of almost 300,000 euros over the budgeted, but it is that I still lack 300,000 euros. Still. And he tells me he's going to provide three places, but I don't think the three places are worth 300,000 euros. So, counselor, I really think you have something else planned, and I want you to tell me. We'll probably see it, but I have the impression that you're not telling the truth or the doctor. It's an impression of me, personal. You're probably not right, but that's what you're telling me, counselor. And that's why I doubt you so much, because you simply have a hard time adjusting to reality and telling the facts as they are. I'm going to follow up on what you're doing, and I'd like to, if there's a need for more staff, then tell us! Tell us what it's like. I'm not gonna tell you if there's more need or not! You carry the address of URA, and if URA needs more staff and justifies it, then we will accept it, but that hiding what you actually plan to do, think that it gives me a lot to think about, and that you don't believe everything you tell me. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u93	Mrs López de Ocariz, I do not know why you are telling me what you are saying, since I have been quite explicit in my speech. And I have commented to you: there is a difference in the initial budget for 2016, with a modification of appropriations covering the consequence of the ratio of jobs, which implies the valuations; with respect to what is the final budget for 2016 and the initial budget for 2017 there is a difference of 500,000 euros, of which 325,000 are due to a provision of funds from an outstanding dispute with a worker (325.000 of 500,000), 1% wage increase (1 % wage increase for workers), and the coverage of three vacancies. Don't they give you the bills? Don't they give the bills to you? They're counting on me! And there's no more. I think it's pretty easy to make the count, having the reference of the data I've given you. And you have no doubt that I have nothing else to hide in this matter. And that the doctor used to tell the truth. And here too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpology, the members of Laura Garrido Konörr Basque Group to the head of the Medical Department, on the fibromialgia and chronic fatigue." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. We have seen this subject several times at different periods of legislation, and we must also say that we have come to terms with this subject. I think it's an interesting and important subject, to see what government's intentions are in this legislation too. The phybromical and chronic fatigue are serious and difficult diseases, most important diseases within the central syndrome of sensitivation; the diagnosis is clinical, and there is no other objective proof to make this diagnosis. We may at the present day say that there is no treatment to be cured, but it has been proved that it is a genetic presidency, and that it facilitates these diseases by connecting them with other factors. They have a great influence on individual quality of life, and also on the quality of their relatives. There's trouble doing a pregnostic, and most of the time it takes seven years to diagnose it. Fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome are complicated, severe diseases, diseases included within the central sensitisation syndrome; therefore, they are diseases that affect the nervous system. The diagnosis is clinical, but there is no clear objective evidence for such a diagnosis. Currently it can be said that there is no specific curative treatment, but it is proven that there is a certain genetic predisposition, and that along with other factors the occurrence of such diseases is facilitated. There are problems to make a certain diagnosis from the very beginning, and in most cases it also takes about seven years to be diagnosed. Argi dago bi gaixotasun hauek konplexuak say age gero eta eragin handiagoa dutela biztanlerian. It is clear, therefore, that we are facing complex, complicated diseases, but at the same time these diseases also have a higher incidence among the population, and also among the Basque population. It can be said that they affect 4% of the population, 90% of the cases in women. Gaixotasun kronikoak will say this personal bizitzaan familiar bizitzan eragin dute. Therefore, as I have pointed out, they are chronic diseases and have a strong impact, not only on the personal life of the people concerned, but also on family life. Fibromyalgia is characterized by generalized pain. It has, among other symptoms, generalized osteomuscular pain, chronic pain, fatigue, gastrointestinal problems, tingling sensation, numbness of certain parts of the body and sleep disorders, among others. In chronic fatigue syndrome what predominates is fatigue, fatigue, strong and prolonged exhaustion over time, which, of course, is not relieved with rest. It also has a broad symptomatic spectrum that includes headaches, anxiety and depressive symptoms. Ez dago friga-diagnostiko berezirik. It is difficult to obtain a diagnosis, and it also contributes in some way to the lack of specific training that doctors have, both in primary care and in specialized care. The patients undergo a pilgrimage by different specialists in search of the anxious diagnosis, with numerous visits to the doctors and numerous tests. We have had various debates in this House, as I have pointed out, agreements have also been reached, we have had appearances, and we are in a new legislature, and therefore from the Group of the European People's Party we have considered it appropriate to know what the Basque Government's aims are in relation to these two diseases; how they will be addressed throughout these legislatures issues related to the diagnosis, treatment, training of specialists, both primary care and specialized care; everything related to the detection and treatment of these diseases and to the promotion of actions that improve the quality of life of the sick. Looking at the government programme of the Basque Government and also the lines of the appearance in this House to explain the general outlines of the department by the councillor, we did not see a specific reference to these two diseases, in relation to concrete actions to put into effect throughout this legislature. We believe that there must be continuity in what has already been undertaken by the Basque Government, at the same time as this House, regarding the updating and elaboration of protocols for the care of these diseases, in relation to improving the coordination between primary and specialized care physicians, with the aim of obtaining this early diagnosis and better monitoring of the clinical evolution and treatment of the diagnosed patients, and also to avoid overmedication in many cases. We believe that continued training of primary and specialized care physicians is also necessary, greater collaboration and coordination with other communities to develop research lines in central awareness diseases, and, of course, to establish channels of communication and ongoing collaboration with affected patient associations. That is why we are asking the Government about the intentions in relation to the actions to be taken during this parliamentary term in relation to these two diseases. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u97	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mrs Garrido, good morning to all. The health department has worked on this subject for years. Several of the actions we have done for the past few years about the fibromial and chronic fatigue: on the one hand, through the formation directed to the professionals, on the other by the course of the course of the course of the patients, and finally by the improvement of co-ordination and co-operation. It is not the intention of the Basque Government to promote actions in relation to fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome. As you have rightly said, we have at least two legislatures working in this area. In recent years, important work has been done in the field of training professionals and patients, in the field of coordination and care integration, as well as in the relationship and collaboration with patient associations and specifically with patients affected by these diseases. I see that it presents as justification for the interpellation exactly the same text of another non-legislative proposal that was formulated in 2011, in the ninth legislature, a non-legislative proposal that was not adopted, but that a compromise amendment was adopted with a somewhat more ambitious alternative text than the one originally proposed. He resubmitted the same text of the justification again this time in 2013, in the tenth legislature, when he made another proposal not for identical law, with similar result: it was not approved, but a compromise amendment was also approved, this time signed by the Basque Nationalist group and by the EH Bildu group, whose compliance we duly inform this House in the previous legislature. In any case, I have no problem reporting on the actions that are taking place in relation to fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome, which, as I have said, I believe have been many and with good results. But it is also important to recognize and give a sense of normality to these diseases, and not to think that they are treated worse than others, because it is not true. In my appearance to present the strategic lines of the legislature or budgets for this year I did not name fibromyalgia or chronic fatigue syndrome, nor did I name diabetes or hypertension, nor did I name heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or most of the diseases that normally affect advanced societies like ours. I would like to make it clear that fibromyalgia is a disease recognized by the World Health Organization since 1992, and is therefore included in the curriculum of all medical faculties since then, and also since then residents of family medicine, internal medicine, rheumatology, psychiatry, psychology, also receive training during their post-graduate period in this regard. It is defined in the International Classification of Diseases Manual, both in CIE 9 and CIE 10, which is the one we currently use. However, as you have said, it is a chronic condition whose etiology continues to be unknown, which, as in other entities of these characteristics, makes it more difficult to understand and also to visualize. Indeed, in the scientific community itself there have been diverse positions and theories that have led to controversy on some occasions, not only in Euskadi, but globally. In any case, the reality is that it affects approximately, in Euskadi, we think that between 2 and 3% of the population. The characteristics of the disease, which you have reported, and the fact that its origin is unknown, make it necessary to focus health care so that the people affected receive adequate attention to their needs, based above all on the best scientific evidence available. And we understand that that's what Osakidetza is doing, and it's going to continue. A number of clinical trials have been conducted worldwide in recent years that have enriched the scientific literature and led to significant advances in knowledge of the disease. This being founded, the Medical Department encourages several actions from the tradition of the texts admitted in 2013 on this legislature. As you remember, the agreement took four pieces of work: to spread the clinical guides concerning these diseases, to improve the co-ordination of the physicians of the first care and hospital, to encourage and develop form and enquiry, and to keep the means of association and association with the injured patients. Thus, in line with the provisions of the parliamentary agreement, we have worked mainly on training professionals, patient training and empowerment, research, and improving the coordination of resources to treat patients affected by this group of diseases. In the field of training for professionals, a working group of experts was set up to design and develop clinical sessions on fibromyalgia and other central sensitisation syndromes, which have been conducted by primary care professionals, with the aim of raising the awareness of medical and nursing professionals, making known the latest developments in international consensus and updating the knowledge of these pathologies. The sessions have been held at the health centres in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and a total of 1,500 professionals have attended to date. In addition, specific training workshops have been organized for other related professionals, such as physiotherapists, psychologists, medical inspectors, etc. In total, there have been 1,820 professionals who have received training in this disease, which, as I say, since its description and acceptance by the WHO is included in the undergraduate and postgraduate curricula. On the other hand, we have also held courses with patient groups. A total of 19 courses have been organized, involving more than 300 patients. Professionals from Osakidetza have participated in congresses and scientific conferences, both in medicine and nursing, and activities have been carried out in civic centers and with associations of those affected by fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome. As you can see, there have been many actions in recent years in the field of training and awareness-raising, both for professionals and patients. In fact, we believe that training has contributed to the empowerment of patients in managing their health problem, and therefore to their benefit. Another aspect that undoubtedly contributes to improving health care for this group of patients has been to improve coordination between primary and specialized. It should be remembered that this is one of our main axes of action in the context of health care for these diseases and the rest, because what we are trying to do is not segregate any type of patient for that disease that affects him. We are convinced that the general measures to improve integration, social and health coordination and Community intervention have benefited patients affected by fibromyalgia. Finally, I must insist that there have been and will continue to be lines of open communication and collaboration with the different associations affected by fibromyalgia, so that they can participate in the design of the interventions as well as in the days that are regularly organized. In short, while we are facing a complex disease (this is reality), whose etiology is still unknown, whose diagnostic criteria are changing and have generated a multitude of debates, we are convinced that Osakidetza has given these pathologies attention and resources. And we are also convinced that the actions carried out have contributed significantly to their compression and recognition, as well as to the improvement of diagnosis and treatment; ultimately, to the improvement of the quality of life of patients. And we will continue to insist, with them as with the rest of the patients of any other kind of diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u98	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Well, thank you, Counselor, for all the explanations regarding the actions taken. And I would also like to refer to whether these actions are going to have continuity. I think from your words you can unravel that you do. In any case, from the People's Group we are pleased that this issue is on the agenda of the Department and the Government. And I have to say that this inquiry was initially motivated because there was no express reference in the appearance or in the government program. I understand that everything is not going to be referred to either, but it is one of the issues that, as you have rightly said, was placed on the agenda of this Parliament in the ninth legislature, governing the Socialist Party and being a counselor to Mr Bengoa, following an initiative, as you have rightly mentioned, of the People's Party; a non-legislative proposal that was also agreed by a compromise amendment by all the groups represented in this House, which basically respected the original text presented by the People's Party. It is true that in the tenth legislature, the last legislature, on 16 May 2013, no agreement was reached, but because we understood that the agreement reached was not how ambitious the moment required in relation to the approach to these two diseases. But, in any case, it is positive that throughout two legislatures all the issues that have to do with this complex disease, as you pointed out, have their own characteristics: that they are chronic diseases, that they have a late diagnosis, that also makes the sick and their relatives find themselves in a situation of despair when they are submitted or have to be a doctor in a doctor, that pilgrimage that leads them to perform multiple diagnostic tests, multiple visits to different specialists. It also has its own characteristic, because the majority of those affected are women: 90% of those affected are women. We also brought another pathology to this House in the ninth legislature, and also as a result of that initiative a plan was drawn up for the treatment of osteoporosis, which is also another of the diseases that mainly affect women. In any case, Mr. Counsellor, we will continue to monitor this issue, all that has to do with the training of doctors, with the coordination of the field of primary and specialized care, also with the courses that are carried out to the patients, with the research... And we hope that, since this issue, following several initiatives of the People's Party, was placed on the agenda of this government, also in line with the demands of the associations, and we had here the opportunity to have the appearance of the associations and also to have first-hand testimonies very enlightening of what these people suffer from these diseases, because we hope that there will be specific actions aimed not only at the sick, but at the whole family, to alleviate the effects they have on the patients, and above all in order to improve the quality of life, since they are chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u101	Mrs Garrido, as I have already told you, these diseases have a great degree of peculiarity and difficulty. For many years this disease has been known, understood, and received. We're aware of that. For this reason we have directed and encouraged the actions which I have above alluded to. I agree with you that we will continue to pay attention, but I also agree, believe me, that it is very important not to segregate patients for the type of disease. And what happens, unfortunately, with patients affected by syndromes related to fibromyalgia and central sensitisation syndrome is no different in Euskadi than in the rest of health systems: with diseases that have an unknown etiology and that do not have a definitive diagnostic test through an analysis, through a genetic test, through a radiological test, or through a biopsy, it always happens that the diagnosis is later. Not always by insisting on training, better results are achieved. Sometimes people get tired. We practically do not train in breast cancer, which only affects women, and yet the results we have with professionals are frankly good. And no one would say that because breast cancer only affects women, in an organization like Osakidetza, where 85% of the people who work are women, we care for them worse. And let me tell you that it would not seem acceptable to me. Training is one of the most demanding aspects of the associations of the persons concerned. That is why, as I have already said, Osakidetza has resorted to a group of experts in this field who could design and develop training activities. In the training sessions for professionals, which, as I said, is one of our main activities, extensive information and documentation has been disseminated. And I would like to recall that the information we have disseminated has been the latest diagnostic criteria for the fibromyalgia of the American College of Rheumatology; the fibromyalgia protocol published by the Ministry of Health, Social Policy and Equality; the current international consensus criteria on the diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome; the consensus document of multiple chemical sensitivity, also of the Ministry of Health, Social Policy and Equality, which has also paid attention to these diseases; the latest bibliography on pain etiopathogeny, as well as different information also to patients on the services and location of associations of those affected by these syndromes, both in Álava and Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa. We are aware that courses with patients have had great acceptance, and we continue to receive applications to attend the courses. In addition, I repeat, we maintain and will keep open the channels of communication and collaboration with the associations of people affected, with the aim of improving the quality of life of these patients. Next week will be World Fibromyalgia Day and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, but, I insist, for us it is important, in those diseases that do not have a clear diagnosis and that also have a derivative, a component of need for treatment and also psychological support, it is important not to segregate patients, and give them a concept of normality within the health system. It is also important for us to highlight that in patient training sessions a randomized clinical trial has been conducted, where 309 patients have participated specifically, which we are waiting to be able to analyze the results. We will especially assess the incidence and results of the interventions that Osakidetza has made, and we hope that they will be available throughout 2018. In short, Mrs Garrido, she's done a lot of work and we're working on this subject. Great progress has been made, and I want to insist on it: though it be a complex disease, the diagnosis, treatment, and endurance are becoming more and more perfect. We've opened the information and documentation between the professionals, we've also given the patients the formation and contact with the members of the damaged patients and the means of interaction are open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is that the parliamentary members of Carmélo Barrio Barroja Popula team had made to Cultura and the Chief of Policy Language, on the rating of the international variation of the Central Cultural Center." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u103	Thank you, President. On September 11, 2015, just over a year and a half ago, the International Center for Contemporary Culture Tabakalera was inaugurated, and the object is what we all know: to promote contemporary cultural creation in different fields and in all its phases (research, production, exhibition...), and to continue in the knowledge of culture and art and certain creative expressions. Good. As we have known through journalistic information, a report requires more exchange of information, more internal and external communication, more security, monitoring of facilities, more flexibility on the part of management, more coherence between different programming... And these are some of those identified as conclusions, recommendations of that report prepared, which analyzes the so-called ecosystem claims that make up public and private cultural entities around Tabakalera, and these strategic changes in its functioning. That report is there, we have also asked that we be sent to the parliamentary groups, to the Committee on Culture, but in any case you, Mr Councillor, are the chairman of the Board of Directors of Tabakalera, and we would like you to give us information and to make an assessment in relation to that series of recommendations or conclusions (some of them identify a need for much improvement in relations with the ecosystem, but above all the functioning of Tabakalera itself), and to tell us what you are doing, how you value it, and what you are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u105	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, Mr. Barri. Tabakalera is a large building, a large T, a large container that hosts within it cultural activities and institutions of different tenor. It is also an installation with expectations of becoming a new urban avenue that improves the urban planning of Donostia and facilitates communication and habitability in the city. This new community of creative neighbors that has emerged within the old factory, its managers and tenants, like to call it an ecosystem. It brings together institutions such as the San Sebastián Film Festival (Zinemaldia), the Etxepare Institute, the Basque Film Library, the cultural space of the Kutxa (Kultur Kutxa), or Zineuskadi. They also operate from there different private initiatives, such as Impact Hub Donostia, Basque Living (a space promoted by the Basque furniture and equipment cluster), the Sekadero (a space dedicated to organizing workshops and performances), Nana (initiative of professional services of art, design and cultural management), Arteuparte Studio, or Lantoki. All of them have their own culture and organization and have started a new phase in a new location, and must develop their mission in a new and different environment for them. Above all these are Tabakalera's own cultural project, promoted by the centre itself, aimed at promoting contemporary creation and culture in Euskadi, in which we are involved the Donostia City Council, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation and the Basque Government. And as a big container of all these initiatives is the Tabakalera building itself, a community of neighbors made up of the institutions and initiatives I have mentioned, which has also become a great public square that the citizens of the Donostia have made their own and attracts thousands of Basque visitors and tourists who visit us. In it there are activities related to cultural creation, exhibitions of artistic and audiovisual works, processes and creative spaces, a seed shop of creative companies, workshops, libraries, concerts, cinema, dance classes, theatre..., and the building itself as a space of leisure and visit. Tabakalera opened its doors coinciding with the cultural capitality of Donostia, an event that flooded the spaces of Tabakalera, without time or tranquility enough to address the demands that its launch imposed. In that regard, I believe that the work done by the management and technical team working in Tabakalera was commendable. At the end of the year of the capital, the bodies that lead and control Tabakalera have launched a process of reflection and analysis that is incumbent on their teams and on all the public and private institutions that the building hosts. Its objective is to identify the strengths of the project, the dysfunctions that may be occurring, and identify the improvements that need to be adopted in a new scenario without the pressure of capitality. The report you are quoting is not a fallen report from heaven, nor a document of censure. It is a reflection document driven by the management team itself, which highlights some strengths that intuit and declare both the managers of the building and the different institutions that inhabit it. It was considered appropriate to analyze the coexistence of the different brands that make up Tabakalera. It also agreed on the desirability of improving aspects related to the communication of the multiple activities being carried out in that area. This is a process of reflection and improvement that every institution must consider. It is not yet completed, and it will have to lead us to make the precise adjustments to consolidate the Tabakalera project and improve the satisfaction and expectations of its tenants, users and visitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u107	Thank you, President. Indeed, well, yes it is true, I have read that in the press, and the report, and also the 2016 report, and that is why it drew attention to the fact that a process that has already been launched does so with that level of issues still to be tied up. For example, within what the 2016 Memory is, we talk about five important steps. Man, the first is the end of the play, it's very clear that that has to be so. It had been inaugurated by the end of 2015, but the end of the work throughout 2016. But then there was the cultural project, and in the cultural project this report denotes: more need for coherence, there is coincidence with incompatible activities, difficulties of programming of single agenda... That is in the report, within what the ecosystem is. We speak (as you have rightly said, and mentioned the members of the ecosystem) of "the set of projects that we live with" – says the memory – "in Tabakalera, that we make up the cultural ecosystem"..., the discontent, apparently, difficulties to negotiate with the center... That is to say, these are issues that appear in that report, which we have been able to detect. The fourth of the important points in memory spoke of the public, of the public. Tabakalera has proven to be a place for all audiences. Well, in relation to the public, difficulties have also been identified in that report (which we do not know, but which we have referred to through the media) in differentiating the different external activities. That has been said in the report itself. And there are even some issues that affect security, even some issues that affect normal logistics and normal development, that have to do with the restaurant, that have to do with the cafeteria, that are still in a phase, at some points, of complications. And there is another question, and it is the fifth question that the memory of 2016, which are the five fundamental elements: end of the work, ecosystem, cultural project, public..., and communication and positioning. The Tabakalera brand has been strengthened this year, the memory says, but, in any case, it says the report "need for more fluid communication with the institutions of the Tabakalera ecosystem". It is clear, Mr. Counsellor, that Tabakalera still has a very important journey to walk...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interliberation, Find Casanova Alonso ARRRRGDS to the Chief of Work and Justice, an examination of EAE's work and collective negotiations about plans and proposals." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u109	Good morning, everyone. The situation of collective bargaining in the Basque Autonomous Community is indeed serious. In recent weeks we have had the opportunity to hear the appearance of the main socio-economic actors, including the main trade unions in this country, in this very Parliament, in the Committee on Labour and Justice, and in these appearances have been prolific in their qualifications and in the description of the crudeness of the reality of collective bargaining today in our community. Among other adjectives, they have used blocking, paralyzed, agonizing, dead, desolating situation, et cetera, et cetera. Let us move from the adjective to the objective, that is, from the description to the actual data on which these qualifications are based, and here we can see that more than 60% of the citizens of this country who are employed today do not have an existing agreement protecting their labour and wage rights. Even the Labour Relations Council has raised this figure to 74%. 74% of the workers in this country at the moment would have their agreements well fallen, well subject to an ultraactivity that today, as we will mention below, lacks legal coverage. Of 115 conventions, 18 are up-to-date, 56 are decaying, and 41 are subject to that unarmored ultraactivity to which he referred. And from this situation in collective bargaining, logically, what we can infer is that working conditions are going to deteriorate, and indeed it has been in recent years. The conditions of work are becoming less and less severe, the preventive has hit our work. Today a quarter of Esscal's employee has a temporary contract. From all the contracts which are signed at the present day, 2,7% are the infinite contracts and the whole day is affected by them. Eroscal workers are losing their rights in a very serious way. Today the euscal workers are 5% poorer than six years ago, which hasn't been inflation, and we know that the inflation will begin to rise. Behind that discourse of recovery, so repeated machaconically by the propaganda apparatus of the respective governments, what we find is that the salaried population is becoming poorer. If we measure the evolution of the economy according to how GDP is going or how Amancio Ortega's profit and loss account is going, the economy is doing well. If we measure the economy according to how the salaries of each of the people who make up the working class of this country go, the economy goes wrong. Most are becoming poorer, they are losing purchasing capacity. Do you remember the times when talking about myleurism was referring to those people who were on the edge of society's marginality? Today with a thousand euros you cannot live either, as you could not live with dignity and with an approach to the future ten years ago, but it is no longer marginal, at least in quantitative terms, because 25% of the wage earners in this country charge less than a thousand euros. Moreover, 50% charge less than €1,500 per month. That is the reality that hides behind some headlines with which some advertise one day yes and another also. And there are reasons for collective bargaining to be paralyzed. Of course there are reasons. There are two. First, that the employer has the legal instruments to block collective bargaining. Secondly, the employer has the subjective will to use those instruments with which it expects to effectively establish the block on collective bargaining. This is possible because successive governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party have placed these instruments in the hands of the employer. Fundamentally, all trade unions have emphasized something that is already known, and it is that the loss of ultraactivity of the conventions puts fundamental instruments in the hands of the employers to put their feet up and completely paralyze collective bargaining, as is happening. It is enough for the employer to sit at the table and do nothing, to wait for them to prescribe the agreements, then to be able to unilaterally implement the working conditions that they determine. And this is one thing which has been imposed upon this people, and this is improper of all points of view. The ethical point of view is improper because it is an incommenced, because Madrid has been introduced into an anti-democratic form. It is polytically improper, because this temporal policy is not compatible with the desires of the Social Majority of this people. And besides, technically, technically, it's very inappropriate because this goal is not a coincidence, this is done for a specific reason. When the Government implements labour reform, it does so precisely to make what is happening happen, to block and destroy collective bargaining, and to lower wages. Internal devaluation calls it. A commitment to competitiveness through cost reduction, based solely on wage reduction. It is a conscious and premeditated strategy, and it is a strategy that clashs frontally with the model we say theoretically defend I believe that most of the political parties represented in this House, which is a socio-economic model, the very one, the model of this country, based on an advanced industry, with a high technological level and with a skilled and well-paid workforce. We are paying the consequences of political subordination to Madrid, the workers, and also our productive model. It takes place in the Basque Country from the regulating of business, while the Euscalian forces the art of working. This is the only way, to re-establish a collective negotiation here, to create a decent employment, as you, Signora chief physician, used the termology you have just mentioned: "Exepleo decente." We need decent employment, stable employment, well-paid employment and rights-based employment. And we need to recover a collective negotiation that gives rise to that reality that today is a lost reality. We need to recover rights-based labour relations, fair and balanced collective bargaining, respect for trade union majorities, and the fight against precariousness. Nos gustaría decir que ante este deterioro progressivo de las condiciones laborares de la mayoría la laborora de este país el Gobierno ha jugado un pagado un papel deservado. We have often accused this government of coming to see us, because there is no government on the other side, we have often told you that you are doing the notary, that you limit your mind to the testimony of reality, and that you do not fulfil your duty, that you do not participate in it, and that you do not fulfil your role. Unfortunately, we can't say here that you've done the notary, fortunately, because you don't know how to place yourself in the service, unfortunately you've participated in it and, unfortunately, you've taken part in the side that doesn't have a reason for it. Luckily, the government has been an active agent within the scope of his work purposes, but in this world of work there has been an active agent for the will of the patrician. The Basque Government has been an active agent in this process of precarizing the working conditions of the salaried majority of this country, and of breaking and blocking collective bargaining. The Government has expressly aligned itself in favour of the employer's thesis, and has consistently supported each and every one of its decisions, statements and actions. A employer who publicly blesses the government agreement between the PNV and the PSOE, which blesses the PNV pact with the PP for budgets, which supports the budgetary pacts in the Basque Autonomous Community between the PP and PNV, which refuses to face a rise in labour, which denies and blocks the possibility of a tax reform. A employer that has paralysed collective bargaining, a employer that neither from this Government nor from the previous one has ever been publicly criticized. Meanwhile, we have a government facing the majority unions in this country, with very harsh disqualifications, a government that refuses even to meet, in the person of both its lehendakari and some of its advisers, with some of the most important unions in this country; we have a government that makes the wave to the employer, that allows it to do and say everything, and that ultimately is subject to its interests. And in the work world, unfortunately, that's the way it is. You're not neutral, you've come out to the game with Confebask's T-shirt, and you've also played the same role as Confebask when you've been models and you're models. The New Year's Leader is just the same as Confebas used to play the role of the Confebas. We're always on the side of the patriarchal strike, the way we're seeing it in the Biscay mansions, and so on and on and on and on. Gustatuko litzaiguke isatea I expect dugula Gobernua aldatzea, but really, I will be honest with you, I do not expect any change from this government. I don't expect them to change. If Mr Azpiazu has not been able to carry out his proposal for tax reform because the employer has already told him in advance that there is no guardianship, I believe that this government, if it is not due to strong social, political and trade union pressure, will not change sides, will not defend the interests of the majority of this country, and will continue to subordinate to Confebask...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Casanova, I agree with you on one of the issues you have raised, both in the justification of your inquiry and in the intervention we have just heard. Above all, I share the concern about the present and future of collective bargaining in Euskadi. I think that the economic crisis triggered in 2008 is having an impact on the social and political sphere that is conditioning the social welfare system that had developed in Europe in the last decades of the twentieth century. I am of the opinion that these consequences stem from certain decisions of a political nature taken by the European institutions, with the known social repercussions, which have not lived up to what some and some of us think. The crisis has brought with it a destruction of employment that we have not known for decades in our environment, which has led to an increase in inequalities, endangering balance and social integration. Wrong decisions at state and European level have caused workers to have lost part of their working conditions. In order to escape the loss of employment, austerity and the reduction of rights have been chosen, which, among other things, has directly affected employment, wages and the core of collective bargaining. I have to say, Mr Casanova, that collective bargaining is a matter involving social partners, representatives of workers and employers. It is they who are responsible for it to be carried out and to have its fruits. In other words, collective bargaining is based on the autonomy of the parties. Governments, as is our case, can help to push it forward and for the parties to agree. It is at this point where we can and will commit, as I will explain later. In his question, he urges me to carry out an analysis of collective bargaining in Euskadi, and I will try to do so below. As I have already acknowledged, the crisis and the decisions taken to deal with it have led to a substantial change in the model of labour relations that we had in the State and in Euskadi. The most important thing is that it has been blocked, and that it has radically changed its meaning. We have moved from the broader areas of negotiation, sectoral and territorial, to favouring the business environment as a place of negotiation. This has an irreparable consequence, as is that the workers of the small and micro-enterprises in our business network are the most affected. The halting of collective bargaining has also led to the collapse of many agreements affecting thousands of workers, and thousands of others are still in negotiations. For various reasons, sectoral and provincial and autonomous agreements have been the most affected. From my point of view, without demerging the agreements that are signed in the company, universality in improvements is achieved in the broader negotiating frameworks. I would point out to you, Mr Casanova, that this situation is not solely the result of the decisions of the Spanish Government or of the danger of the stateization of the agreements, but also of the attitude of certain social actors operating in the Basque area, of their lack of involvement in promoting negotiation processes in the areas that can benefit all workers most. I will agree with you once again on the importance, which in your explanation of the question, of the agreement signed on 17 January between the business organisation and the four most representative trade unions in Euskadi, in order to make the agreements that are signed autonomously prevail over the state agreements. Although, as I said earlier, the Government is not part of collective bargaining, we look forward to that agreement. It has been a few weeks since its signature, and I can tell you that, according to data from the Euskadi Labour Relations Council, we are moving forward in the direction of increasing the number of workers who have the coverage of an agreement to improve and ensure their working conditions. At 31 March this year there were 160,298 workers with agreements of ordinary effect in the year, almost 30,000 more than at the end of 2016. To put it another way, in the first months of this year there is an activity of agreement in conventions that had not been manifested in previous ones. On the contrary, the number of persons with expired or pending agreements has fallen. The number of persons admitted to the convention has hardly changed, but what is highlighted is that there are recovered and renewed agreements, which denotes a reactivation of the negotiating capacity by the social partners. Reason for optimism? I think so, as long as we move forward on the path of negotiation and social dialogue. I was also wondering about the measures and initiatives that we are going to articulate from the Basque Government, and specifically from the Department of Labour and Justice, to promote collective bargaining. As I have said, the Government is not part of the negotiation, but we can help in two ways. One, establishing channels of dialogue between social actors. In this regard, we believe that it is of the utmost importance to enhance the role of the Euskadi Labour Relations Council, a bipartisan body suitable for promoting collective bargaining. For our part, we remain committed to the institutionalization of social dialogue in our Autonomous Community. As I have already communicated in this House, from the minute one has taken office, I have met with the leadership of the four most representative trade unions in Euskadi and with Confebask. I have listened to everyone, and I have moved, among other things, the importance of the Social Dialogue Bureau being in that area, and of preparing the way for a positive impact on the collective bargaining that social actors, of course, have to carry out. We want to convene that table, and to involve all the people involved in it. Another way to find this exit is through the measures that we can promote as a government to fight against job insecurity in a broad sense. The fight against precariousness is a tool for intensifying negotiations between the social partners. As you know, Mr Casanova, it is a firm decision of the department that directs the fight against labour fraud. We have already launched a campaign to review temporary and "part-time" contracts, and we are also about to launch the mailbox against labour fraud, to make it easier for all workers to complain about labour irregularities. It is the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Justice to ensure that existing and ongoing work in Euskadi is of high quality. As you have heard at the beginning of the plenary session, quality work is synonymous with safe work for us. We call on employers and trade union organisations to incorporate elements of improved working conditions into collective bargaining, as a factor linked to better protection of health and safety, and that the agreements reached in it also apply to small and micro-enterprises in our business fabric, which, as you know, employ the largest number of people. In this regard, the autonomous body with tripartite participation Osalan is involved in improving information, training and inspection in the field of occupational safety and health. We are convinced that Osalan is an important tool for encouraging the participation of workers in workplaces through their training in occupational risk prevention. We will strengthen this type of training through its reflection in collective agreements. Another line of work of the Department of Labour and Justice, which I consider essential to promote collective bargaining, is the fight against discrimination and bad practices in the work environment of any kind. In short, Mr Casanova, my analysis of the situation of collective bargaining in Euskadi is that it must be improved, and I can do so because we have those tools to be able to do so. The intention of the Department of Labour and Justice is to promote, with all these instruments within our reach, their development, and our proposal is for the social partners to open up to it and reach agreements that will improve the working conditions of all workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u112	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u113	Bai. EH Bildu effectively defends the existence of companies and entrepreneurs, as it cannot be otherwise. And it agrees not only with its existence, but with providing the instruments that public institutions can make available to it to improve in certain aspects, to improve the functioning of companies, to improve their competitiveness and efficiency. Indeed, we against the company and the entrepreneur have nothing. The average number of workers in a Basque company in this country is 4.8 workers per company. We are talking about a productive fabric based primarily on SMEs, small businesses, even micro-enterprises. But it is true that those who carry the singing voice and who appear before society as the highest representative of all that diverse conglomerate that is the world of the company are certain associations, which today are playing a very determined role. If companies create decent work and agree to pay fair taxes, go ahead. What cannot be done is that the representatives of the business world today, through their associations, or through their main association, which is Confebask, are playing a lobbying role in the service of the interests not of the companies, but of the particular interests of some entrepreneurs. And in that lobbying role is where they seem to have the full support of the government we have. Because you say that, of course, collective bargaining is the responsibility of the social partners. Sure! I don't ask you to sign the agreements! But there are some social actors on the part of this government who are mercilessly criticized, frontally, and these social actors are, incidentally, some trade unions. And yet, the employer is told nothing, absolutely never, do what she does. And that can be for two reasons: either because you agree, or because you are afraid or subject to that employer. And I would like the government, with the same force that raises the voice, because at the end of the day I cannot say what the government has to think or wants to think... Well, they're free to do it. But if it has legitimacy and believes in the need to criticize the unions... the employer, why not? When the employer tells them, for example, "We are not in favour of raising wages in a general way", "We are not going to accept the approach of taking away the labor reform", or vetoing a tax reform, there is nothing to say to the employer? I have been left with the doubt, because, when you said that there are some social actors who are responsible for collective bargaining and who are not fulfilling their role, I would have liked it to end the sentence, because that is how we were all clear and we would know, according to the Basque Government's reading, which are those agents who are currently an obstacle. I would like you to verbalize it, to express it clearly, and, in such a case, to say what the Government wants to do. But besides, it's not enough to say that the unions and social operatings are signed by the unions and the patricians. Of course, of course. But you've got a piece of paper, too. For example, when you support the agreements signed in the minority, you are an active agent. And you're an active agent who's interested in someone to spell it out. And you favor the patrician when you give the terms signed in the minority a green light when you don't have contact with the unions and when you're in all the actions of the patricians, you participate. When the Urcullu says that the only people who are here are in reality are the government and corporations and that some unions are out of reality. And when you're employers, do you look like an example or copy the worst ways of the patriarchal, mimeically? In this town, the principal employer is the Administration, and the biggest company, the Osacombs. And the biggest possible company in the world is Osar: One third works at the prevarication at Osa. So when it's all your business, you don't play the part you're supposed to have, but you imitate the form of the patrician in front of the stability. And it is not a question of being a patriot or not being a patriot, that is objective, if the euscal workers depend on the convictions of the state, objective conditions will be lighter, I don't mind being independent or being a Spaniard. Lower wages and work conditions are worse. Is this aurrean zein statalization of the paper zeen? Zuek –a very young lehen, itxaropen gutxi neukala – gaizki asi zarete, eta, beno, zauen tonuan eta zuen hitzetatik musika politica ondorioztatu daiteke, passa pasa de un legealdian aibide aberra eduki genuen. Zure predezesorea edo..., I don't know how to define, after what you've done with the division into departments, but Mr. Angel Toña passed the legislature saying nice things. Pretty things, which then didn't work out. So what I would like is, firstly, for you to start making a speech in defence of the interests of the majority of this country, and secondly, for that speech to be put into practice. But, of course, I would also have to address this part of the bench that right now had more important things to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u115	Mr. Casanova, I have not come here to talk to you about what others say and do. I have come here to tell you what my Department of Labour and Justice is doing and is working, and with a view to quality at work. So, to improve the working conditions of all kinds of our workers is a bet from my department, and we want to alleviate, acting with the skills we have, the effects of decisions that we do not share, such as austerity policies, labour reform or collective bargaining reform. As I said in my first speech, the agreements signed at the sectoral and territorial level, at the provincial or autonomous level, are, in my view, the best ones to ensure that these conditions are improved. But I will tell you something else: I believe that a model of labour relations, therefore of collective bargaining and social dialogue, with specific characteristics at the level of our Autonomous Community, is possible. I tell you with all sincerity, and based on the tools that we have at the level of Euskadi and that we need to consolidate, use them and make them effective. One of them is the Basque Council for Labour Relations, a body for meeting and permanent dialogue which, created and maintained by the public authorities, can and should facilitate bipartite dialogue between trade union and business organisations. In addition, in this case it is a body in which all representative organizations participate, which have been mutually recognized as legitimate spokespersons of the collectives they represent and capacity to reach agreements. To the last of them, the one signed on 17 January, we have referred, and we have given it the importance it deserves. But we also have other entities of participation and dialogue with a tripartite dimension, such as Osalan or Lanbide, which can serve perfectly to weave the framework that allows us to conclude with effective achievements in collective bargaining. I believe that the two levels that I have described to you, shared by all and well used, would be able to establish a framework of Basque labour relations that would make it possible to give it a qualitative and specific character. We therefore have the meeting places and a basic agreement to start working, so we have members to achieve the objective, that in Euskadi every worker can benefit from an agreement signed in this community. I am aware of the difficulties and reluctance of some of the main actors to carry out this work, but for our part we will not fail to insist and encourage the opening up of these avenues of conciliation. Frankly, I believe that what is needed is to strengthen the will to agree and get to work on it. This last reflection immediately leads me to touch on another aspect of which you echoed in your intervention and in the reply, such as the danger of statehood or progressive invasion of state agreements in the Basque field of labour relations. The stateization of collective agreements that is taking place is not only the cause of collective bargaining reform; I would say even more: it is not the main cause. From the data of the Labour Relations Council over the past eight or nine years it is easy to deduce that the lack of collective bargaining in Euskadi has been a habitual fact, the consequence of which has been the decline of many sectoral collective agreements in the Basque area, whether provincial or autonomous, and in many cases the state-level agreements have become the only reference and coverage of workers in Euskadi. Therefore, if we assume that it is important and beneficial for every worker to be covered by an agreement, what must be made possible is for the agreements to be signed in Euskadi. On the other hand, it should be remembered that the interconfederal agreement signed by the social partners on 17 January could have been signed well in advance. The agreement was possible in the year 2012 first, and in the year 2014 later, but, as you well know, the refusal of one of the social partners to sign it at that time made it impossible for the collective bargaining of the Basque sector to be shielded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
