ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Parliament of the Union, Larazitz Ugarte Bridgeriala, concerning PP." "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the General Preservations of the State." Group proposer. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u1	Good morning, Mrs. President. Partners, good morning. Partners. Well, we had a couple of weeks ago one of those four-and-a-half heads around the Spanish antiques, about the agreement that EAJ and Poplar had made. And I had been much focused on this interpenetration, because it seems important to me that the Spanish Government is now supported, who is in this government, and who has political criteria, what sort of corruption is splashed with a corruption. It seemed important to me to talk about it. And it seemed to me as important as that to know whether or not the bullet that reflected on that agreement was rejected, that is to say, what EAJ achieved by that agreement. So, three times, we talked about two spikes of a triangle, and today I want to reach the third apex. And the third peak is what it is that has been acknowledged, what it is to protect, what EAJ has given to Popular Party. That is to say, the General Spanish Presidency, the General Spanish Presidency for this event, because I believe that the Basque Society must know what these General Spanish Preservities are, what their main games are, and what they will suppose. I have read that in some measure we shall repeat the discussion of the Congress of Spain here, and in a great measure I must give reason to the journalist who writes it, and to the politician who says so. It is true, unfortunately, that the general matters here decided in Spain have a great influence on us, because we are not a sovereign state, because we are not an independent state, and, unfortunately, the Spanish State manages so many elements which are indispensable in daily life: I believe that the whole system of pensions and Social Security, almost most of the departmental aspect, and so on, and consequently on account of the influence of it, is important here and there for EFG to treat this subject. We've tried a couple of times to propose this discussion through monographics. It is not, unfortunately, this discussion, because the table did not allow this discussion, and by means of this motive we wish to give this discussion. In fact, we weren't even Spanish Precerns, who have been here in the middle of the discussion, and it was EAJ, who, by this agreement in Spain, put these in a political book today's budget. And I'd like to take advantage of a conversation in the Gara on Sunday in the paper which Andoni Orzak said to bring me some of my reflections or the Chamber. And in general he said that the skeletons of all the budgets are the same, that the budgets are, in some measure, exactly the same, in order to dehymaticate the position of EAJ's attitude to the affairs of Spain, as it were, of what a match is in the Government, it is no matter what the criterion of that which governs it is, and how ideology, budgets, are more or less the same. And I want to tell Andoni Orzarri and I'd like to tell you all, and above all I want to say to the company of euccany that it's not the same. It's not the same. It's not the same as the budget policy for a right-hand government. It's not a stylish document. These are quite political documents, I dare say, some of the most important documents composed of different political decisions for an institution, so that we cannot say that some of the budgets of the Potion Party are equal, or some water. I think also that there is a remarkable pattern; while his left hand firmly believes in the public sector, while the left wishes a strong public sector, his right hand does not require that, with his neoliberal example, he does not wish to satisfy the wants of the public, he is not his political privilege. The political privilege of the right is not to have a powerful health system, because the rich do not appeal to public doctors, if they have private doctors, they have private schools to guarantee their welfare by parallel systems. We who need the public system are working class. And to think of these working classes, it takes a strong public sector, which is the obsession with the left, or it should be the obsession of the left. The right ones are the opposite. And we're just watching EAE gradually, in the state, that protective system, that public system, which is gradually deactivating. And I'd like to give some examples, because I've had to take some budgets myself for four years, and I'd like to say that this budget is a complete sum of political decisions. It's not the same thing, when RedMork made the demands of RGI to cut down and save money at RGI's expense, and when he asked for the census to go up one year after three years, he decided to stay in the street for three years at Gipulia. That's what Collect did. Others didn't do it, so the system isn't the same. It's not like paying extra pay to public officials, as it was done in the Aldduria of Gipu, or a salary ward, when Spain decided that there couldn't be a salary garrison, because of Ley de Stairbilidad Presupusari. It's not the same. It's not the same as playing for service publication, or, like the SOS Calls, for the purpose of making prevarications instead of doing so, the total preparation of the workers and the approval of the solos in Spain. It's not the same with the Gipuese Underp and all that chocolate that's in Biscay when the workers are on strike for over a year. Or it is not the same with that of the law of Decidents, it is not by chance that the country in which the laws of the Spanish Decidents are developed should be of Gipus. It is not the same, so let no one say that these skeletons are the same. It's not the same as the collection, because we don't propose the same attorney system, and during these days Popular Party has made it clear that there can't be any progressive reforms here. We must leave it at the rate of social taxes, so that the profits of the societate and the profits may no longer be governed by means of escape, so that there may be deductions. The Amnesty prosecutor and the Indullian Party tend to act, and they are also an obsession with the right, that is to say, the means and some protection for those who cheat the prosecutor. The bet in favour of not being abused by large fortunes is also remarkable, by abolishing the taxes on the estate, and preserving, for instance, that paralysing paradise in the Community of Madrid. So, I think we're not in agreement and modeling on the state model and the collections, which are very important. It's the same as it is in the politics of the owen. There is a standard in the politics of the ower, because if we had a powerful, progressive, effective system, if everything were not built on the VAT and indifferent taxes and built on the workers' income, and if we had a really progressive system, then even the sub-tender policies would be smaller. And in this anxiety which Spain has had, in some measure, to advance and advance, and to invest in subjugates, it has produced consequences. And to-day, the consequence is that the General Spanish Preservations are intended to have their 27% of their own, that is, more than their quarter, to cover the public defense. That is to say, to pay the debt, to pay the banks, and to pay the interests of Spain more than the quarter of his predecessors. And this is what people need to know, seven points more than in 2011. We don't say "thank you" is a bad thing. It is necessary to do what ought to be done, when there is more resources to be needed, but the management and management of these resources cannot be what is now. I shall give some facts about the Spanish precedents, and about the social condition of Spain: One of the non-workers receives no preparation in the state, 4% of the families has no income, almost a 30% poverty rate, 14% of the workers of the work, which is most significant in the case of the year 18% of the year. And among the younger ones, no more than 40%, compared with their area almost double. In time, however, it is not only work, but in the quality of this employment, we are talking about temporality at 85%, among the young. Is it possible that this EAE has been influenced by those temporal reforms? There are, indeed, some striking influence, for the purchase power of the workers has been reduced to four points during the last few years, and 360.000 workers have remained without agreement because they have limited the conditions of a collective negotiation. Excuse me, one thing: It was a motion presentation 15 minutes, wasn't it? You've given me 10 minutes and I'm five, that's why.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u2	It's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u3	Oh, that's exactly where he put it when it was 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u4	It's 10. You need 15?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u5	Yes, yes. I need them. I'll do it a little fast, but I need the five more. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u6	Yeah. But from now on, to let the people know that when two shifts are Acimulated or two together, it was decided that there would be ten minutes at the Board of Boxers, unless it were required that there should be more in it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u7	All right, he put 15 in his little book, and that's why, isn't it? Okay. Thank you. Around the pensions, to continue with this dramatic portrait. More than half of them, more than half of pensions are below 700 euros, and not even in women. And in the next 20 years, 20 percent will be lost in the supply of pensions. In the same conversation, there was mention of the "Gara" in the dialogue I had just mentioned, there was a proposal to plan for climbing 2%. A two-way, very simple climb around the pensions, and EAJ said he was obliged to vote. Public workers' wages, congregated from 2009 and 1,6% of personal expense. Of other social expense than pensions: 19,000 million down, that's a '27% descent. 27% of the social expense that leads to the payment of the debt, and it's below three points of the area. These facts are facts, but I think they are very significant, what models, what formulations, and what popular plans the Popular Party has adopted in Spain and the presidency of the Poptular Party in Spain. What's the cost? To two main elements: one to the defence, that is to say, the army, the army, the army, the military, TAN, the whole; and the other to the undergrowths, to the gigantic infrastructure, to the gigantic substructures such as the eusscal "Y" Esscal, I am no longer tired of saying that to these substructures of doubtful use, and the data of Spain is eucinated in that sense. What does this have to do with it? Well, it has a remarkable influence on the Basque Country, as I said before. It has a remarkable influence on the social field, because our pensions diminish, because our widows, our retired ones, have no decent pensions. And besides, these pensions are Spanish tranquilizers. They're Spanish. And the degree of life is not the same in Andalucia or in the Basque Country as we all know. As we all know, life here is more expensive and it's more necessary to live here. And in this sense, this occupation only hurts us, and if it does harm in the whole Spanish geography, there is nothing to say about it in the three provinces of the EAE. But that's not the point. The theme does not only stop at the social aspect. The question is not only because our workmen have not the capacity of negotiation, because they have limited this capacity of negotiation, and have not the ability to negotiate their wages, because they have not the ability to negotiate their conditions, because many have been deprived of compacts, and their salaries have been greatly diminished. I'd lead the first example of residuation, and if there hadn't been any money in the Gipuese mob to put an end to this conflict, a worker who would now be working in a Gipucia security would have had a pay-party of 1,100 euros. And so in all sectors, all the sectors where the convictions can't be armored. And this, as far as the social aspect is concerned, is also present and evident in the political explanation of these matters: the one that belongs to the peace. It is clear that the Popular Party has no proposal to bring this people to a peace and normalization station. It is only to see the last circular of the Spanish State, and the expression of Zodo, that the revenge policy is intended to maintain penance, and that it has no proposition to carry this people to a peace station, as it has no intention of giving Catalonia a democratic solution, as it does not intend to give a democratic solution to Catalonia, in order to give a democratic solution to an independent process which may be opened in the Basque Country. LAMCE, a thousand things; a thousand things which make it clear that there is an alternative, that the alternative passes through Spain, because in these days Mr. Urcullu said there was no alternative, that there was no alternative, that there was a PSOE desincedual or a Popular Party; and I should say, that there is an alternative, that there is an alternative, that the EH Collector may be given to a constitution to a state of Spain, because it will give us real stability. To-day, and to-day, I think it's important to accept this motive, and by means of this motive and the Parliament to say to the Spanish State, the Spanish society, and above all to the society of the Basque Country, that the affairs of Spain are utterly criminal, and that the Eustés law don't protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u9	Good morning. To tell the truth, our parliamentary group has been trying for almost 24 hours to seek the support of the Socialist Party for this initiative, because we put forward a non-legislative proposal that what it intended was for this House to say clearly that the General Budgets of the State are bad for Euskadi and for the entire society of the State, and we understood that the Socialist Party should agree with this. But it seems that they have more burdened their governing pacts with the Basque Nationalist Party than they have clearly positioned themselves in the House with a group like ours, and they did not want to trade the initiative with us, even though we have – and I think they will have to – genuine efforts to be able to reach an agreement. But you preferred another photo, or it seemed to scare you to ruin the picture of the Basque Nationalist Party. You'll know. We only wanted today with this initiative to make it clear what we believe the majority of citizens in the Basque Country and also in the whole state: that these general budgets are the general budgets of the People's Party, the budgets of the cuts of the neoliberal right. The general budgets for 2017 presented by the People's Party Government again prioritize a drastic reduction in the public deficit over the remaining economic policy objectives, including job creation and quality. Spain, with the help of the People's Party government, has been the champion of fiscal and budgetary adjustment of the European Union over the past few years, the champion of cuts, which helps to understand, among other things, why it continues to maintain the second highest unemployment rate in the euro area. The Government of the People's Party has focused on reducing the public deficit by cutting, dismantling the public and devaluing working conditions. With these general budgets the Government of the State reaffirms this political priority, and who now supports them (the Basque Nationalist Party) is collaborating with its support for the consolidation of the consequences of the People's Party in recent years. Thanks to these policies, Spain is one of the European countries where inequalities have increased most from the start of the crisis, to being among the highest levels of inequality, poverty and social exclusion within the framework of the European Union. The inequality rate has remained stable in eurozone countries at around 30; in Spain, however, it has increased from 31 to 35 in recent years, one of the highest values in our environment. Spain is one of the countries of the European Union where inequality between the richest 20% and the poorest 20% is one of the highest, and continues to grow. Today, having a job in Spain is no longer a sufficient condition to escape poverty, since almost 15% of workers are in this situation, as a result of the strong precariousness and poor quality in employment. The erosion of this so-called welfare state by the policies of cuts in the State's consecutive general budgets explains this situation. Spain, according to the most recent Eurostat data, maintains a structural deficit with the eurozone, in social protection, close to 5% of GDP. Instead of reducing inequalities, eradicating poverty and social exclusion, these general State budgets are committed to reducing the public deficit at the cost of increasing the social deficit. Another year, the cuts are again produced with general budgets of the anti-social state, to which the People's Party has already accustomed us. The novelty with previous years will be the support of the Basque Nationalist Party for them. Something that denied the main party of the Basque Government until four days ago, accusing us, to whom we said this would end up being so, almost seeing ghosts. Well, the Basque Nationalist Party has not only ended up understanding the People's Party, as we have been saying, but has ended up being the oxygen bomb that Mariano Rajoy's Executive needed so much to resist at a time when, without a sufficient majority and devastated by the brutal corruption of his party, he could not have resisted much more. The general state budgets submitted for 2017 do not reverse any of the cuts made during the worst years of austerity. On the contrary, they are the budgets of the consolidation of all the cuts produced since the arrival of the People's Party to the Government. The general state budgets 2017 include significant cuts compared to the 2016 budgets in all areas. The only spending policy that is significantly increased in these countries has been Defence, which is already up 32% compared to 2011. In addition, there is a total absence of plans to promote sustainability and rapid reduction of pollutant emissions: the pollution prevention and action programme against climate change is one of the biggest cuts. The most worrying thing is that these cuts are made in basic public services (i.e. in the end in education, health, housing and many other issues), and they affect us as well. In terms of revenue, the general budgets of the People's Party are the result of one of the worst tax policies that Spain has experienced in a long time. In addition to undermining the State's revenue collection capacity and thus the capacity to finance basic public services, the People's Party's tax policy has generated a more unjust and much less progressive tax structure. The share of tax revenues has been regressively changed, increasing the share of indirect taxes and reducing the share of direct taxes. Taxation on capital has been reduced, and taxation on labour has been maintained: workers are increasingly paying more and they are paying less and less for capital, something that is happening in Euskadi and something that is happening throughout the State. As a result, employment incomes have been reduced in relation to GDP in the Basque Country in recent years as well. The consequences of all these decisions on the living conditions of most of the population throughout the State are dramatic, and supporting those budgets is supporting those decisions. Not only for those who propose these budgets, but those who approve them are being complicit in the consequences of these policies of the People's Party. The policy of extreme austerity has caused the per capita GDP to be still lower in 2017 in the state than it was a decade ago. While during the crisis countries such as Germany or France had a productivity that fell, yes, because production was falling, but work was continuing, in Spain it has grown due to the enormous and abnormal destruction of employment and its precariousness: the rate of temporaryity in January 2012 was 19%, and in the last quarter of 2016 it was 22%, and rising. The main source of productivity growth in the State is at the expense of women workers. These budgets are therefore going to bring more exploitation and more precariousness, without solving the serious problem of structural unemployment. In addition, the fall in public investment in the budgets, and in particular its territorial impact, is irresponsible: total investments for 2017 have been reduced by about 3 %; some decreases at the autonomous level reach 30 %, as in the case of Navarre, or 80 %, as in the case of Asturias. Supporting budgets is also complicit in these issues. The general state budgets, above all, perpetuate the social gap generated by fiscal austerity and wage devaluation policies, and avoid generating new paradigms of more inclusive, fairer and greener growth. The general budgets prevent the potential benefits of growth from being transferred to the social majority; on the contrary, they ensure that they remain in the hands of a few. Instead of reducing the public deficit by boosting growth, Mariano Rajoy, with the collaboration now of the PNV, proposes to freeze public spending again and address revenues by increasing inflation. That is true, without compensating for its effects on the most vulnerable groups: pensioners (also those of Euskadi), unemployed people (also those of Euskadi), dependents (also those of Euskadi), students, scholarships, etc., and, of course, also public employees, who will see how their wages again lose purchasing power. In a situation with more than 3.7 million unemployed people throughout the State, a coverage of only 56% and a long-term unemployment rate of more than 57%, the Government cuts spending on employment policies, weakens the role of public employment services, and forgets the need to improve the employability and inclusion of unemployed people. They prevent these budgets from closing the page of the cuts, perpetuating a situation of unjust inequality that affects millions of people who are denied a worthy future. And the Basque Nationalist Party is going to be an accomplice to this too. Millions of people who have to watch, however, every day on their televisions the parade of corruption, latrociny and plundering of public arks that is produced by corrupters and corrupters. Those who design these general state budgets belong to a party that is structurally affected by corruption and involved in hundreds of cases of corruption. And those who support them are complicit, at least, in keeping that party in power. In particular, we believe that we should remember in this House that the People's Party, despite not having a majority in the Congress of Deputies, maintains its re-centralizing policies and its conception of Spain denying a plurinational reality. Someone can also be an accomplice to this. We believe that it is not the time to support the People's Party in Madrid, but to take advantage of its parliamentary weakness to bring about changes also in a model of state, the emergence of the transition, which proves to be exhausted or useless, to solve the fundamental problems of people and peoples. We must reject from this Parliament budgets to serve the elites; budgets against the working class, against the pensioners, against the unemployed. Budgets that are built to achieve the deficit target by putting the scissors into social spending again, putting the scissors into wages, public jobs, pensions, as well as the quality of education, health and social services. Let us demand from this House the rejection of the general budgets of the State of the opposition forces in Congress, as they have sufficient majority to overthrow them and begin to reverse the policies of the People's Party. The pact by which the Basque Nationalist Party is going to support the budgets of the People's Party is infumable, because it means supporting corruption, it means supporting cuts and it also means supporting the position of the People's Party in Catalonia. One of the words most used to bless this covenant has been that of "stability". They have used it from the lehendakari, Iñigo Urkullu, to the president of the state government, Mariano Rajoy, passing through Erkoreka or Montoro. And I will give you the reason: it is true, this agreement gives stability. It gives stability to the corruption of the People's Party. It gives stability to the labour reform that has destroyed thousands of quality jobs in Euskadi and has replaced them with precariousness, temporaryity, exclusion of women from the world of work and the end of collective bargaining (all power for the employer). It gives stability to the reduction of pensions, which only in what we are going in the year has caused a loss of purchasing power of 3%. It gives stability to the lack of replacement of the civil servant, essential for the proper functioning of public services, such as education or Osakidetza. It gives stability to the reduction of the funding of the Unit Act, which is essential to ensure that people in Euskadi have quality care in situations of dependency and that such care does not continue to fall on women, as always. It also gives stability to LOMCE, a law that involves a return to a segregating and elitist system in education. It gives stability to the law gags, which cuts civil liberties in order to close the mouth to the protester, including hundreds of women and men unionists prosecuted. This is the stability that the Basque Nationalist Party is giving to the People's Party; stability that has consequences in Euskadi, however much the PNV intends to sell the goodness of the agreement. The PNV complains many times about the impositions of Madrid and Brussels, but then stands in the best support of its leaders. We understood that the Basque Nationalist Party was not going to support this proposal, but we understood that an agreement could be reached with the Basque Socialist Party, because they say they are against these general budgets. We have offered them an agreement, a good agreement, a good understanding. We have practically offered to sign your amendment. I invite you to do a didactic exercise. Anyone who wants, I then hand over the compromise amendment that I have given to the Socialist Party: it is practically, almost the same as the amendment that they proposed to us, in order to reach an agreement so that it can be seen in this House – and that was our only objective – something that we believe corresponds to the majority opinion of Basque citizens, and it is that this House, the Basque Parliament, said that the general budgets of the State are not good for people. The Socialist Party did not want to. He's had more pressure from the Basque Nationalist Party. You'll see. We, of course, are responsible and we have come to vote on what we wanted out of this House...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u10	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u11	...propose it as proposed and propose as proposed. That is, the general budgets of the People's Party state are bad for most people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u13	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, good morning to you all. The Basque Socialists have tabled an amendment to the whole which proposes, on the one hand, that the Basque Parliament reject the draft general state budgets, because these budgets consolidate the marked inequality during the years of crisis, because these budgets renounce the reversal of those reforms which have led to the impoverishment of a large part of the population, and because they also promote measures that do not guarantee quality in employment, nor the shielding of public services, nor social rights, and renounce a new economic model. The Socialist amendment also calls on the Basque Parliament to urge the Government of Spain to propose as soon as possible a new system of autonomous financing which, while respecting the singularities recognised to Euskadi and Navarra, guarantees to all autonomous communities the financing of all the public services of its competence, so as to guarantee equality and solidarity for all Spaniards and Spaniards in a shared and decentralized project. Today's debate is an opportunity to explain, as we have historically been defending socialists, the idea of a Spain in which we do not understand the progress of Euskadi without sharing it with the progress of Asturians, Andalusians, Catalans or Galicians, each community with its uniqueness, but with a shared goal of a common project. That is why we reject the general budgets of the State, because we believe that these budgets are detrimental to that common project, and we advocate a solidarity system that endorses the way in which we have decided to organize that plurality of the State. That is the idea that we Socialists propose in this debate, and we have proposed the amendment as an alternative to the proposal by Bildu and Podemos for consistency. Because on 28 April the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party registered a complete amendment to the draft law on general state budgets for 2017; it requested the return of these budgets to the Government. And, secondly, because – I am sorry to say this further – we have not come to believe that the interventions of the initiatives presented by Bildu and Podemos really seek the objectives set out. Bildu because he has finished his intervention by talking about sovereignty and independence, and We can because, given that offer of negotiation, the first thing he did was tell the press, and then he called us. And that is not the way to weave complicitys with the Basque Socialist Party. And we are not going to disregard that sign of concern now from the left abertzale towards the workers of other peoples of Spain (better that when they bring us initiatives that advocate abandoning that common project), although, having seen and heard what they heard in the previous inquiry made by Mrs Ugarte, and how their intervention ended today, because, finally, things do not go the way that the Socialists had wished. And rather it seems, as our partner Alexia Castelo said a couple of weeks ago, that Bildu intends to reproduce the debate here in Congress, because there they do not get enough echo, and in passing they deepen in that particular war that you maintain with another party, which is complemented by squabbles, banners and other kinds of regrettable acts. And as for the Elkarrekin initiative We can also fall into that replicating error, because, despite the fact that in the operative part it talks about the damage to the Basque Autonomous Community, in the justification of its GNP it does not offer a single reason for what the damage is. I do not say that I do not have them, be careful; I say that I do not justify them, and that this initiative therefore gives the impression that it corresponds with that list of proposals-plants that are carried everywhere, that political groups lead to any place where a proposal like this has to be presented. But, well, the Socialists are given the opportunity today to express our rejection of accounts that harm the Spanish and Spanish as a whole. The Basques too, yes, because they do not repeal labour reform, nor do they abolish medicine, nor do they increase pensions sufficiently, by citing three issues that we here in Euskadi, with our own capacity for self-government, with our own powers, can compensate and alleviate. And it also harms the Basques because it harms Asturians, Andalusians, Galicians or extremists, and we feel concerned about it. And the fundamental reason for our rejection of the general state budgets in process is that the economic growth they augur does not then translate into improvements for the people. And the Socialists argue that economic growth must be the driving force behind the recovery of social cohesion. If there is one thing we radically believe in is that the best moments in our history, in the history of Spain and also in the history of Euskadi, those of greater social progress, have occurred when economic growth has been boosted and at the same time there has been a fair sharing of that growth. And that's not reflected in these state accounts for 2017. The GDP augured by the general budgets of the State has not reached or will reach the pockets of the homes of thousands of fellow citizens. And as that happens, and the Rajoy government speaks of "public spending drunkards", its project deliberately renounces a fair tax reform that improves resource generation and a model of redistribution of these resources. As long as the Rajoy Government presumes employment data, workers remain unprotected and forced into temporary occupations that do not guarantee them decent wages to meet their most basic needs, or contributions to benefit from future pensions. While Rajoy's Government celebrates the present, the young people of Spain as a whole continue to find no hope for the future. While the Rajoy Government favours higher incomes, child poverty rates are rising in the country. And that is no longer a question of socialist discourse, but it is an analysis shared by an organism as unsuspecting of insurgents as the OECD, which in a recent report says that the crisis has left scars in Spain that undermine well-being, with the most visible still very high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality. The lack of quality employment, and the high number of temporary and part-time workers, who go through periods of unemployment and underemployment, prevent them from achieving sufficient hours of paid work and adequate income. The Basque Socialists defend for Euskadi and for all of Spain that we will not be able to talk about a way out of the crisis until those who have suffered the most from it come out of it. We want to recover the economy, but above all, that citizens should recover. And that is not going to happen with budgets like these, where all the weight of deficit reduction continues to fall on the backs of public spending, without any change in income. Accounts that are resigned, such as those of the worst times of the recession, that give up a minimum bet for the change of economic cycle, one that can bet on modernization and that requires the productive fabric, that of science and research, for example. Two weeks ago the amendment to the whole of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party proposing the return of the budgets did not prosper, and hence almost two thousand amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies, trying to form an economic policy alternative to that of the Rajoy Government; amendments which, by the way, are being vetoed in the committee for their treatment. As I said, amendments which aim to achieve inclusive economic growth by implementing a set of actions which, on the one hand, restore and consolidate equality and welfare policies and, on the other, renew the obstacles preventing the growth of the productivity of the Spanish economy. The socialists started with a tax reform to pay the one who, by being able and due, does not pay, and to pay more the one who has more. And those resources turn them into measures of equality, cohesion and social protection, education, health, quality employment, innovation. And all this that I have just said for sure sounds familiar to you, at least to those who were in the last legislature in this House and were parliamentarians and parliamentarians, because these arguments that we put forward today to explain our radical opposition to Montoro's first general budgets in this legislature in Congress are exactly the same arguments that we put forward and used in his day to oppose the first budgets of the Basque Government in the past mandate. And we got those criteria to be finally accepted by the Executive, and we've incorporated them as government commitments into the current executive. In Euskadi we have been able to do so despite cohabiting with Rajoy's restrictive policies, because we have demonstrated political will and agreement capacity to be able to rely on these additional resources through an initial tax reform, including the specific items that compensate those suffering from drug or energy poverty. If Basques and Basques can do this today, it is because we have made our capabilities count, and we do so with the capacity offered by the Economic Concert. And we do so with all the capabilities that the Statute of Gernika also offers us. The unquestionable defence on our part of that responsibility that we have decided to assume does not prevent the Basque Socialists from demanding today a fair system for the Spanish and Spanish as a whole. This just system of autonomous financing has to do with these budgets, which are now under discussion, which are proposing cuts and reckless reforms, which endanger the welfare state and prevent the current system of autonomous financing from allowing all the autonomous parts of Spain to guarantee the services they provide. The singularity cannot and must not be in conflict with solidarity. On the contrary, we defend our uniqueness and solidarity. That is why we reject the speeches of the grievances, and that is why we reject the budget project of the Rajoy Government. This is what the Socialists advocate in our amendment, which we invite to join those in this House who defend a project in solidarity with the rest of the Spanish people and workers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Popular Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, today, although the debate is not new, because I think we already have two or three on the same subject since we approved the budgets of the Basque Government, hearing the same arguments, some parties, today we have a motion by Bildu, a PNL by Podemos and an amendment by the Socialist Party. Bildu's motion is to put his finger in the eye of the PNV for a pact with the People's Party, as in the budgets of the State; Podemos's is to put his finger in the eye of the Socialist Party because it is in the Basque Government, and to see what they are going to say, and with that of the Socialist Party, they bite like panchitos and enter the game. I do not know the consistency here of some parliamentarians or political parties, but when they say that the social cuts are not reversed, I will remember that the biggest social cuts that the Spanish as a whole have suffered, including the Basques, were the pension freeze of the Socialist Party, the reduction of the salary of the officials (5%) of the Socialist Party, or the unemployment of more than 25% of the population thanks to the Socialist Party. These figures do reverse, because pensions rise, civil servants rise their salaries, and unemployment is less than 18%. And I feel like some people are upset by this data and figures because they'd like them to be worse, but they're not. Then things are turning around. Man, I'm also surprised that what you all put forward is that, instead of adopting a budget that looks like at least five different political parties are going to support, you prefer the extension of a budget that only the People's Party approved, because it seems to you better. Because that's what they're proposing. What they are proposing is that, if these budgets are not approved, the 2016 budgets will be extended, which is what is happening now. They prefer the 2016 budgets, which the People's Party approved on its own. Because that's the approach we're being made here. Man, and the Socialist Party, which is making an amendment calling for a new system of autonomous financing that respects the uniqueness of Euskadi and Navarra (as far as I know, it has been respected), and that guarantees to the whole of the autonomous communities the financing of the public services of their competence so as to ensure equality and solidarity for all Spaniards, I will only remind you that the current Financing Act is the one that you approved with the Catalan nationalists, among others. I guess if you're asking this is because you recognize that that law you passed does not guarantee the financing of public services, nor does it guarantee the equality or solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards. Because, the rest, I don't know how to understand your proposal. It is that your Autonomous Financing Act is in force, which you passed! Are you asking us to modify it by running to guarantee these things? What is the Socialist Party asking us here today, that we amend its law, so good, so supportive, so equitable when it comes to distributing income among all the autonomous communities? That is why I say to you that, in the end, a little coherence should be found in the proposals that are being made. And when we talk about the state budgets, and we also approve the spending ceiling – which I remind you that it is what you did not so long ago, to then propose that we have to spend more money than you have agreed on the spending ceiling; that is, we are opposed to the budgets – it is also a little incoherent. If you set the spending ceiling, and you want to make amendments, then you'll have to say "Let's get out of here and put it here," which you haven't done. And Bildu tells us that the issue of pensions is very important. Of course it's very important! And less evil that they continue in Madrid, and so we continue to collect and guarantee that Basque pensioners will continue to collect pensions. And that's not the same as your model as ours. Of course, nothing. But nothing. And in taxation, what are we going to talk about? Let's see, here, when everyone talks about decentralization, about competences... I don't know why they say "State budgets cut in education, in health...". Hey, don't you know that we have exclusive competence, that we fund it ourselves? When you talk to us, Mr Hernández, about taking money from public employment services, don't you know which one we have here? His name is Lanbide. And who do you think it depends on? How do you think this works? What are the cuts? Now, it's very easy to come here and say, "They make cuts." Yes, they also said it in the budgets of the Basque Government, and they say the same about those of the Spanish Government, which is that, incidentally, in both cases, the greatest social spending in history is in these Budgets. What do you want me to say? When they talk about taxation, casually, this year is going to beat the record of collection in Spain and the Basque Country. Yes, yes! Yeah, tax collection. No, no, I'm telling you from now on. What are you talking about! Or when the PSOE tells us about the tax reform in Spain, which when we arrived the big companies paid zero, Zero. Zero, in Madrid and here, because they are governed by the rules of Madrid. But what fiscal reform is the Socialist Party in Spain talking about that improves collection! It's already improved, it's already improved. And it is improving, and much, with the reforms that have been made to make these big companies pay, that they previously did not pay, and with the fight against fraud, that, look, it also gets record figures, collection figures. Not of estimate, but of collection. And let the PSOE come to us here and talk about the armor, which is that the state budgets don't shield social services... Hey, you're in the government, you're the one who has to shield you here. But what social services are you talking about? On those who depend on the Basque Government? Of which the Basque Government is responsible? What are you talking about? What a speech you're making here! They are all making the paripé's speech, which we have been repeating from the budgets of the Basque Government without presenting any alternative. Let us know that the Budget Act does not repeal labour reform... Of course! No, you can't, and you already know that. And it is also not convenient, because it has borne fruit of that labor reform, which is what the Germans did more than ten years ago. Someone has set Germany an example! More than ten years ago the Germans did it, yes. And the French. And when they tell us about pension cuts, listen, let's see, in Europe the record for lowering pensions has Greece, which I think govern their homonyms and their homonyms. More than 30% of Greeks have had their pensions cut! And the second country Portugal, which, in short, did not govern the extreme right that you propose. And I'm not going to extend much longer, because here we're repeating... Bildu the jealous attack because he didn't agree on the Basque Government's budgets and we agreed. We were so sorry, we didn't know that they were going to get to that very worrying situation, and that they were going to have such a bad time. They continue to be disturbed by the Spanish Government and the People's Party reaching agreements with others, not just the PNV... With the PNV we could not approve the budgets, we need many more votes, and hopefully we will get them and they can be approved, because it will be good for Spain and it will be good for the Basque Country. Those of Podemos, when criticism is so much exaggerated ("Women no longer work", "Young people are all in unemployment"...), when you make those exaggerations as you have made us, I think it's ridiculous who makes them. Today, many more women work than before, thanks to God and to labor reform [[Barres]] , and they work many younger, for the same reason. And you know what? If we maintain stability a little bit, and you continue to do the demagogy but you can't mess things up, so we can move on, get to keep down the unemployment rate, let people find jobs, let our young people don't have to go looking for it outside... And in case I had forgotten to say so, we are going to vote against it, because we are in favour of state budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u17	Thank you. It may be observed, but I should have said, after the first part of the debate, that in this debate the schema of Spain triumphs, why, apart from the fact that it is the Presupus of the State, it is the schema of the Union, of the political schema, of Podemos, and, in short, of the Social Party and of the Podula. That's for starters. Why? Besides having a minimum of maturity in politics, you must have a minimum of political courage. To-day, if you had tried to play in a nice and methodical way, you would have brought here the reproach of the agreement which PNV and Poptular Party have obtained. A minimum of political courage! Do not hide yourselves in the general budgets of the State, an exercise of political escapism, of lack of courage. I won't call it cowardice, but lack of courage! Bring the agreement here, propose your rejection; do not escape from the vericouets of the general budgets of the state, which has many and many. "Claro, y la sulse custión que ha stateo etexto, which has been up to this point, is whether Poptular is involved in an agreement or not in corruption, why Government or Rajoy himself are once involved in making an agreement, ethically and politically. Well, the People's Party and Rajoy have been chosen by the Spanish. The PNV did not vote for the investiture. After voting for the Basques, a government and a lehendakari, Iñigo Urkullu, has emerged from this House. That's the Basque lehendakari. One has been chosen by the Spaniards, and another by the Basques. From there, the Basque Nationalist Party has said "We are going to put on the table a political agenda to negotiate with the Spanish government", and in its day, if it changes its tenant, with the result in La Moncloa. Then, of course, it is clear that the People's Party has negotiated with the Basque Nationalist Party because it felt necessary! I would say that extreme necessity, because when it has had absolute majority it has absolutely never united us. What is not to be received that certain agreements that had to have their institutional, valued and legal course, and that they should have had agreement, fruit, in the past, and that that has not occurred, and it has also been by that absolute majority and that pride that not only the governments of the People's Party (there have also been socialist governments with an absolute majority) have exhibited with regard to the Basque institutions? That, that it shouldn't have been like that? Okay. Okay. But that is politics also on a day-to-day basis, because there are people in Spain who think that in the transition it has been overly yielded, unduly, and that it is necessary to rescue the powers that have been unduly transferred, according to some. But, of course, when we enter a debate such as the budget debate one has to know exactly where the limits of a budget debate are; if so, where the potentialities of an understanding or agreement lie. But let us go into that context: we have a draft budget and a chance to negotiate. Here on previous occasions we have been told that, well, we have tried to dress, to dress, that if the Cup, in the best of cases a tie..., that I myself had tried to introduce into the debate other issues outside the budget, as could be the prison policy, that less bad that Alfonso Alonso came out steep and quick to deny..., with the consequent relief for Mrs Larraitz Ugarte, because, because he does not have, he does not have a plan for his prisoners. But let us also tell the truth about this matter, and another series of fine words that say that we have supported a facsimile and corrupt government, and that we will be responsible for those undesirable consequences. Eta exacten from "Gauza ez da akordioak Egypta, gauza da zeren truffle, zer ordaintzen duen herri honek akordio horiek egitearen". And well, the agreement has many chapters; among others, the two liquidations of the two five-year-olds, establishment of the base year, etc. And, of course, when one reads (political position), saying you, the Podemos and also the Bildu, who are going to vote in favour of the agreement, and when Patxi Zabaleta himself says "Although the idea does not please anyone, the best strategy in defending the naval positions in the Cup would be to join the negotiation of the autonomous community (...), the interests and texts are common, the anecdotal differences...". When on 4 May you jointly instruct the Government to explain, "no more materialization of any agreement on the Economic Concert and the Cup, in the Committee on Finance and Budgets, detailing, inter alia, the contents, deadlines and guarantees of that agreement...". If the agreement has been reached, where is the problem? Where's the problem? Why don't you bring in a non-law proposal, after double questioning, if you want a joint motion, so that the agreements can be rejected from this House? Why don't you have that kind of courage? Because they have nothing to say! It's very sad, but they don't have anything to say. So you have nothing to say, that you want to tell me, Elkarrekin We can, beyond the universalist, generalist amendments, which affect us all, the working class and other classes as well; you want to tell me you, gentlemen of Bildu, beyond the amendment of totality that you have presented to the general budgets of the State, that every time...? Well, I already knew that Oskar Matute was putting an internationalist touch on the group, but it is that, along with Marian Beitialarrangoitia, he has introduced a scheme in the amendment to the whole that you would see if there is a transition from Basque scheme to Spanish scheme! Read the amendment! Do you want to tell me what amendments you have tabled directly related to Basque interests and problems, in case you have any room for negotiation with the People's Party? Do you want to tell me how many amendments you have tabled? Beyond the reduction of Cupo, in which, well, we have to reduce the aliquot part of Defense, Crown, etc., etc., in order to cover or budget another series of matters, do you want to tell me what amendments? And why, for example, you, being in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, why do you ask not to pay the aliquot part, and you paid, txintxo-txintxo, religiously, quarterly the quota, also to the Crown and the Army? What amendments have they tabled in Madrid? They come here with an amendment, with a generic motion of disapproval. Euskal agenda, that is another matter. Bakea, prestaak eta beasts gai batzuk, trading-mahai hen dadenak, noski. Because here, this that Rajoy is unable to proceed to any agreement, and the Spanish government too, what is it?, which works when it affects the other? Because when it affects one, do you want to tell me, when you come to an agreement with the prosecutor of the National Audience of the Kingdom of Spain on thirty leaders of the left abertzale, why do you come to an agreement? Why? Oh, that's valid! That's valid. And I applaud the agreement, but why is it good when you lead it yourself and it's rejectable when the other one does? You'll have to reason, at least! Because Mr. Rajoy is the same corrupt. It was not impolite before and not a month and a half ago, when the lehendakari visited it, they met to proceed with the disarmament of ETA in an orderly manner. It's Rajoy himself. It's the same Rajoy, it's not another. And speaking on the subject, by the way, five minutes before Mrs Larraitz's inquiry, Arzuaga asks the Lehendakari about prison policy, and says to him: "Oringo legealdi honetan ere Espainiako Gobernuak eta Espainiako Gobernuaren presidentak bere eskuetan ditu nik propositutako edo nik egindako proposimenamen guztiak, presoak gerturatzeko plana eta espexe-politika aldatzeko proposimena". That's at Mr. President's table, it's on the political agenda. Obviously, it has not been linked to budgetary matters, but it is on the agenda. But do you know how serious the subject is? In his past intervention, and also in the opinion articles, is that what worries him most, what corrodes him, is that the PNV has a plan. Have a plan! And it relieves you of Mr. Alfonso Alonso's denial. And the serious thing about it is that you, for not having, don't have a plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u18	Finish, go, Mr. Egibar...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u19	Right now. And I mean with Navarre, too. I hope, too, that the agreement should be held out by the convent of Navarre. And I bet it will. And as part of the political book, too, I'd bet the Garogna will fall.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing in response, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u21	Beno, hasiko naiz for the vasquitos and nesquitas, bale? [[Barres]] It's obvious... I looked at you, when I had an engagement with the President on the previous Friday, and then, on my way back, as I drove, my reflection was that you were very angry. And today, seeing your interference, I realize you're even more angry. In fact, I'm more and more conscious, and that's the only reason, and it's the obvious difficulties that you have the deal with the Popular Party to sell, in your lines, your voters. You've got obvious problems. You've spoken to them, because you're inclined to do that, and you've got obvious problems. I don't think it's a matter of political courage, I'm not going to go into that dynamic, I think it's too well known to be brave, if you've been listening to me the other day... It's true you've been with the mob for a long time, but if you noticed, we had that argument, and I don't want to repeat it to you again today. I don't want to repeat to-day that discussion about the agreement. I told you frankly that this agreement was a bad one. And this isn't about getting to the agreement or not reaching it. It is a matter of indifference to what it is that remembers, with whom it is remembered, and with what end. If this town could get all the prisoners out of sight with the state and that's the deal, would that be good? Yeah. Should we remember? Yeah. Should the right of self-determination be remembered for this country? Yeah. What is it that you have brought into this country? Did you bring prisoners? Did you bring the right of self-determination? Did you bring peace? No, you brought in a promise to "Y" Esscal, an investment promise, which we'll be able to see and see before, a few passengers who owed us and stole us from Kupo's absence, then I didn't know what 1,400 million and 300 million are missing. So, the settlement was rather elaborate, total training. Today, I think we have to repeat that these budgets are bad, and these are the things you've decided on for it. And that's exactly what we should say to this people. And those are the explanations you're going to have to give. We don't need to explain, because we didn't make those agreements. In any case, and the mention you made is that the consent of the National Audience has not been obtained by EH Collect, the lawyers have succeeded, and I would ask you if the lawyer de Miguel would not agree with the prosecutor not to go to jail with De Miguel. I hope that's a bad deal for De Miguel. There is the same case, if we are to come to the consent of not going to prison, I think it is proper that we should come to consent. Orine, with the benches (by the way, a comment of very bad taste). Just tell him that he doesn't offend who he wants, but who he can. And you can't offend EH Bildu. EH BiIdu is very clear about his approach to the People's Party, his approach to the general budgets of the State, and to the Government of Spain in general and what comes to us from Spain in general, which is, thanks to God and to labor reform, not bad, but horrific. And I'd tell the Socialist Party one of those days, which are difficult preventives, because on the one hand it's "No Voy a morder la mano que de comer" and on the other side is "Tengo marcarlid y perfil." And that's the result of the amendment you've introduced. However, I am extremely glad, as in the State, that you consider these accounts of the popular party as bad. We are agreed, and we are ready to vote for this amendment, to protect the first point, and I would ask you to vote on that amendment by point, because we think it's important to say that this bill of law, the Spanish Common-wealth question, is, that the Prejudgations of this people... for it is true that we have professions, but the whole business system and business rule is Spanish, the whole pensioning system and the whole community is Spanish, and the great sub-structures so significant in this country are made by Spain, for misfortune's sake. And, therefore, I think we have a majority, who would have it possible for this parliament to refuse those funds, and once more to place the Basque Lands in the Spanish State a rogue of Flanders. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u23	Well, before I begin, I want to address those who intervene here, in the sense that our parliamentary group, our coalition, is called Elkarrekin Podemos, not only Podemos. It may seem silly to you, but it's worth it to us, because we call ourselves that. We are a coalition of three groups, and we like to address others with the name that they have decided to put in this House, and if we are ever wrong I am delighted to be reminded. The objective that we had was to explain it perfectly before, and it was that this House should clearly stand against the general budgets of the State. It was not so much to criticize a certain agreement – even though it, or as a result of it, those general budgets will be approved – but this House, the will of the votes in Euskadi, reflects what we understand to be the will of the citizens of Euskadi today. And that is to say that the general budgets of the State presented by the People's Party are bad for Euskadi and are bad for the whole of the State's citizenship. That was our goal. And we have tried to get the Socialist Party to sign that initiative with us. And they're not worth an apology. For us, the method has always been: I referred to Mrs Corcuera in this case to sign a compromise amendment which, as I said before, was almost the same as what they proposed. And the media, like every Wednesday, we went out yesterday to explain the initiatives that we were bringing to this House. And yes, I put the Socialist Party in that press conference, logically. That's no secret. You're against the general state budgets, aren't you? It is therefore logical that, if I bring this House to reject these general budgets, I place them in rejection, right? So, you're putting in some rather lame excuses, because what you've preferred is to avoid a certain photo that might spoil the photo you have with the Basque Nationalist Party. It's not our problem. We are going to be responsible, and, as I said earlier, our objective – and the vote will demonstrate this – is to see the will to say that the Basque Parliament rejects the general budgets of the People's Party in Madrid, which we do not agree with. Because these are budgets that are bad, yes, for the citizens of the whole state, and that concerns us. We're very concerned. And they're also bad for Euskadi's citizenship. Beyond the fact that we have a very high competence, we do, but they do affect us. And they affect us a lot. Or do unemployment benefits not affect us? Or don't pensions affect us? Of course they affect us. But we are also concerned about how they affect the whole State, even in taxation. We are very concerned about how they affect the whole State. I don't know if I'm a demagogue or not. I don't think so. But what I'm not is a liar. And I didn't say that women don't work with their policies. I said that the policies you apply exclude women from the labour market, and those are objective data that are there. Consult them, Mr Damborenea, because what has happened in these years with women in the world of work is objectively demonstrable. It's not like we've been brave or cowards. We have brought the debate we wanted, Mr Egibar. We wanted to talk about the general budgets, because I told you that it seems important that this House should say, because we believe that it is the majority will in Euskadi, where, by the way, in the general elections it was our coalition that won the elections... Since you like to breastfeed that you are the majority party, the most voted party, that we are not going to deny... And our goal was that, not to talk so much about the deal. Our goal is for this House – and I think it could be achieved – to say that these general budgets are bad for citizens. That was our goal. We are not going to deny political parties the legitimacy of agreeing. For me, negotiate with you and agree with the People's Party, I have no problem. Like they're pulling off a bridge with them! We criticise the contents, and we are criticizing the general budgets that you are going to vote for in Madrid. That is what we are criticizing, and that is what we want this House to stand for and say that they are not good budgets for the whole of the citizenry. That's our goal. If the Socialist Party's amendment is voted on by points, that objective may be achieved. We have already said that we will also be a responsible opposition. If it seems to us that that is what this House has to do, it gives us no matter what the South is proposing: our objectives will have been achieved, and the Basque and Basque Parliament will have said today that the general budgets of the People's Party state are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u25	Yes, thank you, President. The Basque Socialists still find it a good opportunity today to debate here in Parliament on the defence of our uniqueness, making it compatible with the essential solidarity with the rest of the Spanish Autonomous Communities. And we also find it interesting to discuss the rejection of budgets that we continue to think, Mr Damborenea, that are claudicative, that contain forecasts of unreal income (we do not say so, the tax authority), that also increase inequality, and is checked by agencies such as the OECD, including the INE; budgets that do not contribute to an inclusive recovery and that do not bet on the modernization of the Spanish economy, and that also harm the majority of Spanish citizens. We would certainly not be here today, in this debate, if 14 months ago there had been another attitude on the part of the political parties, which with their vote in the Congress of Deputies prevented an alternative programme, a programme which they rejected, and in addition where a tax reform was planned that was very close to what we Socialists were able to implement here in Euskadi. An alternative proposal that was rejected, and in addition that contained the reinforced minimum vital income in households with minors, or the increase even of investment in R & D+i, or the repeal of labour reform. Then we rejected all that because of stubbornness, and because we understand that this is the right thing, the Socialists have again tabled in the almost two thousand amendments that we have planned to discuss and discuss, if they leave us, because, as I say, two days ago a veto was introduced for partial amendments in the Congress of Deputies. And the Basque socialists oppose accounts that consolidate this labor reform, or health cuts. And we defend all the agreements between institutions that allow us to develop what, black and white, we have committed ourselves to do here in Euskadi. And one of those commitments was the agreement on the Cup, an agreement that we hope will be a more peaceful tool so that, with our powers, with those of self-government, we can curb the outbursts of the policies of the People's Party, which have also caused enormous damage, in terms of work or against the welfare state. The welfare state the People's Party intends to let him die, or at least privatize him in many of his cases. And in Euskadi the Basque Nationalist Party, for those who think we feel uncomfortable... And no, not at all: the Basque Socialists have their own profile, and we feel very comfortable in the Basque Government and taking care of our tasks and the responsibility of government. And, as I said, in Euskadi the Basque Nationalist Party has committed itself to the Basque socialists in the implementation of other policies other than those which the People's Party is implementing or intends to implement in Spain. We socialists do have a global idea of Spain, and what we think is bad for Basque citizenship, what we don't want for Basque citizenship, neither do we want for the rest of Spanish citizenship, whatever autonomy that citizenship belongs to. And that is why we have decided to appeal from Euskadi to Rajoy to reach an agreement with the autonomies on its financing, because a new system of autonomous financing is more necessary than ever that is fair and equitable and that gives certainty, stability and balance to the system of distributing public resources. Mr.Damborenea, we already know that the law was of 2009, but it was also revised in 2013 in several months, it was also revised in 2014, and it is not updated and not revised since 2014. And we are all very aware here of the problem that autonomy has in Spain in order to be able to come to or at least solve its competitive issues in the field of public services. And it is not the same situation that Euskadi has, or that of Navarra, with regard to the situation that other autonomy has. That is why we advocate that, from the singularity of Euskadi and Navarra, Mr Rajoy's story should be applied and that he should work to solve that problem. And I ended up going back a little bit to the beginning of what my intervention was. It is just that I understand that one of the proponents of this debate did not want to put forward the proposal to reject the budgets. It was another one. It was manifesting how, being independent, we could be better. And we weren't going to agree on that. Another of Elkarrekin's themes We can... Perhaps you have this system of first telling the press, and then you are calling the groups you want to sign with (something like that must have happened or must have happened with the motion of censure that you raise against Mr Rajoy), but, of course, that is not the working methodology of the Basque Socialists. If you really wanted an agreement, I understand you had more than enough time to call us, not yesterday, but the day before yesterday or the day before. Therefore, let me be suspicious of your willingness to compromise. However, the Socialists, if anything can be done and come forward in this debate, we are ready for our amendment to be voted on by points. I say this because Mrs Ugarte has also raised it, and so has Elkarrekin Podemos. Therefore, the Basque Socialists will vote for our amendment, both in favour, because we believe that it raises the rejection of Rajoy's budgets and because it proposes the defence of an autonomous financing system that must be new and also maintain solidarity among all the peoples of Spain, and that it respects and endorses the unique features of Euskadi and Navarra. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u27	Well, by nurturing Mr Egibar, the Basques have voted for the Lehendakari and the Basques have also voted for the President of the Government of Spain. We have both voted for the Basques, each Basque whatever he thought was appropriate. I think it is clear that the debate is not about the state's budgets. I think it has become clear that Bildu has come to shake the PNV... By the way, I didn't call you panchitos. I've called those benches, don't give up what I haven't said. And, in case you don't know, it's the young man of the besugus. The panchito is becoming a besugo, and in the end some come and get it. [[Berber]] You say that the PNV has a problem explaining the agreement it has reached. Well, I don't know if the PNV has any problems; what I don't see either of you saying what's wrong with that agreement, except it's with the PP government. But you want to agree with the PP government, what happens is that what you want to agree with the PP government is that we do not want to agree with the PP government, which is different. And to Elkarrekin Podemos, who has come to shake the PSOE, I will tell you only one thing. Look, there's never been as many women working in Spain as today, and they're the ones pulling us out of the crisis. And from here you do whatever demagogy you want, on the issue of women or on any other, because the data are who they are. And, Mrs Corcuera, you tell us that these state budgets provide for unreal tax revenues. Hey, but if you've approved the spending ceiling! The spending ceiling is "these are revenues, these are expenditures." But how can you come here to tell me that tax revenues are unreal in what you have approved! Sure! A little coherence, which I told you at first! Tell me about the health cuts (less that the health counselor is here!) in Osakidetza. Will the Councillor, this Basque Government, apply health cuts? What cuts is Mrs. Corcuera talking about? Aren't you in this Basque government? Whose skills are they? I thought we had expanded, that we're going to spend more money, more money on health! Even we have tabled and adopted amendments that increase health spending! But what's he coming to tell us here? It says "The welfare state, the People's Party either privatizes it or...", such. Listen, the state of social welfare, which you left broken, broken, with the freezing of pensions included, has been saved by the People's Party, the People's Party Government. As always it reaches the government, because we always arrive to save the state of social welfare, that you leave it broken. And when we fix it, you come back and break it again. Sure! It's cyclical. It's been in Europe for many years, isn't it? And here I remember when Felipe González already lost the elections, Aznar arrives, and to ask for the loan to pay the pensions. And now the same, now the same. It tells me the problem of autonomy in Spain. It is that you also have a double problem: autonomy in Spain has a financing problem if the state budgets are not approved. Sure! Sure! Who are the autonomous communities..., which governments have the most interest in approving budgets? The Autonomous Communities of Spain. Why? Because, as the State collects, this item has to come into its budget law. And it is, but you are going to vote against that increase in over EUR 6 billion in autonomous funding. So don't tell us you're worried about the funding of the autonomous communities. That's not true. They're going to vote against it. They're going to vote against it. You prefer that last year's one be extended, and that even if there is more tax revenue you receive nothing, even those that you govern. But that is their approach of absolute lack of coherence. And you said... Look, from the year 82, that there were about ten million social security contributors, today we are in more than 18 million. We would like everyone to quote for the maximum, but let's see if we get to 20 in two or three years, and at best, even if you keep saying that it's all very bad and that no one works, neither women nor anyone, we get that most Spaniards can live better – which is what is happening today – than when we get to the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u28	Thank you, Lord Damborene. Eucacious Albertians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u29	First, Mr. Hernandez, you're right, and I think I've been the spokesman to you as Podemos and you're Podemos, I know, it's my fault, so I apologize. Well, what I'm clean is that because I haven't received an answer is that you're not going to share a political initiative where you're going to blame the agreement you've made-you'd prefer to run away and do not examine the contents and not decide that. Well, it's your choice. Believe me, indeed, we have no difficulty in explaining or explaining this agreement in our principles, bases, and beyond. And I will tell you often that your positions are entirely useful, and sometimes there is no explanation to be given, because they are not ignorant, but because they know what they are at stake, and this agreement will put all the Basques into another position; Perhaps you have not felt this nervousness as much as we have, but this relief, to have our financial affairs in view for 10 years and to the future, is favorable, politically, in order to accomplish the political developments which this people require, in order to prolong them. So, no problem at all. You used to say, "auzo-loo," the other day, "Limos vergüenza," "corsponsables de las barbaridas." You didn't mention it today. The tone of today seems to have dropped a little, and it wasn't "Five million dollars is the measure of our country? Selling? Dignity? "I don't know. Kontu horiek guztiak entzun izan ditugu, éta esaten duzue "By opting to reach great agreements with the political and social forces of Euskal Herria to advance as a country, they have decided once again to seek accommodation in the most rancio, facha and corrupt of Spain". Beno, gu euskaldunak gara, and I don't know if it's, I don't know, for his discomfort or uneasiness, but we don't feel, we don't want or need to be Spanish. Gu euskaldunak train station, egu ferri honen etorkizunean aurrera egiteko prest gaude. To get to the deals, too. Big and small. But it is not easy, at least, to come to an agreement with a man who makes similar discourses. Well, yes, you'll say the same for me, too, you say. But it is not only speech: During these days, as we worked in this arrangement, you see, as far as Madrid is concerned, the political activity has its course, and at that time, as many and as many of the chalks produced from the Gipukian Division, you are aware of their steps. And you see how some of them apply that base, "the enemy of my enemy may be a friend"; "El mymigo de mi mi amigo." Eta ore, esaidazu, bestela, ze esplikazio ematen diozun edo eman behar dituzuen, since esaten duzu esplikazioen garaia..., in that strategy that I described and continue to describe as destruction of the political adversary, which has been practiced and continues to be practiced, in that... it was going to say obfuscation, almost delirium, with the aim of continuing a series of investigations, how is justified when for example in Gipuzkoa, and on the topics that you know very well, those of Bidegi, when all those technical experts have occurred, come you (and take explanation!, because this is going to require explanation) and ask for help from the Central Operational Unit (the UCO), the central organ of the Judicial Police Service of the Civil Guard, with the technical help you need, "to carry out an investigation that dictates whether the increases in the budget are justified and correspond with works actually executed in BigiP works managed in society". That happens now, a month ago. After all the forensics, help? Help? To the UCO, to the Civil Guard.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u30	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u31	Helping the UCO, the Civil Guard. As her daughter and her friends say, "Good boy!". (Barreak) Here, take the ingot! Apart from the spade in Flanders, which, by the way, is a more Spanish terminology (of course, it is not very rooted in Basque sovereignism), "Buah, my dear!". Give me an explanation! To enter the Civil Guard, because they need losers in your nightmares, because they must be beaten, conquered, that is to say, conquered. It's not won, it's won...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u32	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u33	Hori bihurtu Zarete: "The enemy of my enemy is my friend": the Benemerita.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of Mrs. Ugarte Bridgeriata's motion. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abscessations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u35	So, not allowed original text. After that, we vote together for another proposal like Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abscessations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u36	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialist Group. No points requested. So, since there's no problem, we'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u37	So the first point is to be accepted. We'll vote for the second point. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 55; white, 0; abscessions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u38	So the second point is not accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentarian Society did, concerning the over-excitement of public employment. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, the Popular Party brings back a subject which worries the people, and we brought the same proposal in the previous proceedings. Since it's the same attitude as 'Munch', since the attitude hasn't changed, we think it's a good idea to bring this debate back to us in this law. As we see that the Executive chaired by Mr Urkullu intends to persist in the disproportionate demand of the Basque woman in the public offers of employment, public offers of employment that have already been announced for this legislature through various calls, we have considered it appropriate, and since we are at the beginning of a new legislature, to present this proposal. We understand that, with the announcements and with the intention of pursuing the same linguistic policy, this Government does not take into account, once again, the socio-linguistic reality of the various areas, the effective use of Basque in the various areas of the Autonomous Community, which is not the same, which does not discriminate in access to a post in the public administration and which guarantees equal access, therefore, to a post in the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This is why we think it proper to bring this subject back, and it is the object of the Pontulacian party not to exaggerate it-that is to say, not to be decisive and to renew the lyrical politics. That is why, as I said, it is appropriate to propose this initiative again for debate in this House, which we have already proposed during successive legislatures. In some cases the agreement with the Socialist Party, a partner of this government, was possible. Specifically in the IX Legislature, in the Legislature of Patxi López, an agreement was reached to which I will then refer, to review the linguistic profiles and the assessment of Basque as merit in relation to other merits. And in the last parliamentary term we also reached an agreement between the Socialist Party and UPyD, practically in the same terms that we have presented this initiative today, I would say in a similar way. In short, we propose that the Basque Government rectify the unjust and discriminatory policy of requiring knowledge of Basque as a prerequisite for public employment, and that the criteria for access to public offers be changed, so as not to prioritise knowledge of Basque about what technical training and experience are. That is to say, to amend the rules for the allocation of language profiles for each post; to adapt to the socio-linguistic reality and the effective use of Basque in each area, and also to ensure, and to do so as much as is necessary, that the principle of equal access to the provision of jobs is ensured. We see that public offer after public offer of employment the knowledge of euskera, due to its demand, and its disproportionate demand in relation to other merits, or to how linguistic profiles are assigned, euskera is not a merit anymore, it has not become a plus more, but it is a real obstacle in accessing a post in the public administration. On the one hand there is the number of squares profiled, which does not correspond to that sociolinguistic reality to which it referred, and, therefore, this higher requirement of profiles in the Administration is not accompanied by a greater use of Basque and, of course, with that sociolinguistic reality. On the other hand, the assessment of the Basque language, its excessive assessment of training and experience, also leads to clearly unfair situations, and that all this causes discomfort for the candidates. And to show a button. In one of the last calls, for a call of 419 places there were 16,009 people. Of those 16,009 people, 36% had the level of euskera accredited, but among those who eventually took the place that percentage of accreditation of a profile rose to 92%. Ladies and gentlemen, of course something is wrong when a collective representing 36% when it comes to running for a job, on the knowledge of the Basque... and not knowledge, but accreditation of the corresponding profile, is then done with 92% of the posts. Of course, I believe that this is quite significant that things do not work, and that things do not work fairly in relation to respecting the principle of equal access to a post in the public administration. He said that all these situations cause a discomfort among opponents who obviously meet the requirements and present themselves to a public call, seeing, for example, how the one who has a PL2, which scores eighteen points, so in the end happens to them in the evaluation of merits. I'll give you another example. And, as the councillor himself explained, the past legislature in a public appearance, in one of the calls in Osakidetza, of all the candidates in the examination phase, that is, in the opposition phase, which approved the examination, the percentage was 70 %. Of course, if in Basque, as is the situation, the PL2 is valued with eighteen points, which is equivalent to all the maximum that can be credited for the training... All the maximum that can be believed in training are eighteen points, which is very difficult for everyone to be able to accredit doctoral, doctoral cum laude, postgraduate master's degree, specialist expert, research sufficiency, degree degree, doctoral course... I mean, here you can already have the training you want, but when it comes to attending, in this case for example as a doctor, to the Administration..., you can already have all the training you want, which will be valued at a maximum of eighteen points. Same as the PL2: eighteen points. Well, then, if you have a PhD, you're going to be rated less than that PL2, which is eighteen points, and, for example, a postgraduate master's degree is going to be rated at seven and a half points. This is in accordance with the resolution approving the basis of the latest OPE call for Osakidetza in the medical category. Therefore, seeing for example that percentage of approved, of 70% in the opposition phase, the Basque country became clearly a determining factor, because in the end, on equal terms in the approval of the examination, in the approval of that examination, obviously the one having that PL2 we see that it clearly passed to other candidates, who could already have very good training and very good experience, but, of course, they had very difficult to reach those eighteen points. It is evident that this produces many professionals to be absent, and that their impatience is increased, and that an unjust state arises. Hence we repeat that reflection is indispensable in the Poparal Party, in order not to produce a similar situation, and in order to obtain a position, we think it necessary that this excess of support should not become a determinant. We therefore consider once again that the Basque Government must rectify its discriminatory policy in accessing a post in the administration, and we will not tire of claiming it. And that is why we in the People's Group are presenting this initiative again today for debate in this House. We believe, as I have said, that this lyrical policy is indispensable to guarantee the principle of equality, the dysentery, and the unjust. We therefore believe that it is necessary to remedy, as I said, this situation, which has led, as opposed to opposition, to the fact that many citizens are clearly frustrated with their options to gain employment in the public administration. Then we have the classic dysfunctions that occur and that also require a review of the system in terms of the final photograph that we have once held a process of staff selection in the Public Administration. The Euskera, as it is valued as it is valued in the merit phase, then precisely serves for the people who believe that knowledge of the Euskera, that level, to obtain the best positions on the approved scale, and then it is those who prefer to choose destinations, but, what a coincidence, then we go, for example, to the category of doctors, and when the destinations are chosen a people of Gipuzkoa is not chosen in which there can be a demand for Euskera: the three Basque capitals are chosen, in which the demand of the Euskera, of course, has nothing to do with other areas of our Autonomous Community. Or how squares profiled in many health centers, in different professional categories, are not covered. There is this anomaly which, of course, also attracts much attention and it would be advisable to correct it. And, of course, we believe that a greater demand for euskera has not led to greater use of euskera. Here we see something that I think is very sad for those of us who consider ourselves euskaldunes, we have the luxury of being able to know and speak this language from absolute freedom: that people, Basque citizens go to learn euskera to euskaltegi to accredit a profile, and then that title is kept in the drawer. Of course, we clearly believe that one thing is to accredit one title and another to make use of the euskera. And, if not, there is nothing more to go through many public administrations and see how people who in their day accredited a certain profile certainly today do not have a sufficient level in Basque and do not dominate Basque enough. I mentioned two agreements, two agreements that I think are important. Two agreements, one in 2009, when Patxi López was lehendakari (with the votes, by the way, of the People's Party), and we talked about showing our solidarity with all the workers in Osakidetza, who could have been discriminated against by the excessive evaluation of the Basque. This agreement also talked about making an appropriate assessment of Basque as a merit in future OPEs; we talked about the need to guarantee the principle of equal access to the public service; we also talked about Osakidetza's drawing up a report on the various OPE resolutions, how the places had been awarded, how those discriminations and anomalies to which I referred were to be addressed. And this time we have presented a new initiative. And what a coincidence, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that the initiative we have presented is based on the agreement reached by the Socialist Party, UPyD and the People's Party in the last parliamentary term. It's just that it's sloppy! The first two paragraphs talk of changing the rules for the allocation of language profiles for each post, of reviewing the euskera score in future OPEs in order to bring this knowledge into line with the socio-linguistic reality of each area, and the Basque Parliament also urges the Basque Government to take all necessary measures to ensure that principle of equal access to jobs and replacements. These two paragraphs, which you specifically signed on 26 May 2016, at the end of the parliamentary term, which you signed, I do not know whether because you were already in the election campaign or were preparing that famous video with which you delighted us in the election campaign, which clearly raised the change in linguistic policy, are the same two paragraphs that the People's Party is putting forward today. I wonder... I believe that, Mr Andueza, it is you who will lead the initiative, you will have the honour to lead this initiative by your group, and to have to defend today that contradictory position with the one defended in May and with which..., then if you want to review your electoral programme, but with the paragraphs that come in your electoral programme, which are also precisely those that you approved in that agreement, which are the ones that the People's Party brings today in that initiative. What's changed? Well, that's a very simple thing. Simply, that the Socialist Party has three seats in the Basque Government. But today in this rostrum you will have to explain that pirouette, and how you, an agreement that you sign with the People's Party and UPyD in May and that is brought to this House today, so you will vote against it. Today you will have to explain it. In short, we are putting forward this initiative. I have to say that we do not agree with the amendment proposed by EH Bildu, because, of course, it is a turning point more to linguistic policy in this Autonomous Community, with the requirement that everyone can attest to a level of Basque..., which is the requirement – better said – indispensable to occupy any position in the Administration. I believe that this compulsory monolingualism does not favour linguistic coexistence, it goes against the common sense of things, the sociolinguistic reality, and of course we believe ez diola mesederik egiten euskarari. And, on the other hand, the amendment that the Socialist Party has signed with the Basque Nationalist Party moves in that indefinition, but in the end what it intends to do is to follow as we are. And we regret that on this occasion the Socialist Party, for those things that it is now in hand with the Basque Nationalist Party and the tolls of being in a government and playing power in this Autonomous Community again, has made a pirouette (better said, a triple mortal leap) regarding the position defended in this House last May. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u40	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u41	Mme. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. The proposition which the Poptular Party has brought us to discuss today, independently of reality, beyond reality, indicates that the Popular Party has no knowledge of the rules of language established in the public offer, and that in respect of the superior class of language of the people. Or even when he acts with a variety of language, he really sees them in a way of trouble and hindrance, and he probably would live in a single-ling community. Of course, it's more Spanish, isn't it, Mrs Garrido? Now we understand better when the Popular Party says that the eulogy is the treasure of all of us. You're really looking for a treasure to be like a beauty in a museum, but nobody can use it in everyday life. And this is clearly seen in your proposition. But we won't deny that you're consistent. With your blind Spanish, backward, uncorruptive nationalist, it's understandable that he's not a young man... I'm sorry, the impatience of other languages which are not imperialists, and the diversity of language makes you uneasy. The only thing you can do is see the policies you encourage, but I just want to ask you for a favor, because you say it too and say it every time you get your word: I'd like to ask you, please don't tell me again that it's a language all of us together, and that it can't be used for parties, please, don't say it again. Your law is full of lies and manipulations. The first and second point is to come from the hands of a member of the legislature who has been in this house for years to consider the rest as silly. What I only expect is that governments should act with some head and sense, and not fall into the nets of divisional discussions which the national sects of Spain seek to promote. I mean, don't open controversy with language perfile for a step forward. I'm asking you to spell out the Public Administration that guarantees the rights of citizens. We don't have a problem checking language reports, we don't have a problem, but we're not ready to step back, and we're not ready to use that revision for language, to step back in the normalization of the cradle. Much less when we are under conditions at present, in the right state of society, in order to make ourselves firm when we are perfect. We have two official languages in EAE, so I want to know which is the problem with erosco. What's the problem with Euskar, Mrs Garrido? No one dissects on account of the eucalyptus at the time of entering the EAE Administration, because no one is duty, and youth is. The Basque is not on the same level as the young man, on the contrary, in spite of the fact that the state which our community has given itself must be in front of the young man. 40 years ago, when the Basque Administration was founded, the social situation was different, and we understood, we understood. Now the social situation is different, it has nothing to do with the present, and it's just to observe the facts. And the eucalyp should be in front of the young man. And now, when public administration is faced with a change of generation, we should really have the strategic approach to advance, really to make sure that the administration is a Basque, not just from the language view, even from economics, but even from the social, we'd save a lot of money. Public money, everybody's money, we could use it efficiently. But what we see is that the party who maintain the government is trying to answer this malicious discussion, and the government is more concerned about it than we are really concerned about the normal progress of the battle. And this, the disputes we had last week show us, is nothing but to see what happened in the discussion of the profession, what happened in the discussion of the edge, what happened about the persistence of learning, and what we see. So please don't jump into the nets of the discussions that the nationalistic Party wants to open. I think it's a shame to put an example in Valencia. The government of a change in Valentia has begun to take very interesting steps, to normalize the valegancy in the Administration, and we would like to see more of the Social Party's Social Party and the normalized police of the language that is being pushed into it. Ximo Puig, President of Valentia, has been with Urkullu this week, which seems to have convinced him about the coupe. I don't know what the president of Valentia has been trying to make the most daring language policy for the Uukullu. That's what we don't know. What's going on in Valencia? I'll explain it briefly. The new government is returning to valence for many years, and to become second-rate. The Government has just assumed the first language of the Administration from a process higher down below, and its criteria for the use of valegancy have been adopted by the Government. We'd have an EAE for a few days and we'd have a look at it. We have to note that the people in Valentia are back to the 49th, and that there are areas of one word, that is to say, of the young people who are speaking, but they have understood the administration of it as normal and natural, and have admitted that it is necessary to know how to work in the Administration. And I'm not saying that they are more advanced in language-normalization than we are, but what I'm saying is that they're acting more boldly in the normalization of language, and that we too have something to learn and learn. And, in conclusion, how would you like to take the same suggestion that the Popular Party presented, which the Popular Party presented, if we were to present it to the young man? Would that be normal to you? I don't know, think a little, think about it. Eta irakurriko said lehenengo bi puntuak, bathed buelta emanda, gastelerari lotuta. Lehenengo points out: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to rectify the unjust and discriminatory linguistic policy of demanding the knowledge of the Spanish as an indispensable requirement for public employment". Buelta emits, zeren age gastellera era, biak dira hizkuntza ofizialak, koofizialak. Bigarrena: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to modify the criteria for access to job offers, so that the knowledge of the Spanish is not prioritized on technical training and experience". Zer pentsatuk zenukete, guk proposeen hori aurkeztuko bagenu? Zer pentsatuk zenukete? Bada, Pentsatu Alderdi Popularra zer egiten ari den euskararekin, zer egiten ari den. And, to finish, I thought, Mrs Garridio, because, when I had read your argument, you have left me to wonder and wonder, that in the previous legislation the discussion of the good physician or of the Basque doctor was passed. Mr. Darpón saw it at once, and he saw it at once, and overcome it, that the rights of language to be a good physician must also be guaranteed, and that to give them a proper health service, we ought to take care of all the rights of the people. Mrs Garrido, like me, was a member of that commission. Didn't you study? Weren't you capable of learning and of overcoming that discussion? Well, just apply it a little, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Basque Socialists, I say in every respect, are favorable to the normalization of the Eupka. We agreed to normalize the Basque Act because we worked a great deal in this law, and from that point we participated in all the steps that have been taken for normalization. We support the right of the Basque society to live on. But besides this, we are even more favorable to the consistency of the social and lyrical rights. Socialists defend linguistic freedom, and that is as simple as every speaker deciding in which language he or she wants to communicate, no more or less. No citizen may be deprived of the freedom to use the language in which he or she wishes to communicate, Bai Basqueraz, Bai Erdaraz, nor can any citizen impose on another in which language he or she should communicate. Here there is no obligation to use a language in the field of relations between private subjects. Another thing is in the relationship between the private subject and the public administration. Nor can language rights be conceived as an absolute in a society that is supposed to be plural and open. We understand that it is the institutions responsible for the protection and protection of linguistic rights and the promotion of the use of Basque. I was talking about reconciling rights at the beginning of my speech, a reconciliation of rights that must be accompanied by the maximum effectiveness in the use of public resources, but also by equal opportunities. All citizens must have the opportunity to access the public service; therefore, we believe that it is essential to adapt linguistic profiles to the changing social and socio-linguistic reality of each area of Euskadi. And for what? Very simple: on the one hand, to guarantee those linguistic rights of which I spoke at the beginning, and on the other hand, to ensure that any citizen can be served in the language he or she chooses when he or she comes to a public service. But to do so rationally and by solving the dysfunctions that have occurred in the implementation of the different profiles required, if in fact there have been. That is why we proposed and proposed something as simple as a revision of linguistic profiles in the Administration; without previous judgments, as some wanted to make believe, with sincerity, proposing in some way that they be reviewed from above, calmly, as I said, without previously thinking that these profiles should be lowered or should be reviewed upwards. Simply and simply, a sincere, objective review to determine whether or not these profiles are in line with citizens' demands, needs or priorities regarding their use and demands. A profound, honest revision, in the places necessary to support, and in those which are not needed, apply this preference, or apply it so far as it is necessary. As soon as possible, as I said. And according to this revision, apply the profile required according to the duties of each post: prioritys, written, verbal, or both applied. Let's do this revision and then the future. Then we'll see what we have to do on this revision. Mrs. Garrido told me that I would have to explain the pirouette we made. You asked me to explain. Well, since you've put on that maternal instinct, I'm going to put on like I used to with my mother when I was late home and I had to explain it to her. Because it is as simple as saying that we have not changed our electoral proposal and the proposal that is incorporated into the government program. Another thing is that you, within your interpretations, within the ghosts that come after you, you have thought that we were hitting, hitting your positions, when you really weren't. And we are saying that we need to review the language profile requirements. Review them, not lower them, which is very different. They will have to be lowered if you really notice that, for example, in a road cleaning station it is disproportionate to require a certain euskera profile, or even to require the euskera profile. But neither are we going to have any complex to ask for the euskera profile to be raised when it really needs to be raised and that profile is absolutely insufficient in view of the socio-linguistic reality or the administrative position that this official is occupying. So clear and so simple. And it is perfectly consistent with what was presented at the time, with what we were carrying in our government program and with what we have presented today. No more, no less. Another thing is that you want us to align in your positions, and another thing is that you want to think that we were aligned with your positions, and that's not the case. You are saying to eliminate the euskera requirement, and we say no. We are saying that the use of Basque must be guaranteed; that all citizens of this country have the right to address the Administration in the language they choose, all the right to be cared for, and we are defending it and we will defend it to the end. Now, we believe that there are positions in the Administration that do not have direct contact with the citizen, because, that they may not require profile, or that there are others that have direct contact with the citizens but that perhaps they should have a priority, for example, in the oral solvency of that person, or in writing, depending on how it communicates with the citizens. Just plain and plain. It's as simple as that. Anyway, Mrs. Ubera said we had to take many examples from fellow Ximo Puig. I'm going to make a correction: before Mr. Puig was with the lehendakari Urkullu, he was previously with our secretary general, Idoia Mendia, who probably had much more ability to convince him, on the issue of ideological, political closeness... at last. But, in any case, I will also tell you something else: in the Valencian Community, unfortunately, they have suffered a linguistic policy which I believe has nothing to do with what we have had here, eh! Because in the Valencian Community it will recognize me that for many years the government of the People's Party has absolutely never united the Valencian. And I can assure you that I know very, very well the reality of the Valencian Community, and not the one that is most attached to the beaches, eh! The one inside. And I know what the sociolinguistic reality is. I also say one thing: if I am going to buy the bread or make a message, or address any official of the Valencian Community, I think, at last, perhaps with some difficulty, but without having any idea of Valencian I would probably understand them, which would probably not happen the other way around. But, well, that's another totally different topic. But, I say to you, I am fortunately glad that you acknowledge that it was a socialist like Ximo Puig who set foot on the wall with the linguistic policies that the People's Party government was previously developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians represent the team. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Good morning, everyone. I didn't get all the speech out of the Iresor and now I'm going to have to try to use the new technology. We will show that in general those who access a job in the Administration after overcoming an opposition do so not because of the Basque, but because of their professional skills, experience, courses and languages, including the Basque. And being Basque is a guarantee of the protection of the linguistic rights of Basques and Basques, and it ensures a better public service. Euskera is a matter of quality and dignity. An administration that values itself to be a public service is due to people, that is, it owes good service to its people. Euskera is a higher quality for the citizenry and is a more quality for the Basque official, for the Basque public employee, because it means respect, which is a value of return and return (respect of the administration to his people, and of the people to his administration), and a sense of belonging. In short, the euskera is a worthy and good public service signal. Certainly, it is time to treat with respect all citizens who, with remarkable effort on their part, manage to enter the Administration. It is time to stop using euskera as a bold weapon and put it in its proper place, treating it as an official language; a language which, despite its legal equality status, as has been said here, with regard to Spanish, needs special protection in order to guarantee its true social equality. And all this I say in Spanish with a Basque accent, and to a great honor. Now I'm going to speak in Basque, not with Catalan accent, which I don't know, and much less with Spanish accent, which you don't need, because Basque has its own accent, with the particular intonation of each place. At times and without interruption we have become accustomed to bring in the Chamber the popular supporters of this Chamber, who, as Mrs Garrido has once said, accompanied Mr. Maniro, who is not now. In Popul's opinion, the value given to eruption during the fun of fun brings nothing but dissemination and decoration in the results, and that's the crucial thing when you get a square. That's why we want to clear up a couple of things. On the one hand, our fellow-citizens have a right to communicate themselves in two official languages, at any time, to the administration of any administration, and this administration ought to respect this choice, so that, according to our legislation, the right and the administration are the duty of the people. On the other hand, we are clearly indicated by so-involuntistic data, and we are no doubt going to a more eloquent society, which are the youngest. That's why it's logical to make fun of you when you get the strength to guarantee the duty of your work-in-law or the duty of your language. What the people want is to be more efficient, more modern and closer, and we can hardly guarantee the language unless it's the most intimate connection between the person and the administration. I'll give you an example of membership: Among the patients and health workers we take thousands of them by language, we express our mines by language, we are taken care of by language, and more and more people want to be trained by it. And that is one of the characters which express the quality of service, a remarkable character of confidence between the doctor and the patient, I dare say. But as a song says, "Say a lie a thousand times over, repeat it in words, and soon see it come true." That's what the hoodlums want with the proposal, because it's not true that without euphorum you can get to a government station, because the movie is 50 percent of 30 percent, like 38%. Besides, the workers of the administration are supposed to remain under the roof, beyond the roof, that is to say, the techo de clarital. You say that over and over again, but you forget with a detail, and is that in all these years the Administration has put plans in the hands of these workers' hands for the ethivabrations, and the efforts of each and every one of them to receive the training necessary, and that many have acquired the popular profession of language, haven't they? Thanks to this share of effort, a third of the workers of the administration have succeeded in overcoming their language. Then in cases which are not necessary, there is a rating of merit, another subject which the population condemns, and you know that the decrees are strictly observed. There are data that can break once and for all the false dichotomy that some are committed to spreading (especially the popular ones), between good professionals excluded by their lack of Basque knowledge, and bad professionals who have obtained their position thanks to this language. How have the merits been assessed in the latest OPEs? Language profile 1 has not been rated; language profile 2 has been rated between 5 and 7,5 %, although the law says it can be rated up to 10 %; profile 3 has been rated between 10 and 11 %, and can be rated up to 20 %; profile 4 has been rated between 15 and 17 %, and the law says it can be rated up to 20 %. I have here data from the 2011 mini-OPE of the Basque Government, oppositions for administrative, auxiliary and subordinates. Because the data you have given, Mrs Garrido, have been very vague and undefined; you have not made them concrete. Well, I have the 2011 OPE here. In these three bodies (administrative, auxiliary and junior) the euskera assessment ranges between 5 and 10 %, while other merits are between 20 and 30 %. Even in the body of subalterns and auxiliaries the sum of titles (informatics and other languages) is valued more than the knowledge of the euskera. Still, there is a truth that shows the data: in the opposition, those who get the first positions are the best and the best, and these men and women, the best Basque officials, are Basques, know Basques. And let's give some examples. Family doctors. The latest data available to us, which have been able to change in the final decision, indicate that in the opposition for family doctors, of the first 100 classified after the specific written examination, 71 (of 100, 71) credited the corresponding linguistic profile, eight credited a lower profile, while 21 did not believe any knowledge. Let's look at the year 2008, opposition from the Basque Government to administrative: of the 37 people who got a place in the administrative group, 36 would have got it even if the Basque had not been valued. Of 37, 36, leaving the euskera exam aside, they would have made it. In the same opposition we see the group of administrative assistants: of 167 people who have obtained a place, in 97% of the cases there would be no change if the Basque was not valued. Of 167, 97 %. They and they too are the best, and they also know Basque. And on the subaltern list, one more time. Let us choose the first 155 classified and make the simulation that the euskera has not been valued; well, of 155, only in eight cases there would have been a change of title. In 95 % of cases, therefore, there would have been no change in the accreditation of Basque knowledge. But what happens is that the best know Basque. That's why they're the best, too. So, what are the first places of opposition? The best, and the best ones, show one thing that they know about it, that they work for themselves, that they can get what they want, that's what they want, and that they can give you a decent service, just like people deserve. I'm sorry, I have to check if I had to have it printed more... No, that was all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing round the teams that don't run, together representing Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u47	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. First of all, it must be said that it's very dull with this theme. To-day, again, we are discussing my proposition on the eucalyptus, and come to discuss this legislature, unfortunately, because some of them show that they do not yet understand the situation in which we are living, and according to all the experts, the lisistic state of the euca. It's called Diglosis. Diglosis, aim, you can aim if you like, and look at what this means. The use of the eucalyptus in political games, which the Popular Party does. They are not compatible to say, as the Poptular party does in this proposition, that the inheritance of the rest is the inheritance of the people, and that in the next paragraph, it is not compatible with them. Could it be understandable if you're going to be in the bar? Perhaps in a tavern, in a dispute, but here we are asked to have serious discussions, and for us, the reconciliation is a serious matter, because we believe that our cultural domain must be protected. It is plain, on the other hand, that the rights of some citizens are not yet met with in some parts of the administration. We all know what the situation is, as we know, that language policies which we have hitherto developed have been insufficient (I shall hereafter speak of it). This proposition, then, as well as that of the Pompulian party, does not add anything to this dispute, but rather seeks to excite suspicion among the people, which we shall never consent to. I had prepared a small exercise in which I replaced English with Basque in a paragraph of the proposal, but Mrs Ubera has already done something similar. And I was allowed to resort to a little change in the context of the justification of this GNP so that we can appreciate the ridiculousness of it, the ridiculousness of the proposal, and the place where the People's Party is placed in this debate, in which all parties must bet that language rights, access to public service and coexistence in both languages are the priority objectives. As I have said before, language policy has not fulfilled all its ends, and it must be said that the moment of reflection has come, even now. and let us say that what we need is more means. We have already said that we are in favour of a technical review of language profiles, which is not only in line with the socio-linguistic reality, but also in the field of the communicative competences required for the development of the various activities and functions. The aim is to make the users of the Administration feel cared for in Basque with guarantees, while at the same time that the workers can develop their language skills with a policy of incentives and with the means necessary to promote their professional career, of course. That is to say, we need more resources than the Government currently allocates – we said in the budget debate – to improve in this area. And those responsible for the lack of resources allocated to the Euskera are the parties that approved the budgets in this House, which fill the mouth with statements in favour of the Euskera but who do absolutely nothing to combat this lack of resources that leads us to stay in a grey area (neither forward nor behind) as regards the normalization of the Euskera. And, Mrs. Garrido, you said... Well, I wanted to write you down, the sociolinguistic reality, as you know, changes. This reality cannot be presented here, in a speech, as a fixed photo, and less with regard to the process of normalization of the euskera, and of course it cannot be used to charge against it, against the language and against the process of normalization. You say it's wrong for you to value euskera more than other formations. Isn't Basque training? Doesn't it seem like a demanding training to ask a person, in the public administration, to have a PL2 or EGA, in the face of a professional career? In other words, if you ask yourself to believe at least one bilingual capacity, is that not training? Evidently you are underestimating the euskera and its learning, no doubt. I think you see ghosts where there are no ghosts. Surely the discomfort of those opponents you have spoken of has more to do with the fact that not enough places are called, something in which your party also has much to do with, or that the deadlines are not adequate, or that the fears that are presented are presented late and bad. Perhaps the discomfort of the opponents has more to do with that than with the requirements on the Basque. And, too, I'd like to give Mrs. Greatland a couple of notes. It is very well to boast of our language, of course, and very well enough to defend our inheritance, and defend our rights in language; but to defend the rights of language, as I have said before, there is also material difference, and this material has two senses to advance the process of financing and more ordinary resourceization. And here in the budgets where your party has been tested, that doesn't appear, at least in our opinion, there's not much resources, or there's no need to go forward in the process of normalization. Well, apart from all that I have described, we, of course, will vote against the project of the Populative Party, and we would be grateful to the Poptular not to use it again in his political and identical struggles. And if he's having trouble with this, let him negotiate this in his next agreement with the Jest Party of the Eucus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u48	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing the answer round, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u49	Well, I'm going to start with you. I don't know what your first interference is about, but I don't understand. He's boring. Well, you'll be bored in this law, because I tell you, I'll bring back this debate in a few months. What I have said here is what takes place in reality, and I don't know whether your party looks at the euscal society or not. You said that Fuera de lugar is real, that's what I'd tell you. Ms. Ubera. When we talk about the Basque problem, is the use of the eucalyptus some of you do? And again shall I repeat: 'tis the inheritance of all the rest, a resource that unites us all to the rest. It is an obstacle to the divisional discourse you make, and the lyrical politics that are made by some. That's the obvious obstacle to euphora! Aurrerapausoak. Aurrerapauso bat from...? Is it an advance that people, that many citizens are going to learn Basque to the Basquetegis – and I know that theme – to accredit a title to present themselves to an opposition, and that then that title is kept in a drawer, and, as has happened to that parliamentarian, to this citizen, she is addressed to officials who are supposed to have the title of EGA taken out long ago, I don't know how long, and now they are not able to have a conversation in Basque? That's being balanced, that's promoting the Basque...? That is, by requiring greater linguistic profiles in the Administration are we really helping the Basque to promote its use, the use of the Basque? You must have had her hausnarketa ezinbastekoa. I'm going to start with the Jeltza Party, then follow the Social Party. In any kind of autonomy community, in our Autonomy Er member, we have two official languages, and we have to guarantee rights. I'll give you an example. I went yesterday – I'm going to set a personal example –..., I went to Hacienda yesterday to pick up the stickers, the labels to make the rental declaration. There were a number of posts, I think there were four windows, and in one it was attended to in Basque, eta ipintzen zen argi eta garbi "Nik euskara ebiltzen dut". Eta nik wasbaki did not deny the euskarasun euskraz hitz egyptea. So I was around... because there were a lot of people, but obviously, as we were in a line parallel to the counter, because, although the conversations weren't exactly heard, one could distinguish... that is, one could distinguish perfectly the language in which one went to the Administration. In those thirty minutes, the only person who went to the administration in Basque, in the Alavesa Hacienda, was me. Probably over the morning they'd be more people, but they were making sure that I... I could have run in Spanish, but I chose to run in Basque, and my right to run in Basque was guaranteed! But that did not mean that all the officials who were in all the windows in Álava had to know Basque. Surely if we were in Gipuzkoa, or in Oiartzun, or in Donostia, for, instead of one, there were two, or three... Ez Dakit. Baina nire eskubidea, Basqueraz hitz egiteko eskubidea, bermatu egin zen, inolako zalantzarik gabe, eta horrek ez du esan nahi hor zeuden guztiok euskara eabili behar zutela, Basqueraz jakin behar zutela. Nik you went adibideak argi eta garbi azaltzen duela daukagun egoera. Man, I will not be told, and I will repeat the example, that the system works well, when (I have quoted the example; I was told by the PNV spokesman that I have not cited examples)..., when for 419 posts in the Administration, of all the candidates who present themselves, 36 % accredits the level of Basque, but it is then that when those 419 posts in that call are already occupied, those who accredit the level of Basque, or those who already know Basque, are 92%. Tell me how that percentage goes up in that disproportionate way! Tell me if this data does not mean that Basque is a determinant in accessing a post in the public administration, as required in relation to other merits. By referring to the Socialist Party – and I am finishing, Madam President – I do not know what counter-performance the Socialist Party put in negotiating its participation in the government. Of course, the video they took in the campaign didn't put it on the table, that video is on the safe side. The rewards would be others, but, of course, that video they made throughout the campaign, and with which we were delighted throughout the campaign, no. And to put an end to Mr Andueza, I do not know why he does not vote in favour of the People's Party proposal today! If I've taught him before! But if it's identical to the one you approved with us on May 26th, a year ago! But it's the same! If, moreover, what I have deliberately done is bring the same proposal, which, by the way, is what the People's Party systematically brings all the legislatures, because linguistic policy does not change! And more, Mr. Andueza...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u50	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u51	Reduction of the requirements of the Basque language in the Administration, because it is an obstacle; a review of the requirements of the Basque language; that language cannot be an element of discrimination in access to the Administration; ensuring that freedom and equality go hand in hand. All these things are what Idoia Mendia said in the last election campaign and what the People's Party is holding here today. Here those who have changed, and you will have to explain why, it is you. And if not, vote on the proposal of the People's Party, which is the one you voted on last May.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u52	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u53	It's as if we who want the euscal administration were to argue that we have to justify it. What we are trying to use to rest, what we want to do in the normalization of resistance, to justify, to justify, to argue, and to defend ourselves from this complexity. And often I am very sorry that the party that supports the Government and that the party in the government is constantly justified by it. What the hell? What the hell? We live in the Basque Country, we're Basque, we're like Spanish euccany. And further on, euska is a natural language. Here we must be a Basque administration to ensure the freedom and rights of all, the freedom which is so proclaimed. Without any complexity, and roses, we need a Basque Administration here, which is what we need to develop politics. No more, not less. And at the very end of youth, the legislation, the legislation which we have given ourselves, the state of Guernica, which you so much proclaim, says so. So, what complexity? What are we doing? And what we can't do is fall into the nets of that malicious controversy that Spanish nationalists want to open. No. We have to go straight and straight and forward. For here it is vain to put the arguments on the table, they are of no use. No one is interested in arguments. And we have arguments, right? We have arguments beginning from this house. All of us here have not the same liberty to work in whatever language we please. Some of them did, others didn't, others didn't. And here we talk a lot about life, multiplicity... Lady Garrido also gives us lessons. What life? What variety? You are the first to reject this plurality, which, when it is the popular party, rejects this variety and this life, by encouraging the one-sidedness. I said on the board the other day: Everyone can't climb Everest, everybody can't participate in the Behobi race. Everyone can't have access to all jobs. Well, we have to make it clear here that whoever wants to work in public administration has to perform certain conditions, whether he likes it or doesn't like it. If you fulfill the conditions, and if you don't, each must have a proper position for him. And that's all there is. It's very simple, but we can't be involved in this malicious discussion. And there are thousands of examples that happen in the diary. Look, it happened on Twitter, in Durango, on the 8th of May: "Last night, the three-year-old child had been brought to the hospitals at Durang. "Ought me solo sabe ees? Pues tenemos un problem." That's what happens now, and it's happened to me personally, not even to go to my son and look him in the face. One word of obstinacy, another of youth. And one thing is language, but education is another thing. I'm just drinking. And we may talk a great deal, and we may give arguments, but I am already weary of having no reason to listen to arguments, and that I am obliged to justify myself, because I have decided to speak and to live in the quiet. Here, I and we are going to work for the administration of the administration, we all talk about youth, we talk about it, everyone can guarantee his rights, we can actually live in the freedom you proclaim. And what I would like to say to the government is that if you are really ready to take strong steps in the normalization of the cradle, we will be ready to accompany you, not from the maximalism, but not from the minimalism, to continue the normalization of the resistance, and to set up effective policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u55	I'll start with Mr Martínez. I may be inclined to agree with you, that these subjects sometimes become tiresome in full seriousness; for once and for all, when things are brought together in the same terms, we are always in the same way. You said we don't do anything on this subject, and I don't agree, I don't agree. We were in agreement with the 82nd, and since then all the great progress that has been made on this issue has also had socialists as protagonists. I invite you, once you have entered the field of politics, to also participate, as we have participated for more than thirty years, in this matter. For the time being, I am going to tell you that in almost half a year since we have been in the legislature, there has not been much effort to pay attention to this issue, because I believe that initiatives in this area have presented very little. For example, I cannot say the same for Mrs Ubera, who, not just out of conviction, but in her day to day, shows concern and puts proposals on the table, which will have greater echo, greater success, or greater or lesser agreement, but does so. I therefore invite you to present initiatives from now on. We, as an internationalist party, have very few complexes with these issues. Therefore, we will always be willing to work for the benefit of any language, minority or less minority. Therefore, if the true spirit is to work for the benefit of the Basque, Basqueraren alde Egyptian bada helburu, sozialistak hor izango gara. Inposatzea baldin bada hellburua, gurekin ez kontatu, éta ez diot zuen aldetik Bakarrik, batez ére, Garrido andreak esan duenaren Arabica esaten doubelako. I believe that, in the end, I have made the comparison, Mrs Ubera, of the right that any Basque citizen may have to enter to work in the Administration, to participate in the Behobia, in addition to a frivolity seems to me to be an absolute majesty. I know you have a lot more level, a lot more capacity and a lot more arguments to come up with. [[Berber]] Well, whatever these gentlemen do... but don't get in the game of it. Come here and give us more serious examples than that, because that, first of all, does not conform to reality, and I tell you that it is not at its political level, that it seems to me like a majaderia. I'm telling you honestly, uh, because it seems to me that... Let's be serious about this, too. In this, too. Mrs. Garrido, Jo, I love it when you bring this House love competitions of this kind. Because this has been a competition of... Okay, well, you're in love with the Euskera. Well, a big hug! Well, welcome! Welcome, eskerrik asko, ongi etorri, bear wave, primen, bikain, ederto... But don't come and frivolize with these issues. What do you want, for us to go by your hand? Well, I'm telling you, no. That I'm telling you no. And if you want to think that what we signed at the time is what you have argued to us here, I repeat that you are very wrong, that was not that. That I told you, no. No way! If you agree with us that we need to review the euskera profiles, which we share with these gentlemen, we, the Government, which is in agreement, summarise. It's okay! We have a big difference from you, look, we have a very important difference from you: that we know how to evolve, and we also have the ability to evolve. And we understand that this debate is perfectly over now, and that it was necessary to move on to the facts. And the facts were, in short, that without any kind of complex, and without any kind of prior trial, you can review the profiles. And I've told you before, and I'll tell you again, and that's what the video meant, the campaign that you, raccas, raccas, raccas, bring us here, that the only thing we asked for was to be reviewed, without making previous judgments. Not to eliminate profiles. First, to guarantee the use of Basque, to guarantee the right of Basque citizens to be served in Basque. Secondly, to guarantee the right of all citizens of this Autonomous Community to have access to a post in the civil service. And third, adjust them. Why? Because in some cases the profile that is required can be disproportionate, eye, and in others not, and in others equal is scarce, eh! We still have to demand more profile! And we're not going to have any complex, but I'm convinced that if we bring a case like the last one I just mentioned you probably say no, but we'll say yes. Therefore, in the end, I invite you, as we Socialists continually do, to evolve, which is now the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u57	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. For me, the peace is not a legacy, it is not a treasure. For me, the daily breathing is euphorium. Mrs. Ubera, I told you that last week sociolinguistic development takes place gradually. You've brought a Valentia model here as a model, but before Valencia, we started before you and maybe they have something to learn from us. Of course, we must all learn from everyone here. I told you that our party has a clear purpose, that we've been working for 30 years, that we've put a clean and objective tools on it, and that if we need to create new things, we're going to create new ones, and we're going to do a constant, respectful, constant work. For the past 30 years, the town has been communicative and educating and educating jobs. Then the report was sent to the political development of language, and the heir of the department is sent out, and it is not a bonder, but, on the other hand, they perform it. Everything you do is to make it better. It's been 30 years since the Language Scout plan, and it's gonna have something to do with it, right? Thus, in the preceding law, not after this popular video, but in the previous law, the language-in-law began to study the 38,000 jobs of these administrations. Hence they are excluded from the Border, Osarance, Education, and Justice, because they have their plans. Now, in what the technicians have observed to complete the study of these jobs, no remarkable dysfunction has been proved, at least, in order to make a process which has been taking so many different institutions after so many years. The trial was originally given in the preceding law, as I have already observed, and it was brought to this legislature, and even to Hakobara (The Codination Committee of the Public Administration on Language is Hakoba), and it was decided that Hakoban should enter the work-place, in order to decide accurately what kind of profile each job was concerned. For that, they're working with the New York Public Function. They will describe and improve their duties and occupations. All these will be considered by communication, as well as by the undertakings which are in the frame of the European languages, and thus the profile of each station will be determined. The object is to ask everyone for the same profile, if they are the same duties. That's the end of it. As I have said, the Board of Education has been excluded from this process, for the profile has the greatest obligation to verify it, because those who choose most of the eucalyptic patterns are the parents of our country. In any case, the model and methodology of setting profiles has certainly been exemplary. That's proven, and that's what the government's going to do. The chief physician said it at the Cultura Committee, Mrs. Ubera. He said: "Euscara needs to be a service language in communication with the citizen, in communication between the administrative language and the administration of the work-language administration." "The equality of choice is absolutely necessary for our co-operation, and we must try and do five for the weakest language in our case." For the Basques, as in football, being a team, each of them will give a touch to the language policy, but it will continue. In order to win the fructs and societies, not the eucalyptus and this village to dig the goal. To do the impossible, we need not play the Minimalist policies, nor to play the policy with the maximists. I agree with that, Mrs. Ubera. It's time to take euca for official languages, Mrs Garrido, not for votes. As a colleague told me, if you were a civil servant, Mrs Garrido, and I would be able to make peace with you. But if that official were the leader of your team, even if he was a Catalan accent, I couldn't help him. What would be excluded in that case, then?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Together represent Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u59	Ez naiz asko sartuko, zeren eta Garrido andereri dada esan diugu hemen pentsatzen duguna. I have already told you, Mrs Garrido, what we think about it, but, well, you insist on coming here and, even in a somewhat disrespectful way, to put forward an initiative that has no use and whose sole objective is to feed your speech, which is identity and exclusion. That is the objective of this initiative; that initiative which you yourself have admitted will bring repeatedly and which you have been bringing repeatedly for many years. Our commitment in this case and with this issue is to come and try to be useful to the citizenry, and try to meet the demands that the collectives demand. In this case, our commitment is summed up in collaborating and working to ensure that the right that many citizens demand to be cared for in which is their language (and which is my language as well), the Basque language, but with the public administration is fulfilled. A right that must be guaranteed and that is currently not guaranteed. A service that is not guaranteed and that, as an official language it is, we have to guarantee. Therefore, please, let us not bring this debate back here, a debate that is artificial, a debate that, as much as you insist that it is reality, is not. It is a debate that you try to impose before reality, placing you very far off the board of Basque society. And please do not waste the time of all or the resources of the citizenry to hold artificial debates of this kind. And Mr. Andueza. I didn't mean your party at any time. I understand you've given up on that for some reason. But, still, I am glad that you pay attention to the work we are doing on the Euskera and this issue. It is not our goal to get headlines, but to be useful, and sometimes initiatives are not as quiet, as he has said, they do not have so much travel, but, of course, our commitment and our conviction is to be at the service of civil society, at the service of the demands that these people and these collectives make on what the normalization of the Basque language entails, of the resources that the Basque language requires in our society and in our budgets, and of the rights that must be demanded and that at the moment are not guaranteed in the public administration. And that's what we came here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u60	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 64; white, 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u61	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 16; opponents, 46; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u62	So it's not accepted. And finally, Eucabertians and Sociaists of Eukalia will vote for the corrections proposed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 25; the whites are 0; the abstations are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u63	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Phum up the other bill of parlamentary groups, the improvement of education by the Organic Law (LOMCE) and the interruption of "realidas on New York 2020." Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u64	In South Euscala, conditions are met, in theory at least, to cancel, as far as LOMCE's set, the external investigations, the realidas...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u66	I mean, in theory, because the whole unit of education is against it, and most of these parties, we are against it, at least, in theory, "Trance," but what we see in practice is that it is not so with the theory that practice has little to see, and even if it is a unit of education, there is no such union between parties. We see that EAJ, PSE, and Popular Party are in favour of foreign investigations, and consequently have become the most loyal and true knights of Wert and LOMCE. Perena's logical, that's logical. The EAJrene, also, is logical, because they have been able to copy eescal LAMCE, which, after all, is a copy of LOMCE, which is called the New One, though it does not agree with their theoretical discourse. But it must be confessed to EAJ that he is a teacher who hides him from dialectic, although this time Mrs. Uriart has become the best student in Wert. Upon my side, Mrs. Uriart has got what Wert has done in Spain: The contrary has in its community acquired complete opposition, and it has made everyone angry, and this is the case. Weert would be sure to put an excellent one on you, Mrs. Uriarte, at the end of the year. PSE's, incomprehensible, we don't understand. Madame Ceela was the most passionate warrior in this house, this Chamber, against the New Hezier, and now you're applying Hezier to the Government. Hauteskunde-kanpainan ere, Hezkuntza Platformen Topaguneak alderdi guztioi galderak egin zizkigun, baita zuei ere, eta galdera zen: "Will you repeal the decrees of Heziberri referring to the evaluations?". Alderdi Sozialistaren were like, "Yes. From the first day we said that we disagreed with the change of the diagnostic tests that were being carried out in Euskadi, with full satisfaction, in the Primary Room and in the Second Room of ESO, for the assessments that LOMCE establishes in the Third Room of Primary and in the Sixth Room of Primary. We do not understand, nor do most of the educational community in Euskadi, that a diagnostic system that was working very well to apply the LOMCE mimetically, although it is proclaimed that it disagrees with it." Donde would say "digo" would be "Diego." A nice trite, EAJ, Popular Party, and the PSE, if it were not, unfortunately, students are the greatest losers and the losing of our education system. The terrible conditions of our union, the chaos we have with tremendous conditions, the disorder we have at this moment in the evaluation system, to solve our disorder, to interrupt, reflect, open a discussion, and really order it. I'm sure we'd get along, and you'd have some protection, Mrs. Uriart, you'd have our support. You'd really have the support of the educational team. And it seems to us that we have an excellent opportunity for this, because the educational unit expressed its attitude in a general and massive manner, its will. He stood up. He planned last year's study, and now the schools are planning, teachers, parents. I myself, in the last year's study, as the mother of a third-rate student, planned it. Where are we going? What do we want? What future do we want? It's the best thing, isn't it? Well, we think we have something to think about. And here, 236/2015 Decree, 237/2015 Decree, and 127/2015. We have conditions for abolishing the Decrees of the New Hecier; It may be a starting-point for us to really turn around. But what's hindering you, Mrs. Uriart? What's hindering us from doing that? We don't understand. Is there no political will? Or is it really at bottom that EAJ really shares the educational system of the Population Party, that is to say, a clausist, a mechanist, an Elerist? Do you share? If so, I am silent, and let every one pull on his own model. Eta gero, atzo aukera eduki nuen ikusteko Kupoan zer adostu duzuen, eta puntuetariko bat da "Participation of the Basque Country in European Social Fund allocations for the development of the Education Act. The actions for the implementation of the LOMCE will be co-financed by that fund, which will co-finance the costs at 50 %." Esaten arizara LOMCE aplikatuko duzula, ekintzez. Ja, ez hitzez: ekintzez; beraz, dena esanda dago. But we'd be grateful to this government to be clear about it. To be clear and not to tease others. What happened this year? What happened this year's college? When the Board of Education saw it last year, the opposition which was derived from the community of education has hitherto hitherto been ambiguous: Yes, but no, but yes, it didn't seem to apply. We also asked you a few written questions, Mrs. Uriart. We received answers; it was not clear to answer... but at the last moment, at the end of the course of the year, they were followed and communicated in silence to the schools for exams from day to day. That's what happened. I don't know, when the various agents are ready to deal with corsponsibility, care, I don't know what interferes with the Board of Education. Besides, even in Spain, the Spanish School Council has given a recommendation to the Ministry. And even the ministration has laxed the calendar of the LOMCE application through a royal decree, so there is no need to apply it, no need to apply it. Besides, the Spanish School Council admits itself that it has developed itself in different degrees in the State itself, and that it is perfectly agreed to give a change. Then we don't understand how we're going to work on LOMCE here in Erdon. Yes, with erosco label: New education. I don't know. I don't know whether you really think so, what you say so much, and we see more than ever need to make a deal. I don't know if you can do what you see from this line. And, look, this proposition we brought to the discussion today, you know, we registered in November, and I assure you, we thought there would be no need for this proposition to be brought to the discussion. We assumed a registered proposal, in view of the situation in the school community, the conditions, the circumstances, the circumstances, the circumstances in Spain, and we thought that the Board of Education, this government, would react, and that it would not, indeed, apply them. But we made a mistake. We're involved, and that's why we've brought him to the discussion at the last moment, seeing that you've sent him to school from one day to another to do these external examinations. But let us know that we will continue to plan the decrees of the New Testament, and that we will explain all the opposition to you, and hope that you will add them to this plan. We hope so. We hope so. And we really expect you to give us a deep and serious reflection about the currently active evaluation system. The terms are given. The conditions are given, better than ever. And don't look at us because we say it. Don't look at us. Look at the unit of education, look at different operatings. And put the medal on it. Give me the medal, but at least react. You're in time, just react. Please react. And at the end of my shift, we would like to announce my solidarity and the solidarity of the EH Union to all those who have come out here for the educational system of education, and who have come daily to work, and who have gone out into the streets these days to build among the whole educational systems which this people deserves. And so do you, Mrs. Uriart, you have room. Come on, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u68	Thank you, President. The non-legislative proposal that we are debating here today, on the proposal of EH Bildu, I honestly do not know whether to classify it as opportunistic, or perhaps it is a mere coincidence. At the very least, it is curious that today this initiative coincides with the educational strikes called by the unions, which took place on Tuesday 16 and which is called for next Tuesday 23rd. Because, apart from an improvement for teachers, the unions are calling for the abolition of LOMCE, and also the Basque curriculum, exactly the same as you are asking for today with this initiative. And, man, I just want to say, Mrs. Ubera, that hanging medallions is relatively easy. The difficult thing is to move the necessary path to achieving the aspiration to achieve a true Basque education law in this country. And that is what we would have to discuss and that is what we want to discuss. With this I do not want to remove the reason for your proposal, but neither am I, much less, encouraged that we have to talk when you want, about what you want and in the terms in which you want to put it, because that is not the way to go this way. We, you know perfectly well that we are absolutely against the Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality. First, because it is no improvement, and second, because it does not bring quality. The difference is that, while some of you a few decades ago were in other things, we were dedicating ourselves to laying the foundations of a public and quality education, in the same way that we did at the time, and in the same way that we are working to improve Basque public education and that we are going to continue to do so now. Let's keep working on it. Therefore, you cannot give us any lessons, under any circumstances, in defending public education, either in this country or in the whole of Spain, because I believe that we have demonstrated our commitment to education. It gives us the feeling that the Basque public school, as such – and I am speaking not of what is called the Basque school in general, but of the Basque public school – has gradually forgotten in this country. I hear in public statements many times about the Basque school, but very rarely about the Basque public school, and I think that is something we cannot afford. Because it is happening, it is obvious..., and I am not going to go into the war of figures on whether there has been more or less percentage of participation in mobilizations, but it is clear that there is a discontent, especially in the public network, and that we cannot go back to education what with so many years of work has been achieved over time in this area. And that remains today within the government, even if we do not have the education portfolio, a commitment of the socialists. That is why we propose an educational pact, which I know you share, which ends up being set up in a new Basque education law, with the broad consensus of all the educational agents who are part of this task. The current situation and all the specificities of Basque education must be taken into account, bearing in mind that there are now new demands and needs of a society that, like all, is constantly changing. Because we all know that we have a very specific educational system in this country, which we respect, but we still think, and we will not tire of insisting, that the public school must be the reference of the system, and, as the current legislation says, the rest (the private one, the concerted one) must be subsidiary of the public school, because we are talking from the administration. That we have been maintaining over the years, and we have worked on a continuity line in which we think we should continue. We don't apply to either LOMCE or Heziberri. You know that we have maintained deep discrepancies with what is called the Basque curriculum, and that we continue to maintain them at this time. And that we share the same Government does not mean that it shares and agrees with each and every one of the policies that each department implements. And here the councilwoman knows perfectly well, because we have not hidden it, that we have disagreements on the subject of Heziberri, as we have publicly also on the subject of LOMCE, but we are not willing to come here to roam around in the same circle, when in reality what we have to do is to move forward and improve, because there is a great deal of road to go. Because, while we and we are standing still, entertained in these very pleasant discussions, the others are moving forward (and Europe even further), and the distance we keep with them is getting bigger and bigger every day. If the LOMCE is not to be applied in this country, neither do we believe that those elements that are not mandatory should be developed, and we must avoid the perverse mechanisms that in the end only harm the quality of our system. Because what we will achieve, if not, is to hinder the academic years of students and put them on the wheels, when we are not here for that, but to try to offer a quality education. Because I suppose we will all agree, and we will have broad consensus, that the future of Euskadi is played in the real classrooms, in the classrooms of this country. Therefore, our proposal is to put public education at the head of the education system through a major educational pact, with the aim of structuring and strengthening the stability and quality of Basque education, moving towards excellence. A pact that overcomes the LOMCE, that leaves it behind. And among all of us, I believe that we should find a soil, which I believe exists, a great common soil to implement this great educational pact, which we hope will be done with the greatest possible consensus, because that form, that system, that of consensus, especially in education, is the only way to do real education, with public education as a trunk element and necessary for the development of a country. Because we know that education must be understood as an investment in the future, that it does, indeed, generate economic development and social welfare, and we know that investing in education is doing so in social cohesion and competitiveness. But it must also be done with guarantees. And I do not doubt the commitment of all of you, neither with education nor with the need for this educational pact, but I do ask for an effort of rationality and common sense to focus on this discussion. I understand that you want to politically shine the mobilizations, and if you can then take a picture with the summonses so much better, but it does not seem to me that this is the most important and fundamental problem that we have in this country, but to meet that demand, which exists, I recognize, in the education system, that concern and that discomfort that exists, and to try to remedy them. Therefore, we urge the Basque Government to develop an evaluation system that will truly enable us to verify the degree of acquisition of the basic competences provided for in the exit profile of pupils, in order to have a reliable, rigorous and continuous mechanism that provides information and objective data that will serve to make decisions that affect the improvement of the education system of our community, but with all the political parties in this House and with all the educational agents to reach the necessary consensus. And we know it's not easy, it's quite complicated, because to analyze the system output we'll probably also have to analyze the input, taking into account all the student profiles. But we have to move forward from our own reality. Finally, the most important thing we think is to think about the quality of our system, having as its axis – I know I am a pimp, but I think I must repeat it, because it is often forgotten in public and official speeches – Basque public education to achieve excellence and be competitive. To this end – and I conclude with this – the only solution, the solution that really answers the problems that education has, is to walk towards a new Basque law of education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u70	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It's obvious that we're not going to vote for the law that Collect proposes to us. What's the novel? It's just that a pedagogical project started in the previous law, and it's got three phases: First, to agree to one of the pedagogical frames, the second, to develop certain decrees, and to develop in each stage what curriculums are to be studied by the students in the development of those curriculums, is also done; and the third stage is that which is to begin, or to begin, the law of education. You're trying to tell me it's a series of novel LOMCE, Mrs. Ubera. We think it's just an effort to follow the proposal you've brought here today. "Say a lie a thousand times, repeat it in words, and soon see it come true." You said you registered in November, but at least it seems curious to me, as we said here, to enter the plenoon the week of the strike. We'll see what you're asking for in your proposal. In the first place, you ask that the Second Education should terminate at once and cancel the evaluations of the Batxiler cycle, (12-16 years), and that they do not exist. It is therefore difficult to cancel a thing which does not exist, a thing which has never been put forward in this country. We think you're going to be talking about what LUMCE's predicting, that is, you're talking about those radical high school and those rebalds to get titles from the Batxiler. It turns out that last November the Board of Education and other departments of the State had succeeded in denouncing those rebalds which LOMCE foresees to have been abandoned until he had obtained the education in the state class, and that this was made by decree of kingly law in December last year. And you know, what a written question you asked Mrs. Uriarte and Mrs. Greartar in the first paragraph says that in February. Thus the title of Batxilergo, that is to say, of all matter being exceeded, and the title of the Second Education of necessity being overcome by all matter, and in some cases determining the number of evaluations, may also pass through the infinite matter, as before. So the first point of your proposal has no meaning, because there is no longer a solution to the cycle. At the second point, what you're asking for is to cancel the evaluations of the novel, but in the New Hecie, there's no question of evaluation. What has been done within the education is the order to develop curriculums, the decrees to know how to develop first and second education and in high school or in high school. And to make these decrees in 2003 is the second phase of the process that the Education Department started inside the project, namely, the second phase of the novel, as I said at the beginning. And therefore, when these decrees were made known, as the Department of Education declared, these decrees have been the result and fruit of one's own project of education. And Ms. Uriarte said, that though LOMMCE vanishes, these decrees were made to continue to work, and I mean here that the government of the State had reformed these decrees; so it is hard to understand that these are the successions of LOMMCE, which Nikolazus call the succession of LOMMCE, and meanwhile the decree is rejected by the State Government. There's something going on here that doesn't understand. When it was revealed to the novel, the department plainly declared that this pattern did not start from nothing, that it took all the experience that had hitherto been received in itself, that is to say, eloquence, eloquence, new technology, co-operation, etc., and so on. The decrees which you have requested to abandon are expressly cited by the projects of the Basque curriculum, and the social and political agents of education agreed to do these projects at one time. This model of education was the foundation, and all these projects were adapted in proportion as society prospers. So the second point of your proposal has no real reason, because in Hecyon there is no evaluation treaty. And finally, what you ask at the third point is to discuss and discuss a great deal of deliberation and discussion with the agents of political and education, and this has never been rejected by the division, has never been denied by the division of fellowship, which has been the procedure which has been used in the preceding law. Have you forgotten the pedagogical education project and the consequence that the decrees were made with the intervention of most of the educationmakers? Forget it or don't you want to remember it? I will add, you know, that until the preceding legislation he has never had so many questions and opinions, and that he has accepted a series of educations and contributions. The chief physician himself had been with the operators, and had almost received 800 contributions, and most of them answered. Now it's not time to complain, it's not time to complain about the poor help you've brought in our education systems. You have not even assisted and attempted to match the most advanced proposal for education in this country with LOMCE. I say the best, because, unlike LOMCE, there are different concepts, very modern ones, such as education based on non-reproachments, professors' competitions, student's output profile, that is, when a child has finished his first education, the culture of evaluation. It's not all this in LOMCE, but you said it was a continuation of that, and you've been saying it like you're repeating it in that song. That's all: LOMCE is the new Hezier. We have clearly said it before and now: We are against LOMCE, so the three points of your proposal are bad sakes, three bad sakes to fail.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Representative of the population. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u72	Well, let's see, when we get this proposal from EH Bildu we wonder if we make any amendments, and we finally decided not to do it, because what you say here is to remove, remove, remove, remove... and present us with nothing we can agree on. We have also read the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, and we have not been able to join it because it is because it really does not talk about what we are talking about, what the EH Bildu group brings here, which is to talk about LOMCE and to talk about Heziberri. That's why we couldn't join her. But, already analyzing what EH Bildu brings us here, what we see is that the conception of the education presented by this group is very, very opposed to what we have. For starters, he describes the model as absolutely punitive and qualitative. I would like to say something: the excellence that I believe we all pursue needs to be validated. Here we are presented with a world where no one can be punished and, therefore, no one can be rewarded. And I'm going to tell you something: the possibility of a student's excellence being validated is done through tests where that person can demonstrate his or her ability to work; in addition to his or her own qualities, but above all his or her ability to work. The model presented here is a model where effort is useless. It is useless because it is not validated, and because it is not validated, it goes unnoticed. Therefore, it seems to us particularly serious for one reason, because we have always said, and I believe that we will all continue to agree, that education, among other purposes, has the purpose of social mobility. This morning we also heard Bildu's group talking about aberatsak, the rich. These are 20th-century terminologys that I still find difficult to understand that they are still being used today, but one of the purposes of education and the validation of excellence is to ensure, to ensure that the son or daughter – and I will use his terminology – of a poor man is not doomed to follow the steps of his parents, and to ensure that the son or daughter of rich parents does not have assurances that he will enjoy the same privileges. Social mobility, which is something I think we all have to look for, apart from winning the lotus, which is very difficult for everyone (I keep trying), but apart from winning the lotus, it is possible to validate excellence, to give opportunities to excellence. And then, of course, the model you present to us here says that any validation is "punishive." Forgive me: any validation is above all gratifying for excellence, because it can be demonstrated. That's part of it. That is to say, we do not agree at all with the picture you present. That does not mean that the person, student or student who does not get results should not, on the basis of those results, be given special support and require an effort. Because, look, I don't know if it's you..., here are a lot of very young people who haven't lived their lives, but life is basically effort, and one of the places where we train for that effort is in the educational stages. Not excessive efforts, not efforts that will make anyone perish under the weight, but yes... The ability to strive is like that of an athlete, it's a training, and the best favor we can do to our daughters and children is to train that muscle. Now to get to the point, then, look, they've told you a thousand times, that I bring you here because, as it seems you don't get it... What you say about LOMCE is that it no longer applies, because Decree-Law 5/2016, urgent measures for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, has the following content, and I quote it sic-sic because it is that it has been said by the whole world and it seems that it does not absorb it: "In this way, until the entry into force of the regulations resulting from the Social and Political State Pact for Education, the final evaluation of Compulsory Secondary Education will consist of a test without academic effects" – I interrupt the quotes, because moreover it will not even be carried out to the whole world: it will be a sampling, it will be a sampling; abro quotes – "and of a sample nature" – as I have just explained –, "while in the case of the Bachelorate there will be a test of characteristics similar to the current Test of Access to the University and valid for the sole effects of access to the university. In addition, during this period, the object of the tests shall be limited to the truncal subjects of the last course of each educational stage". I close quotes. That is to say, I believe it is clear that those aspects of the LOMCE which are so repugnant to you are not in force. With regard to the assessments, which I believe have been made..., perhaps here little of unknown, and I apologize, but I believe that the IVEI has been doing evaluations of assessments of how it is going. They are absolutely necessary! They are absolutely necessary, because, instead of being punitive and distressing and "poor children and poor professionals", they are a tool for improvement. They're the ones who tell us if we're good or we're bad. And it's not about punishing anyone, it's about using it as an improvement tool, and that's why we're going to support it. In short, first, evaluations are a tool for validating excellence and effort and, therefore, to facilitate social mobility: that the person who has levels, who has been able to strive, who has reached levels of excellence, has open paths for any kind of further study, any training, all the help that can be given, etc., etc. That is, they are a tool for social mobility and therefore a tool for the future for Euskadi in this case. On the other hand, LOMCE... Well, let's not talk, I've already mentioned it to you! More than a sic-sic quote, I can't do it. And with regard to Heziberri, with which we disagree. And we do not agree, first of all, because we consider it to be too far apart. It's just that we value abilities in twelve, it seems to me that it is..., and I apologize if I'm not accurate, but I think that's twelve abilities. We think it's excessive. And above all what we see and what the teacher asks of us is training. Because it is very different to teach final content, than to train in the ability to get to those content by yourself, which, when we say that we are applying capabilities, is the ability to get to the contents, not the contents themselves. Well, we think that the faculty needs a training they don't have so far. But, however, both at the level of Spain and at the level of Euskadi there are two things pending, which is the pact for education at both levels. And we will wait for that pact for education to put forward the things with which we are not in conformity. And, of course, the Government and the groups that support it are going to have us there to cooperate and cooperate, because we come to the pact with a real desire to contribute. But, I tell you, we evaluations believe that they are a door not to punish, but to reward. To reward. And, therefore, they have positive effects. To reward and help those who fail to achieve the required results. And, therefore, the path of social mobility and the path of improvement for the whole of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Well, today's debate on the invalid allows us to delve deeper into what is really hidden behind one of the messages that I'm sure all the people we're here have ever spoken or heard on the street: "No to the invalids." Let's begin this intervention by placing the topic briefly, so that anyone who is listening to us understands what LOMCE's invalids are, what they mean for the education system, what they have to do with Heziberri 2020, and what their current situation is. Let's start with this brief summary, because the process of implementation of the LOMCE has been a real chaos, of constant changes and improvisations to coup d'état. A process that is poorly informed and without previous debate, and which has generated special friction among the educational community. A process that has also influenced Euskadi and the design of Heziberri 2020. First of all, let's look at Madrid. We have the LOMCE, that is, the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the educational quality; a law approved by an absolute majority of the PP and rejected by the vast majority of the educational community; a law with a newsletter, from above down, that today, as we will see below, is being dismantled by its own promoters. Three years after the approval of the LOMCE, which was rejected by the Congress of Deputies at the session of April 5, 2016, in the previous legislature, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport approves on July 29, 2016, not by chance in the middle of the summer and being an arbitrary action by the government in office, Royal Decree 310/2016, regulating the final evaluations of Compulsory Secondary Education and Bachelor's degree, those known as invalids. That is, there are two external, mandatory, summative, review-based evaluations that have administrative effects. That is, two approval evaluations necessary to obtain the title of ESO and Bachiller. In other words, in the case of the ESO's fourth revalidation, we find a student who, after thirteen years of evaluations (three years of children, six years of primary education and four years of primary education), 102 subjects exceeded, 306 quarterly evaluations and hundreds of partial examinations, by decision of the Government it is up to him to make another evaluation or further examination. And in the case of the baccalaureate revalidate, after 120 subjects, 360 quarterly evaluations and hundreds of partial examinations, it is decided to make another final evaluation, in order to obtain the title. In other words, fifteen years of the life of a person who undergoes constant evaluations and examinations, in order to supposedly improve their educational quality. Is so much evaluation necessary, so much examination to improve the educational quality of students? Would it not be more effective to evaluate the education system as a whole? After the shock of the invalids, four months of the decree pass, and the Government in office decides to suspend the invalids. Why? Who knows. The legislation is being changed in the third quarter, which means a third legislative change in the same course, which will already apply in the same course. It sounds like fiction, but no, it's real. The case is that it is announced that these evaluations will be carried out, but that they will not have academic effects; only diagnoses. Literally, it is reported that the final evaluation of Compulsory Secondary Education corresponding to the call that takes place in the year 2017 will not have academic effects, and regarding that of the Baccalaureate will only be taken into account for the access to the university, but its overcoming will not be necessary to obtain the title of Baccalaureate. But, look, this decision will be firm until a pact for education is reached. Because it is important to say that already with the elected Government a subcommission is set up in Congress to reach the so-called "great pact of social and political education for education". In short, today, and the fruit of LOMCE, we are faced with an educational system that subjects its student to spend fifteen years overcoming subjects, quarterly evaluations, partial examinations, two diagnostic revalidations, internal evaluations of each autonomous community, external evaluations... A little excessive. Let us now look at Euskadi, Heziberri 2020, the plan put in place by the Department of Education to improve the Basque education system, a plan consisting of three projects: a first project for the development of the framework of an educational-pedagogical model; a second project in which the curricular decrees of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of Children's Education, Basic Education and Bachelor's degree are designed; and the third project, supposedly initiated, to take steps towards a new Basque education law. However, what are the characteristics of the own evaluation model proposed by the educational-pedagogical model of the Heziberri 2020 Plan? Interestingly, very similar to the model that marks the LOMCE. Coincidences of life! Very briefly, Heziberri 2020 proposes evaluating students by skills, and plans to use diagnostic evaluations, formative evaluations and final evaluations. In particular, it establishes a diagnostic evaluation in the middle of the stage, in the third stage of Primary Education, of an optional nature and whose design and correction remains in the hands of the centre itself; another diagnostic evaluation in the sixth stage of Primary Education, at the end of the stage, which will be carried out by the Department of Education through the Basque Institute of Evaluation and Educational Research (ISEI-IVEI); another evaluation in the fourth of Primary and second of the ESO; another final evaluation in the second of Bachelorate, which is for selectivity. In short, a set of assessments that, in reality, are all really necessary? Having said all this, from Elkarrekin We want to make it clear that one thing is the invalids and the other the evaluations. We are against the invalids, and we are part of those who have shouted again and again on the street "No to the invalids", but this does not mean that we oppose the student being evaluated. However, the following issues need to be made clear: why evaluation is needed; how, when and what to evaluate; who should be involved in the evaluation process; what to evaluate. From Elkarrekin We believe that it is necessary to evaluate, but with criterion, order and common sense. We are aware that evaluating is a necessary condition for improving teaching. Evaluations are part of the learning process, a very important part. Evaluation depends as much on what and how it is taught as what and how it is learned. In other words, tell me what teaching and learning methodologies you use, and I'll tell you how to evaluate. From Elkarrekin We believe that the desire that characterizes neoliberal policies, to quantify, to compare in order to facilitate the construction of rankings, is not a good evaluation system. Therefore, from Elkarrekin We believe that evaluation systems need to be reviewed. We propose an evaluation of the system as a whole, because the education system is what is failing. Evaluation is only part of the system. We therefore bet on the design of a comprehensive evaluation for the system as a whole and for schools. Evaluations should be designed for specific contexts, have to evaluate varied dimensions, have to be dynamic, and be conceived as a learning process. Different forms of assessment should be used, adapted to the needs of the student and to the educational model of each centre, and, above all, should be designed together with the educational community. Because, what evaluation system do we want for Basque education? Who has been able to design the evaluation system according to the educational-pedagogical model of the Heziberri 2020 plan? Once again, and like LOMCE, Heziberri 2020 is a plan, a process that has not been attended by the educational community. In short, not to the disabled, not to evaluations that at any time have the objective of diagnosing, and not to an approach to education as a constant career of obstacles. It is clear that the model of the disabled is not at the service of improving education, which should be the basic objective. It is much more focused on selecting, segregating and sanctioning than on identifying problems and establishing improvement measures. And we say yes to an integrated and consensual evaluation system, yes to evaluations that help the learning process, yes to an evaluation model that is resourced, and yes to a three-year competency assessment, within a comprehensive evaluation plan of the education system. Let's think about which education system we want, and from there we value what kind of evaluation system is needed. One cannot move towards innovative teaching and learning methodologies adapted to the reality of the twenty-first century and continue to use 19th century assessment tools. We conceive of evaluation as part of a whole, as a tool for improving knowledge learning. Because when evaluation ceases to be an obstacle to save and puts itself at the service of the center and the student becomes an opportunity to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing by the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u76	Mrs. Bengochea, normal and logical if you don't agree with us, I'd worry if you'd tell me you agree with us. It seems as if we must apologise for bringing in proposals in this house: it's never the time, it's always wrong, you take everything as an assault, I'm really... I don't understand a thing. for if we present them, we do not present them, because we do not present them. I'd love to be like the EAJs, the self-esteem of the hell, and here the people are out there. We know that the proposals which we bring are not only necessary to guide us and to carry on alone, we know that we must work together with all, because we must agree together with all, because we must direct the conversation. In education, more than anywhere else, we need interviews and proposals, even at the moment when we find ourselves more. We were conscious, we were very conscious that you were going to tell us that it's not the time, it's manipulation... We knew what you'd tell us. And what you want to think, Mr. Pastor, I don't care what you think of us, I really care about building a high-quality education system, and I want you to think that you really care about this people having a high education system. And that's why we make proposals, and that's why we make contributions, and we'll continue to bring those proposals back, seeing the closeness, the lack of capacity, and the incendiaries of this government. And the only way we see it is, and what we want to do is export, export. Sometimes we'll figure it out, sometimes we can't figure it out, but we want to export it. And really, if you're so concerned, I don't deny that you're worried, that you'll be so worried, that if you're so upset, you'll bring in your proposals, I'm willing to bring them to you. I haven't seen a single proposition, I haven't seen it yet. If you want to bring it back, we don't care about the time. We don't care. Bring him in, we'll discuss it, we'll try to agree, but bring him back, it's time now. We're in a sanitary system. Times have changed, and education has to adapt to the system of education, especially to future romances, and not to the past, and we are now answering the past. We haven't been able to answer all those changes that have been going on for years, and there's the challenges. And, of course, we need a deal, we need a deal with the middle-term and the length of the time, but that's what we don't have, that's what this government isn't doing. And we don't say that you apply LOMCE, you say that you apply, that's not an EH Collect wrote, you get this on top of the dome, you get it. "Las actuciones para la implantación de la LOMCE serancidas por dicho fendo, que cofincias loss ar 50%." EAJ has agreed to this, not EH Collect. Look, it's not true, it's not true that it was agreed on the first stage of the novel. That's not true. The Operators appeared in the photo, but they didn't sign, and it's true that the operators had contributed, but it's true that you've answered them, but it's true you didn't have the contributions, it's true you didn't have them in mind, it's a lie, so you'd have paid a lot of attention to the contributions, so it's all been told. And the frame is LOMCE. There is nothing to see but the writing that has been sent to the schools, on the end of the year. Do you know how schools are at school at the university, teachers, students, and how students work? Well, read this, please, take a moment and read what the Board of Education has sent to the schools. You'll tell me if it's LOMCE or not, and then what New Hezier is and what really is wanted for, what it is. Look, what a evaluation system needs to find is to get a high-quality education system, it needs to look for the students' service and not the chaos that's at this moment. So, react, please, react, start your contributions. We are not disturbed; we are ready to discuss and try for consent. But please do, because this town needs it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u78	Yes, look, Mrs. Ubera, don't bother you that we make assessments, whether or not we value the opportunity to present it or qualify it as an opportunist. We have our own discretion when it comes to assessing the actions of another. And it seems very good to me that you give a damn what we think of that. I don't care what you think. I'm interested in knowing what you think, and I think it's good that you bring your proposals, your ideas and your assessments of what's going on. And that can probably be a difference between how we and you approach political action: I do care what the other political parties in this House think, and I am interested, especially on a subject like this, that we are able to agree. And we are also going to have to do a dialogue exercise, also within the Basque Government. Not everything the Education Council does is the taste of the Socialist Party! And probably to face that debate about the new Basque education law we will have to be able, first among ourselves, to reach an agreement, and after trying to get it settled with the greatest possible consensus in this House, with you, with Elkarrekin Podemos, with the People's Party and with the Basque Nationalist Party. Because I would like for once in this country, and I wish it were possible in Spain, to be able to take education out of political discussion, and to have to renew educational pacts according to the political colour of the party that is at that time in the government, as happens in other very advanced countries that we all put here as a reference. Therefore, I take your floor and share your willingness to try to reach that agreement, and I will stick with it. And I hope that over the next few months we will be able to begin to implement that great educational pact in which we, who are in this House, and a broad sector of the educational community, have a lot to say about what needs to be done in this country as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u80	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Ubera, I told you last week: We're no one here to deny anything to the teams. You may offer any proposal, but as you may have the right to bring any proposal, we have the right to say that it is rather a great coincidence to bring us a registered initiative in November last week of strike. I told you the last week about self-esteem: without pride we have great self-esteem, because we have advanced in this country through our governments for so many years. And we say without arrogance that our government has composed governments together with the EAJ and the rest of the world, and that we've been able to do other things as you have done, then self-esteem, always. This is where you showed some documents. I don't know what the documents are, but it's true that the directors of the schools have asked the government expressly, please, to clear it, because you're making a mess and making a mess of it, including the evaluation diagnosiss and the rest of the business. And then they've come to explain an explanation to the directors of the schools because they asked the department for them. Mrs. Macazaga, that's exactly what the department wants to do, an evaluation system of its own, and that's why the piloting is now being done. And at Radio Euskadi, the Education Advisor expressly said: "We conduct the piloting of evaluations that give us response to the output profile of each stage. With our model we propose what competences the student has to have at the end of each stage, and we want a diagnosis that this is being fulfilled. We are doing a pilotage, we want to design what types of materials, questions, contents, times, must have the tests to make a good diagnosis. In this course we are preparing this diagnosis to decide what our own evaluation system is, and there all educational agents and all those who want to have their share of participation." What this town needs is to combine in essential matters, and education is one of them. And for important reasons: because our children are the basis of their subsistence, because they are the basis of making our people, because they are united to individual and collective efforts, because they are in education the progress of the eulogy, the culture of peace, the value of working well, the validity of action, of native existence, and that we mark it by education, as a people, whether in economy, in culture, or in culture, and so on. The great exercise of education ought to be permanent, and to maintain stability; for this is what all the agents and citizens ask of us. Education needs a thread. Every time a party changes in government, that needs to be followed. We need an euscal system of education, which answers the necessities and purposes of our country as a people, from base to end, without dependence on any one, or even done with examples that are foreign to us. Consistency and personality are two principal elements that our system needs. The Board of Education stands as in the third stage to make the law of euscal education. This, we must do amongst all, the public schools, and learned schools, considering the Schools and Schools of Christians, and their Representatives in conjunction with them. For it is easy to criticize those who do it, but what is your contribution? Mr. Egibar has told you at the first point, and it seems that the one with the left patriot is that EAJ has a plan for this country, even in education. In making the law of Euscalal education we shall see what are the exportations of some and others; there will be time to make the contribution of all, there's an excellent opportunity for making your proposals. We'll see what you've got beyond the slogans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Basque Popular. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u82	Mrs Ubera, of course we do not agree, but I will also tell you something else, something you will have to recognize is that we would never, nor have we ever, qualify a proposal of the kind that is, of you, timely or inappropriate or out of place. We've never done that. We take it seriously and read it. You've seen that I've commented on your text. Let's see, we disagree and we will manifest it, not with the language with which you usually express your disagreement with us, which, well, is full of insults, denigrating qualifications, etc. I will not deny that inside I have my reservations towards your group, but it will be understood that it is because of the fate of recent events, but we will always take them into account and talk about the things that you propose. Look, we continue to ratify ourselves in the need for assessments, for one reason. We all know that until recently we were all talking about equality, but now we are beginning to talk, as a much more correct way of referring to it, about equity. Evaluations help to achieve equity. Non-evaluations may be the same as everyone else, but they do not allow everyone to be given what they need: neither the excellent one can be given special stimuli, nor the person with the most needs can be given special support. If we want to be equitable, we will have to know each other's needs. Mrs. Macazaga (I don't know if you're around here... sorry, yes, it's up there), it's just that I'm going to tell you one thing. If we are in agreement with practically everything you have said and can count on us for the pact! You have made a desideratum, and who will not agree with a desideratum? Let's try to turn that desideratum into a reality. It's gonna be a little harder, but we agree. The only thing is that you're saying, "I'm in favour of evaluations but against revalidations." Look, the term invalid is a term that invented, or put into practice, a socialist minister of education in the Republic and continued until recently, but I do not think there is a reference to invalid in the official documents today. No! No! Yes to validate, yes to diagnosis, and yes in the sense you say, but no one is talking about invalids. And then it's true that our students have to pass a lot of tests and tests, and they may be excessive, that we can also work on, but these we're talking about have no idea if they have an advantage, but they have an objective, which is the general overview. And, I tell you, it's going to make us much more equitable and it's going to prevent us from treating everyone the same, not giving enough to those who don't get there and not providing extra stimuli to those who get bored because they exceed that level. So, Mrs. Macazaga, you can count on us. There's only one last thing I'm going to say, Mrs. Ubera, but to make you see that I'm taking myself seriously. I was very worried when you talked about planting the invalids, and more coming from a parliamentarian. Look, we here approve things in solidarity, and how many times, because we have not voted in favour, I come out saying, "My God, what we have approved!". Because, although I am voting against, in solidarity, if this Parliament votes in favour, I go out and say, "My God, what we have approved!". So let a person who belongs to this Parliament talk about making plants worry me, because, if we don't respect what there is – imagine you come a moment and get us all convinced, and we get an agreement on your bases – what guarantees do you have that you will respect it? Legitimacy really gives it the acceptance of solidarity approval. There's a lot of things I don't like, but I don't have any more noses. And now, as a Member of Parliament, I have approved them, even if I voted against them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u84	Thanks again. We believe that what has happened is, above all, confusion, lack of information for families, to which only results are taken into account. We believe that the information should be given in commission, not in Cadena Ser or Radio Euskadi (I don't know exactly where the statements were). And, in relation to the invalids, we will continue to say no to the invalids and yes to evaluate, but to evaluate a Basque educational system and not just the student. Because this also involves collateral damage, which we have not talked about, but it puts pressure on boys and girls to have results consistent with the tests. Stress of continuous and permanent control, as if it could only be studied by pressure and fear of exams, forgetting curiosity and passion for knowledge. The selection of those customers who are good not to go down in the ranking and the exclusion of those who have the most learning difficulties and are the ones who really need us the most. The delegitimization of the teaching function and the distrust towards the teacher, since it is not the teacher who has direct teaching with the student who evaluates, because he is expelled from the process of final evaluation on the degree of learning of the student, resorting to other professionals. Content degradation (it ends up studying what is being examined, and the focus is on time and teaching efforts to prepare the student to solve tests and exams, as it already happens in second of Baccalaureate with a view to selectivity). Control over teaching work and the loss of educational innovation. Convert the teacher to test preparers, thus suffering direct control over his work and what he must teach. And the publicity of these tests makes evaluation a mechanism of competition between centres and not of cooperation. Yes to the evaluation, but of the whole integral system, not just the student. And, Mrs. Bengoechea, I'm glad you agree with me, and where I say "Diego," I say "philosophy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: parties, 72; votes given, 74; supporters, 28; opponents 46; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u86	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Basque Sociialists, who have been introduced to one another by teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 17; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u87	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. At this point, I interrupt the entire meeting until 15:15. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one. The meeting resumed at sixteen o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u88	Good afternoon. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning sports exercises without symbolic violence to women. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana has the word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u89	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Elkarrekin We can bring back to this House an initiative to give greater impetus to policies of equality and against macho violence from a feminist perspective. On this occasion we deal with the field of sport. In our programme we are committed to improving the existing autonomous legislation in this area. We think that analyzing the world of sport from a feminist perspective will undoubtedly contribute to improving it for women and men, for society as a whole in the final analysis. In the last two months initiatives have been presented in various municipalities of the Autonomous Community related to symbolic violence and sport. In the municipalities of Bilbao or Vitoria-Gasteiz, proposals have been approved by our partners of Udalberri and Podemos Vitoria-Gasteiz to eliminate the figure of women as mere sexual objects on podiums, promotions or advertising of sporting events. With the unanimous approval of this initiative today we promote policy coherence at different levels of government and consolidate the work that is being done in the world of sport to prevent and eradicate discrimination, inequality and violence against women. It's one more step. However, much remains to be done, and from a more comprehensive perspective of the problem, it is necessary to push forward other broader measures, such as those that we are going to adopt today through this transaction. Experts say that sport continues to be a highly accused of machismo; at professional levels it is where this problem is best visualized. We have different reports and data that confirm that. The media at the end of March echoed the so-called anti-pregnancy clauses in the contracts of professional sportswomen, a requirement that is introduced among the assumptions that cause a unilateral resolution of the contract, often along with doping positives, the practice of risky sports or unfair conduct. The work of the media is also a reflection of the place women are given in sport, and at the same time, as opinion generators, they are responsible for the dissemination and projection..., or rather for the scant dissemination and projection that they are given. In fact, they only have to turn on television, and in particular put the ETB, to be aware of it and to check it. In quantitative terms, according to the study "Presence and treatment of women's sport in the Basque generalist press and sports information newspapers", carried out in the 2015 and 2016 seasons, 15,800 sports information was published in that newspaper. Only 1,017 (i.e. 6.4%) reported women exclusively. When the news relates to men and women, less than 10% of the sports information published highlights women's sport at the head of the information. Women usually appear at the end of the news, in a minimal mention. In qualitative terms, as far as the content and focus of the few news are concerned, there is a relevant number, which draws the attention of anyone, of news that mentions or focuses on private personal aspects of athletes, or that point to physical features or characteristics, or their non-sports clothing. We often find news that try to highlight, precisely through their clothing, their private life or physical appearance, that professional sportswomen can also be female, understood femininity from a patriarchal conception. When women are protagonists of the competition, media treatment in most cases is clearly macho. When men are the protagonists of sporting events and competitions, women are omitted, or often appear in a place of objects. It is common to use women repeatedly as advertising and consumer claims, generating the perpetuation of gender roles and sexist stereotypes. In general, they are women who are placed in visible places by organizing companies or those that finance sporting events to promote their products or attract public attention, even if their presence is totally disconnected from the sport activity and the product in question. Thus, young women of stereotyped beauty appear in exit lines, goals, podiums and promotions, before, during and after the event. There are subtler, more discreet forms that reproduce and screw women instead of sexual objects. In the daily practice of sport, public facilities are spaces in which micromachisms camp to their widths. Polysports are not spaces free of harassment and violence for women. In great events we can also find expressions of micromachism, in which women are cosmified. Without going any further, in a first division football stadium in Euskadi, during breaks, on the giant screens an advertisement invited – obviously men – to continue the day after the game in a good company in a hostel. Obviously, it is not necessary to tell you that these men did not have to be accompanied by women, because they were in that place. This is a brief brushstroke that illustrates the inequality and discrimination women suffer in sports. We can also talk about the wage difference, the inequality of opportunities to enter and stay in the high competition. It's as easy as comparing what men earn in Bilbao's Athletic and what women earn, who earn so little that they have to look for other jobs. We can also talk about the difficult access of women, from girls, to the practice of certain sports strongly associated in our society with hegemonic masculinity, such as football and rugby. Lack of material support, but also unequal support for competitions and teams of boys and girls at the school level. Women find obstacles to being line judges or referees, and when they do, their performance is discredited by their status as women. A few days ago we were aware of an episode of verbal male violence against a line judge, which occurred in the second regional category of the football league. I quote: "Woman would have to be. You're a whore. Get against the wall, I'll rip you up and kill you. I shit on God with the fucking aunt! Why they bring us women, this is not your place." The arbitrator of the meeting must be recognized, who was able to identify and reflect in the record that his assistance had been subjected to macho violence. With macho violence, zero complicity. Obstacles also persist, they are hardly salvable to reach decision-making positions on boards or to train male teams, while it is totally natural for men to be female team coaches, and, of course, managers. We know that the Union of Basque Sports Federations is making efforts to reverse this situation, although it is scarce. On its website you can find a tab called "Gender Equality", with a guide to incorporate the gender perspective in sports federations. And they have an equality plan, though very basic and dating back to 2007. We hope that this initiative will serve to strengthen and give new impetus to these initial actions. As has already been mentioned many times in this house, inequality and discrimination are the breeding ground for abuse and harassment. In times when he is very present to talk about the violence that surrounds the massive football shows and that takes place within them, it is necessary to point out and emphasize that this violence has Machista components that cannot be analyzed and treated as an aspect of violence in sport. The Guide for the Prevention of Harassment and Sexual Abuse of Women in Sport, published by Emakunde in 2015, states: "Any attempt to study or analyse violence against women in sport would be invalid if it were to be considered an aspect of violence in sport. It would be a serious mistake that would prevent us from moving forward on the issue we are dealing with." In addition, research conducted in Canada, the United States, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, France, Greece and Norway has revealed the existence of sexual harassment and abuse of girls and women in the field of sport. For example, a study conducted in Norway in 2004 revealed that 28% of elite athletes had been harassed and/or sexually abused, and 45% of athletes at different levels of sport or practice had been sexually harassed. The researches consulted agree that there are no significant differences in the existence and prevalence of harassment and sexual abuse in sports performed individually or collectively; however, a higher rate of harassment and abuse has been found in traditionally male sports. In early 2014, results of a research carried out in three universities in Catalonia with women sports students in Physical Activity and Sport Sciences have been published. Data reveal that these women perceive sexual harassment by coaches through the following behaviors: physical contact, derogatory comments about women, comments about physical appearance, proposed sexual relations, unacceptable looks, etc., etc. In the Basque Autonomous Community there are no quantitative data on the existence and prevalence of harassment and sexual abuse of women in sport; however, according to statements by women sportsmen and ex-sportsmen, as well as women professionals in the field of physical activity and sports and sports management, interviewed to draw up the guide we are quoting, in the Basque Autonomous Community there is harassment and sexual abuse in sport. This testimony is drawn from the interviews conducted to develop this guide. "I had been my swimming teacher when I was seventeen. When I finished my degree in Physical Education, he was the director of a major sports club and I went to ask him for a job. When I was leaving, he pushed me sharply against the wall, grabbing my breasts with his hands, as he said to me, 'I've always liked you, I kept calm while you were underage.' I said, "Let go of me or I'll start screaming." He let me go, and I ran out." This is happening in Euskadi. It also collects testimonies of naturalized and widespread actions, in which women say: "We would be about fifteen years old, the coach would slap us in the ass when we were going out to play in the field." This reality, these testimonies outrage us. We're very indignant. With this agreement we transform indignation into concrete proposals, measures and policies that end these practices that repeatedly violate women's rights. Through the first point, the establishment of the specific working group under the orbit of the Inter-institutional Commission for Equality of Men and Women aims to bring together the efforts and specific actions that are being carried out, so that they are articulated in comprehensive medium- and long-term policies, as well as the elaboration of a regulatory code that in the short term is a tool of guidance and reference for all agents who manage public facilities and organize and sponsor sporting events and competitions. Point 3 seeks to give a new impetus to the effective implementation of the law with which we count, 4/2005, for the equality of women and men. We must use the existing mechanisms, no doubt, when the law guaranteeing women's rights is not enforced. Fourthly, we promote more visibility of women in sport, more on television; more women and better valued in society as a whole. And finally, we have the opportunity to remedy all the regulatory holes that might exist to prevent and eradicate machist violence in the sport field, through the bill that will be formulated in this legislature. Indeed, with this compromise, which we unanimously approve today, we hope to contribute to greater equality in the sporting world, as well as to the prevention and eradication of the machist violence that occurs in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u91	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Soon, because Mrs Arana has already framed the purpose of the non-legislative proposal and the compromise amendment, I will say that we agree with the compromise amendment that has been offered for approval by this House. We are working on the subject with an amendment of the whole that I was looking for..., it could be nothing more than to affect the agreement, and I was also trying to involve Emakunde, the Basque Institute for Women, in the leadership of this type of action, which is and is for that it is an institute dependent on the Basque Government and Lehendakaritza. And I believe that these are also his duties. But, well, in any case, that's why we wanted to put it, because in the proposal no original law came none of that, and it was good to look for a concert between the institutions..., between the declaration of that text and those who can participate in it. Indeed, sport, for us and for everyone, what is it? Above all, it is a belt of transmission of values of coexistence, and among them, of respect, equality and positive attitudes in life. And logically the elimination of any discrimination is that: it is coexistence, it is equality and it is respect, and it is a positive attitude in life. It is true that work has also been done on this issue, that work continues, that there is much to go on. The United Nations itself, the United Nations, places these kinds of goals, and sport in particular, with names and surnames, in the work of being a facilitator of sustainable development in the citizen, in the civic, in the living. Within the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development statement, which we all have, one of its points, point 37, already speaks of sport also as an important facilitator of sustainable development. And it recognizes the growing contribution of sport to development and peace by the UN, and the Heads of Government who support that 2030 Agenda, in promoting tolerance and respect and contributing to the empowerment of women and young people, both at the individual and community levels, as well as to health, education and social inclusion. It is clear that sport is also valued here by international organizations as an element of inclusion, as an element of non-discrimination, as an element of tolerance, coexistence and respect. And that's why we have to work. Indeed, the UN has also shown that sport supports gender empowerment. That has also been said in statements by the United Nations itself, and in that regard it is there. That is to say, the compromise amendment, which we are of course going to vote in favour, speaks of that. He talks about specific working groups with organizations... not only with institutional entities, politicians, but with organizations, with sports federations; that identify these measures of adequacy in the face of macho violence, in the face of discrimination in sport... And let him do it with Emakunde's hand suits us. The deadlines are there. It is better that we do it as soon as possible to get it started as soon as possible, and that the governments and institutions that carry it forward, and the federations themselves and the sports clubs, all the sports network that is called for by these kinds of declarations that we can make from the Basque Parliament. Of course, that point too, of implementing actions with the aim of eliminating macho violence from sporting events, must be supported, it must be identified when it is so, and controlled and neutralized. There is nothing else to work in that regard, for equality, for the absence of such discriminatory, sexist or violent attitudes, and there we are all involved in all areas; in this case in sport many elements, from the sportsmen themselves to the coaches themselves, the managers themselves, the clubs, the spectators, the judges... That's how it is, and it's clear. And there is no doubt that continuing effective control of the implementation of Law 4/2005, as Mrs Arana has said, is a fundamental element, and the momentum... In any case, these things are not done if there is no transmission, if the media are not involved, which sometimes also have flaws or wrong behaviors in relation to identifying situations that are not equal. That is why society as a whole has to move forward and progress. The promotion of awareness-raising campaigns on the participation of women and men in sport on an equal and non-discriminatory basis, as well, is a fundamental and logical element and must of course be supported. Incorporating specific criteria against gender-based violence in the cultural sphere, within what can be considered sports parties, sporting events, is a necessary element. And in relation to the reports that will be made in points 1 and 2, because, well, it will be necessary to identify them, so that they do not produce sexist, sexist attitudes (or, if they occur, they are identified and neutralized) in sport again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u93	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. This proposition, as Polydemos says, with regard to sports without symbolic violence towards women, has several ends of thread, and is normal, because the symbolic violence has different points of thread, isn't it? Invisibly, by contempt, by physical or verbal assaults, that is, we shall have to speak of certain particular signs of presence, and a great deal of absence this day. And this middle cut puts some of these ends on the table. Getting to everything will take time, but we'll get them by degrees. This is a good deal of arrangement, and I should have remarked that the first point would be the origin of this work-table, because it will give us an opportunity to bring the results of our present law and investigations into practice. However, I'd like to make use of this little entrance to congratulate the ladies who started yesterday, because every year the Basque Country Road fills us with women sports. We'll have a chance to see high-level cyclists from the valley to the Ore these days. And I'd like to call that more exuscal fan of the Basque Country, because we're going to prove to all those women that we like on our roads, give pleasure to them on our streets, on our roads, to see them on our fields, and to make them feel protected by the fact that we're making our little collection of proposals from this place. I would like to bring here that smile and pleasure face which Eiser Merino, after he has stayed three times in yesterday and in the night, has remained here, because we must respond to all that joy and force he gives us, and we must also answer him. I'd like to bring him here in Ane Santesteba, too, because he has had strength and courage to continue sport after a serious accident, because he's involved in Biran too. And Lourdes Oardian Avenue, Ane Iriart, Mireia Muñoz... I mentioned some of the cycling women at Eroscal today. Every one has his own name, his history, but I am afraid that many of us and I know little about them. I know little about their lives, their contexts, their professional sports careers, and we should put our attentions on the table, in a proper way, to answer that effort they make. But besides this, we ought to put on the table, alas, sports, and especially the sports we have designed for the tournament, that we are constantly informed that the media is the space of men, and that, in short, the agends of the principal performances, all these advertisements, all the news, the advertisements, the advertisements, the advertisements, the advertisements, the advertisements, and all the news that are made up of the fancy-house. The media headlines and the pictures belong to men. It's a man's game of sports and women to sit in a chair as spectators or as seen, like cabbages, cheerleaders, or beautiful coupled couples, giving the spectacle a gloss. We'll meet a football partner earlier than a woman's top-end. As a saying says, "If we don't play, we'll dig the ball," and maybe it's time to dig the time. We don't all play here, much less on similar conditions. The law of equality prescribes the following duties within the circle of sport: the first, that the balanced presence of women and men, in the exercises of sports and of the administrative institutions of society, the second, that euscal and the administration of the people, in all sports conditions, ought to take a proper measure, to ensure that women and men will have the equality of commerce and choice; and the third, that the eucalystrations of the peoples of Escal will encourage the assistance of women and of men in the exercise of sports, and to increase, as well as to increase, the assistance of the majority of sports. The field of sport, the sexist roles and stereotypes, remains mainly an important area to be regenerated, and Mrs. Arana, I believe, has put a sad, disturbing photograph on the table. I am not going to remark, I think, that the ideas he has mentioned have been well spoken of, but I should like to remark, that the law of equality also imposes duties in this field; but it is a pity that the obedience of these duties depends on the sensibility of persons who may often be in the hands of their own wills and of their direction, or of the sensibility of persons who organize it, or make it up. And progress has been advanced, yes, due to the sensibility and will of certain agents as indicated. But the law would have to keep doing that engine work so that progress should not be isolated, so they can be consistent. This is why it is remarkable that one of the physiques, which we have obtained in this central medium, belongs to the interinstinental table, in which associations and institutions will be put to work. On the other hand, we must answer to particular attacks, for example, the homophobic or Matxist attacks which several sports judgments have been exposed to. And it is extraordinary to step forward, to organize campaigns, to promote sport; but, as has been said, we are still bound to present presence to those who are already doing it, and to appreciate their work. And there are groups that have taken steps on this road, like He or Athl, who have taken steps in the way of professionalisation, because he is taking steps in the way of matching conditions. And this has shown that it gives results that it allows you to increase the sportsmen's conditions at a time of improvement, and to be at the top points. So there's a lot of our hands, so we've got a lot to do to promote the sport, to break the sportsmen, to give them steps in eucalypine sport. So let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u95	Thank you, Madam President. After the people who have intervened few more data I will give, and I will tell more about the initiative that has been agreed, because we actually not only agree: it is that we have shared it from the first to the last line, even the proposition. I also share and applaud the reasons that led to this proposal, which refers to macho violence in particular sporting events. I will say this as we always say with regard to violence against women: it is the most serious expression of something else that justifies and justifies it, and it is the one that must finally be combated, which is the gravest situation of inequality. So, if we do it at all times, also here, when it comes to sporting events, also in sport. And of course not, I don't think it's a incidental product, either casual or inevitable, or involuntary. He's not involuntary either. It has cause, it has origin, it has motive, and now what it touches, what it touches us, what it has touched us since the time we have been pushing the struggle of women, of the feminist movement and of the policies that drive or support these movements, is to combat that cause, that origin and that motive. Because, in fact, I am not going to go further on how well they can do or how positive the measures that we unanimously adopt today can be, but rather what we have to do and what we have to do and what is not mentioned. I believe that in the end we all know that what is expressed in sexist violence in sporting events is the construction of sport from a culture that is not a culture of equality between men and women. And it is intrinsic – you said in your proposal – in a social, economic structure that bases man's superiority over women. Thus was built the sport practice more modernly, from the 19th century, with the contribution moreover, unfortunate in this case, that made the Olympic games in the modern era, and so it has been. In fact, even at the beginning of the 20th century, when they did not know what sports women could or could not participate in, which in the end left two (then expanded), they said that we would return to the original ancient spirit. Of course, to distribute the crowns and flowers to the men who participated. We always go back to Greece and to the civilized, but to go back on women's rights. So it is a rather complicated issue, which we are going to deal with in a timely manner. It seems to me to be very correct what has been raised, especially because it is raised from the point of view of unanimity, and that, when it comes to measures that have been directed since the requests, as I have said before, for these movements to fight for the equality of women and feminists, I think it is almost more important to share it. We have two fields left to do. One is the educative. We have to educate in sport on equal terms. I think they've been commenting on the new educational pact before, the Equality Act in the Basque Country... I ask people to go to work to keep it in mind, because it is built unequally and we are faced with an education in sport that continues to perpetuate the sexist stereotypes. And I believe that from the point of view of education, how we develop this educational model, but also from the point of view of ensuring that these stereotypes do not occur or are allowed, we can act. And then we have other areas to be able to participate in. Apart from the Law on Equality and its enforcement, there is the new law that is in the legislative calendar, of violence against women, where we can also study the aspects that develop of violence against women, I insist, taking it to the field of its origin or cause, which is inequality. And we also have sports skills! We are awaiting the new law on sport, which must be adapted, and which we can also use by bringing it to this Parliament to help and to be a necessary co-operator in that educational pact and in that new sport that we want for Basques and Basques, to promote those values of equality and not to perpetuate those that we still have, of a superior presence and of superiority of men over women throughout sport. You've all said the rest, and Mr. Barrio! I was left to say this: that this is a small step forward in a great cause, that women's leadership is also necessary in sport, that we know (and I share the remarks made by the representative of EH Bildu), and that only to see if we have the same unanimity when we treat education on equal terms in the educational pact, and a sport on equal terms in the new law of sport, which I hope we will bring soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, all of you, good afternoon. It's true, though it's sad, we women are still suffering discrimination. We suffer discrimination in many areas of society, but especially in the sport world. That's the subject we've got today to discuss. Together we have this legal proposal from Podemos about a sporting event without symbolic violence to women. I'm right, Mrs. Houseboy, we've also offered support and support to the team, and we're sorry that Biran Lourdes was going to fall off the Oardias, but they have all our spirit. We have more obstacles and fewer opportunities to participate in championships and compete professionally, because sport is dominated by men. The participation of women in sport, both professional and basic, and even school, is minority. It also receives less attention than that practiced by men, as mentioned here. But not only that: usually the language used to talk about men's and women's sport is not the same. Although the situation is improving and we have more and more women sportsmen in Euskadi, few can live exclusively from sport: they have to combine it with other jobs, and many, as in other professions, must abandon it to care for the family. Although the level is increasing, we have fewer referees, less trainers, less techniques and less directives in sports. We're breaking roofs, but we still have a way to go. As noted earlier, women receive less attention than men in the sports world, less space and less information time. It is clear that we must all raise awareness of the necessary gender equality in sport, and of course in all areas of life, but we also need the support, understanding and participation of the media if we are to end that inequality. The written press, television, radio... all play a very important role in the promotion and visibility of women's sport, but with a simple analysis of what women's sport occupies in all the journalistic information we will realize that there are fewer spaces, minutes and leaves in the newspaper than for men: few headlines, usually also closing news, and sometimes using words that are already discriminatory. The sports press usually transmits a stereotyped image of sportsmen and sportswomen, and employs a sexist language: while men highlight their sports skills, women often their appearance, appearance, personal life... They emphasize issues that have nothing to do with their athletic abilities. Low visibility, combined with the use of social stereotypes about women and men, maintains the gap between the two sexes. But not only do the media make this distinction, but also society: male events receive more spectators than women. Unfortunately, some sports clubs and federations still use the woman's body as a sexual and non-sports claim to promote their events. A very illustrative image that we all have in our heads, as repetitive, is that of the stewardesses exposed on podiums to be seen and to receive the champions with kisses on the cheek, attitudes that do not bring anything to the event and that, however, seriously harm the image of women, modifying them. But, fortunately, the collaboration between different actors and institutions has succeeded, for example, in the last Itzulia (the return to Euskal Herria) this figure is suppressed, thus giving way to equality. In this sense, as has been mentioned here, municipalities such as Bilbao, Vitoria, Zarautz or Eibar have unanimously approved to dispense with this presence on the podiums, especially on cycling laps. Why? Because they understand that women are treated as mere sexual objects. They are often beautiful, young, with sculptural bodies... an image that we understand moves away from the progress of women's empowerment in our society, advances that still have to overcome many barriers. Men's sport is more valued than women's, but the Basque Government has among its objectives to promote and achieve equality. I would like to recall that the first equality law was passed in our country, in Euskadi, in 2005, flagged and led by the Basque Nationalist Party. I mean, we're still working on some kind of self-assured, self-interest party that's still working to end the difference, because feminism is common to all people, in all our fields, in personal, professionals. He's working for fun and it's not just our job to ask for it. One must wonder: "What do I do to make equality come true? "I don't know. Equality is in all and all. He's in not making sexist jokes, not sharing images that hold women together, and he's in not perpetuating these kinds of roles or micromachisms. El Partado Naciolista Vasco siempre ha statusa tura favor de las pollíticas que vanticas laigared unre mujeres y hombres, la igide de las personss. We all build this equality, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it, we build it... - No, no, no, I insist that in 2005 this Parliament passed Law 4/2005 on Equality of Women and Men, which was a milestone, allowing for progress and normalization of equality policies in the Basque Country. The pioneering rule in the State is a benchmark that has made it possible to increase the presence of women in the areas of political decision-making and in other areas of everyday life. An example of success is the number of women who are part of this House, with a balanced representation that is also given at the general meetings, the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities. The rule has allowed for the creation of equality plans in various areas, and has opened up a path that protects women and is being consolidated day by day. Returning to the field of sport, I would like to bring back the words that the Culture Adviser, Mr Zupiria, delivered in committee on 27 January. He said that the situation in recent years has improved, and that the presence of female athletes at their level is also high, but that there are challenges, and his is about achieving true equality in this legislature. A challenge that we all share, and in which we must work together with other institutions, associations, citizens and entities to work in this area. That is why we believe that this unanimously adopted amendment represents a step forward in this objective, and we are satisfied because it improves the initial proposal, by including the participation of private actors to work also towards the elimination of discrimination. Finally, I would like to thank the groups for the agreement we have reached, because it is essential that we move in the same direction in this matter, because we are involved and care for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Does anyone want to be part of the answer shift? No? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eunciators, the middle-line correction that is signed by the U.S.A.s. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u99	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal as the Parlamentary Society of Euscals did, concerning the increase of education to the real cost. Discussion, and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is... Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Our group brings, to end this plenary today here, a non-law proposal which, of course, is common in our group, and which we will continue to present and present. Let's see, I don't know if I'll be able to give it a more original approach than other times, but I'll try, see if we can all think. Let's focus the defense of this non-law proposition by making it pivot on two concepts. The first is the injustice that is occurring right now, and the second is prejudice. What do I mean when I say that the current situation is fundamentally unfair? Well, I mean the next thing. Here we are talking many times that some do not want to talk about Basque school, and then we talk about Basque public school, or we talk about concerted school, and we always talk about school. But it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u101	Silence, please... Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u102	Thank you. But what we've really come here to talk about is people's fundamental rights. That's what we came here to talk about. And education systems are built. With constructs I mean that they are artificial agreements; artificial in the sense that they are made of artifice, and that they can be changed at any time. But what do we really have here? Here we have a number of people, a number of families, who have a number of boys and girls and who have the right to education. That's what we're really talking about. From now on, the rest are built. Of course, a right is always based on obligations. And what obligations do we impose on all these people and all these families? Well, let them pay taxes to get that education. And then I wonder: why in Euskadi, if we all pay the same taxes, each at its level, why do some receive that right 100 percent and others receive it only 70 percent? Because everyone has the right to education, and everyone is paying the same taxes! And the freedom to choose which model of teaching one wants is another right, another right that is also linked to paying taxes. Then, to that injustice I meant: people with the same rights (family in this case, and ultimately the recipients, who are children), with the same rights and with the same obligations, who are paying the same taxes, only some receive that right at 70%, and others receive it at 100%. Here's a real injustice. Someone will be able to say, "Well, it's just that with those taxes in public school, there's room for everyone." That's not true. Nearly 50% of our families want to exercise their right to education in a concerted network, and they have that right because freedom of choice is guaranteed. But for doing that they are penalized. They're being penalized! And one would say, "Well, but okay, it's that they are penalized, but what they have to contribute to the centers is then deductible in the income statement." Well, that would be a way to amend justice. But no, no! They charge exactly the same taxes and return 70% of the service, while others receive 100% back. And, of course, the public network would not be able to offer a place for all children in dreams, physically or financially. Not to mention that it would be to force the parents' freedom. So, look, our group has this thing that we have to help those who are suffering injustices. He's always marked us! This is how we have sometimes passed the sufferings we have passed! But when there's someone who's being discriminated against and who's suffering injustice, we think it's our duty to face him. And we are seeing this situation as an injustice. I repeat the argument: one hundred per cent of the payment of taxes, and one hundred per cent of the service and another 70 per cent of the service. And one will say, "Well, but let's see, one can choose the concert for many reasons." One, because he wants to be in a network that has always, traditionally, given great importance to the euskera, and then goes to a concerted ikastola. Others may be because they understand that cooperative movements are very important, and they go to a parent cooperative or a teaching cooperative. Others may understand that the values of Christian humanism (I am not referring to religion, but to Christian humanism) are fundamental, and they choose a school that defends and, above all, supports and spreads those values of Christian humanism. For another, it may be that he is closer to his home, or that he is the school the parents have gone to. There are a thousand reasons, but what remains real is that this choice costs them an injustice: it costs them to receive only 70% of the value. So, I've already told you, we try to think, if possible, about this, and with that first concept: the concept of injustice that is being given. And then we go to the second concept, ideological prejudices. Let me repeat again: this morning I was very shocked when I read again that the rich should pay for their own health – I didn't remember who said it –... that the rich would have to pay for their own health and not go to Osakidetza. To me that "the rich," I tell you, has brought me back to the 20th century. Not to mention, with the salary we have here, we're rich, eh! I mean, no one here goes to Osakidetza, because we have wages that aren't normal. But, come on, here to Osakidetza no one, everyone to the private. And I don't say anything anymore if it's a marriage that's entering about 8,000 euros a month, as it can pass through here in many places. It's over Osakidetza, it's not for us. But, back to those 20th century concepts, there are so many prejudices, so many prejudices in this subject, and the situation sounds so false... Because, look, I look at all of you and I see many parents, especially in a certain spectrum, in others I see less. [[Berber]] But, come on, if we did here (it's that I've been looking at the..., these, and believe me, I'm right)...; then, if we did an exam of how many people are taking their children here to a concerted school and how many to a public school, at least I'd go fifty-fifty. At least. Then let's not be fake. Please, let's be fair to everyone. If you pay all taxes, you will be entitled to receive full service. And, second, let us remove those concepts of the twentieth century, from the rich, the exploiters (this morning, speaking also of another, I have heard "mercantilists")..., horrible beings, twisted, frightening, worthy of the most horrible qualifying adjectives, which lead their children to concert. Well, no, gentlemen. Here we talk a lot about aniztasuna, we talk a lot about what everything has to be, and then, even if it's just by omission, when we dedicate those wonderful qualifying adjectives to public school, by omission we're saying that the concerted school lacks that. He's missing that. I hope you'll think about it. I don't ask now, because we're going to be left alone, but they don't know what honor it is to be left alone defending society against injustice. It's an honor. And it's cost us a lot, but it's an honor we've liked quite a few times. Then I ask you to reflect on these two concepts. There must be no prejudice. Concerted centers have everything. There are even centers dedicated to serving – in terminology, it seems to me to be, from EH Bildu – the poorest of the poorest, and, in a more modern terminology, the most excluded of the most excluded. There are concerted centers dedicated to that, and not one or two or three: there is a lot. And I'm gonna tell you one thing. I don't know which country you will live in, but I know public schools that feel quite elitist, and that when there is a merger with another public school of more popular places defend themselves as a tripod cat up. And I'm sure she's not going to give me reason, but the counselor has had that experience, because I've had it in my very close environment: a public school that was cool, it was the cool place to send your kids, and she had to join a public school that was from a much more depressed area, and that was war. That... a swallow isn't summer, I don't say that's the usual, but what I'm saying is there's no need for prejudice. Please be fair: to equal obligations, i.e. equal payment of taxes, equal rights, i.e. to receive 100 per cent of the service. And, please, a little less harm; that there is everything, as in the Lord's vineyard, in the public and in the concerted. Moreover, I can give you some audiences who also charge fees. Believe me, there are. There are. And let us look at ourselves, at so many of us who are taking the children to a concerted school, and let us recognize – even for a little bit of self-esteem – that we are not so horrible, not so mercantile, not so exploitative, not so much nothing. Equal rights, equal obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together represent the Podemos team. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u104	Hello, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. We end this gathering of the whole of the day, just as the members of the Basque Pional Group are proposing to increase their education to the real cost. This other proposition of the law plainly indicates that all the members of this Chamber do not regard public education as the axis of an educational system. Unfortunately, I must tell you, it doesn't surprise me, but I do worry about it. Fortunately, as I am convinced that the positive difference which lies in all circumstances may be drawn, I will place my positive eye in that place. For it is good, because this proposition allows us to share our ideas, and the choice of the public service which every political party understands, if it be to illustrate the liberty of choosing the center.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u105	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u106	These three concepts are the freedom to choose the center from the public service, the facility, the freedom of choosing the center, when talking about different networks of education, the public network, the private network, and the compact network. First, I think it's important to remark that it's a public education service for us, and that it's a statue at its end. Hence we understand it as a service to the welfare of all educations, and ought not to be subject to the law of the sacrificer. We also favor public education that will be the axis of the euscal education system. for us, then, education should be equative, equative, and of quality. After I've said all this, it's my question: Are we all agreed that public education is the only option that can properly guarantee educational rights? I'm going to tell you clearly that I don't think so. In fact, because when you continue to demand an investment of education, it becomes clear, and when you accept certain budgets, where public money is offered to direct them to private opportunities. With this philosophy we do not guarantee the effective education, but rather increase social differences. We see very clearly that with public money public education is to finance public education. After I've examined all this, I have to reflect that we are in the presence of a normally normal abnormality in Eukadin. We must observe, among other things, that it is one of the countries of Europe which in the Euskaka most contributes to private education. The first is Belgium and the second is Basque. The country of the third is Spain. That is to say, all educational nets are said to be huddlepublic, private, and compact, and that is not so. And in many cases these differences result in segregation. This symbol shows us that in this situation more than something or something is not working well. Besides, if we study the investigations, we see that after the segregation, there is a concept of family indexing. After this reflection, I would like to remark that having a system of education where 52%,1 is a public network, and that the bond under the pact is not an ingredient, but a balance. But what is most disturbing is, that under this proprieties there is an excessive excuse, that is to say, education answers as a constitutional principle of freedom to instruction. And when we decide, the liberty of teaching ought to be amongst the public and private, which is certain. What the State has to guarantee is that the equality of education, the neuter, the latic, and the absence of any doctrine. And all these principles can only be restored to public education. Por lo que que ser la únicea financiada con fandos plublicos. On the other hand, I'd like to reflect on the situation that lived more than 30 years ago. And this reflection is related to the reality that lived at that time-that is to say, there was need for the public centres of Euskazan, which led him to consult several units in private centres, because the student's request was much greater than the public offer. They were therefore born with one sole object of education, to arrive at places where the public school did not arrive. But, of course, if the public network had once been opened and applied to all the orders to go to school, the educational authorities would have ceased to be necessary. But after three decades, reality is another: In the year 18th of May, 2017, we are discussing this legal proposal, in order to adjust the educational duties to the real cost. And what we're saying is we have to have the freedom to decide the school, of course. But for who? Because the liberty of deciding should be for all of us. Is there really a freedom to choose a school now? Together we don't think it's from Podemos. It seems to us that those who have fewer economic and cultural resources remain in the centers that are assigned to them from the Administration, but those who have most resources have the opportunity for a school which they want freely. The consequence is, that in public education the lower ingregations, the lower classes of education, and the students from without, are concentrated. In this sense, we want to make it clear that the argument of freedom to determine the school cannot be an occasion to produce segregation, because it is impossible for us to convert public education into a subsidy of private education or of compact education, and to reflect on the social differences of our education. Therefore, we vote against the other proposal of the law of education which has been presented to us by Poppular parties. And we demand the government to increase the finance of public euscal education, and to re-establish the treatys of schools which, moreover, do not respond to the wants of education. It seems to us, as we have said, that public education must be financed with public money. And, of course, we should take a thorough examination again, because the situation we're in is not the situation we're in now 30 years ago. I ought to praise the work of the scholars in his time, because it is really to be mentioned for the sake of the work they did to restore to the eucalyptus, fortunately, the education we have now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u108	Thank you, President. Look, without prejudice, Mrs Bengoechea, but from budgets other than those you set out in this rostrum, of course. And he's going to let me make a little description of where we are, and why we're in this situation all over Spain and here in Euskadi too. Since the mid-19th century – you will know it perfectly – private schools have been established in Spain. Concerted private centres were born with democracy, when the public system was expanded but at its birth, of course, public centres were absolutely inadequate and the system was very deteriorated. However, this was gradually changing, due to the high demand for schools that existed and the difficulty of covering the entire demand for public schools. And it is true that it was a socialist government, that of Felipe González in 1985, which, with the approval of the Organic Law on the Right to Education, established the criterion that where public centers did not arrive, a concert could be established with private centers, provided that they fulfilled a social function and functioned under criteria of gratuitousness and non-segregation in the admission of students. Criteria that today, in 2017, remain exactly the same as they were then in 1985, and we must say, unfortunately, that they are not always fulfilled as they should neither the social function nor the gratuitousness nor the non-segregation of the student. It is clear that it cannot be generalized, because it would not be fair, but there are still data, and we all know specific cases in one territory and another, in Spain and here in Euskadi, where the criterion of gratuitousness and the criterion of non-segregation is not strictly fulfilled as it should – and that must be controlled by the Administration –. Because they are charged, under camouflage of one type or another, different fees that make that center not free, taking into account in addition – which is something you have not mentioned but which seems important to me – that the teachers of the concerted network charge directly from the Administration, and it seems that that is the cost, by the way, most important that any educational center can have. Therefore, the rest of the costs are added to the essentials, which is the economically largest part of an educational institution. I hope you don't hear yourself talking, as you said not long ago, about the famous school cheque, which came to be to want to treat in the same way as who is unequal. And that's absolutely unfair. We must treat unequally those who are unequal, so that the treatment in the end is truly equal. That's an expression that Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo uses a lot, by the way. It can't be treated the same as the same. If they are not the same (and they are not, unfortunately; there are many people in Spain with many economic differences), they cannot be treated exactly the same, because what is done is to accentuate inequalities. Good. In any case, with this development that I was commenting on, since the 19th century many private centres have been set up, which have now been agreed upon as a complement to the public network. As a complement, not as substitutes for the public network, and always as a subsidiary of the public network, because that is the obligation of any public administration. And right now we are in a situation where most private centers have been arranged, with rare exceptions (the ones that are really elite schools), and they are hosting the educational concert. It must also be recognized that public schools have been improving quantitatively and qualitatively over this period, and we have always argued that this must continue to progress in this direction, and that is why we believe that we continue and want to continue to work on their improvement, so that it is really the axis of the Basque education system; that, as Mrs Zabala said, there are times when it does not seem so clear that the public school is the axis of the Basque education system, although it remains, in this kind of balance that we have in Basquedi between the private network and the concerted network, a little more the public network than the concerted one, but in any case, we have a situation that is certainly not comparable in the rest of Spain, nor in most of the countries of Europe. And what does our obligation have to be, as a public administration? To guarantee and defend the right to the best quality public education available to all children, by guaranteeing, or at least attempting, adequate public supply at all levels and educational modalities. Here in Euskadi we had a very specific and very concrete situation, which was that we did not have two educational networks, here we had three: the private one, the ikastolas and the public network. And that was why a special effort had to be made, first to try to bring the network of ikastolas into the public network, a good part of which did so, and then to try to maintain a balance that at first was almost survival of the public school in front of the concerted one, which could initially be more powerful. And that is the model that we have here in Euskadi, which has worked reasonably well but that we, at least the socialists, think that it has to vary in favour of public school, and therefore the public administration in Spain, and here too, will have to make a gradual effort of new public equipment, of new public schools, which will result in most of the existing demand being covered by the public network. On the other hand, we have seen that the school performance of public schools is not substantially different from that of concerted schools. It is equal or even better, because students achieve similar results in public and concerted centres, provided that they start from equal socio-economic conditions by making the comparison. Our aim, as we mentioned earlier, is to achieve this great educational pact culminating in a new Basque education law, in which, as it is now, the essential role of the public school is recognized, which guarantees equality of opportunity and is of quality; understanding the reality of the Basque education system, which has differential elements, and, of course, the right of families to enrol their children in a particular school. What we cannot allow is that there is no gap between networks or between educational institutions in the same community. In the end, what we are discussing here, what you are proposing today, is freedom of choice and the right to education. And that is why, in our amendment, we urge the Basque Government to establish the regulatory bases for the financing of the whole educational system, and to continue to deepen the adequacy of educational concerts. I do not know whether this involves more economic or non-economic input, or whether it involves more control of the money that comes to the agreed centres by the public administration, and of the conditions of enrolment, for example, and the requirement of control also of quotas, which sometimes are not charged in the way that should be done, if the private centres that exist in the community should do so. I believe that what is being raised is something very reasonable and could be perfectly acceptable to you. I know that you have done and – you have said this – want to make this a flag of political identification with regard to how you see education, and I understand it, but I also want to say that what we advocate in the amendment that we are presenting together with the Basque Nationalist Party reflects more than enough that criterion of rigour and clarity in establishing the criteria for funding the agreed network. And there is a caution that you have not named here but that you should always be in the public administration, and at least in the political forces that we claim from the left: you cannot confuse the right to choose the educational centre freely, and to have families receive public support, with using those funds to obtain not entirely lawful benefits in some centers, but to guarantee the education of children on equal terms. And there are cases – I acknowledge that fortunately they are not the majority – where one is not very clear whether when one asks for an increase in the educational concert that will benefit the increase in the educational quality of that center or the benefits of the center in question that has requested it. And that's why we have to be demanding and rigorous in controlling the financial flow that goes to these kinds of centers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good evening to all. This other proposition, as presented by the popular group, puts two elements on the table: on the one hand the definition of our education system, and on the other the condition of education. We believe both to have great connexions and relations, because our system is numerous, and we must consider its definition, whether the public or the compact of the network, and, indeed, the finance which belongs to each of them, together with several other matters. We believe that in defining our educational system, and we agree with the words of the counsellor in this regard, it is essential to seek an educational pact that culminates in a Basque education law in which the essential role of the public school is recognized, in addition to establishing, among other things, the regulatory bases for the financing of the whole educational system. A pact, moreover, which must be based on the joint reflection of all educational, social and political actors with the aim of promoting the development of our educational system. We must, among all of us, structure and strengthen the stability and quality of Basque education, deepening an inclusive and equitable education that advances towards excellence. We must consolidate an education system that is characterized by its stability, agreement and consensus, culminating in an agreed and inclusive Basque education law that responds to new demands and educational needs. We've always bet on public education system constantly improving. Thus, for us, the education system is global, and the two networks are composed of Communitypublic and U-Applic, in order to respond to the right which the Basque families have to choose freely. For the Basque Nationalist Party, the bases on which we believe it is possible to build an agreement in this regard are will, dialogue, participation, generosity, broad vision, the vision of the educational system as a whole, and also, of course, the vision of a country. Education must be considered for a long time, for changes to last, what society is in the future that we want. " Entendemos que la ley vasca de educaón es un instrumento, no un objectivo en sí." The goal would be to get a starting-point, to end or end a basic agreement, a education integration, and an agreed-upon. Moreover, excellence is also mentioned in the other proposition, as described by PP, and the inclusive school which is in this way, the party wagers for a direct and reformer. From the integral point of view of education aimed at our present society, we believe that the Basque educational system must continue to take steps in its quality towards excellence, through concepts such as coexistence, plurality, freedom of thought, the defence of diversity, peace, equality of opportunity and tolerance. An inclusive education system that would be reflected, among many other things, in a new Basque education law; an agreed – I insist –, consensual, inclusive law that responds to emerging educational needs. Needs such as, for example, the financing of educational institutions. As I have already shown, our educational system is composed of a public or compact network, which is why education is of great importance. In our group, we must continue to adapt the educational conditions and penetrate around them. I'd like to emphasize the word "Continue." Azpimarratu nahi nuke honen inguruan Gobernu Kontseiluak 2009ko otsailaren 3year izandako bilkuran onartutakoarekin bat egin behar dugula uste dugulako. To recall, the agreement carried out a shared analysis of the public funding of the agreed network, according to the improvements made in recent years in the public network. Although the ideal would be to reach consensus on a law of the Basque educational system, in that time it is inescapable to take steps towards an adequacy of educational concerts, deepening the educational and social commitment while, consequently, increasing the funding of this network. All I've been saying is that our team will support the full correction agreement with the Basque Socialists. In it, we proclaim the importance of our own education law, and, in spite of ourselves, we ask him to continue to adapt and to penetrate. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u111	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u112	Good afternoon, everyone. I don't want to doubt that the Popular party brought this discussion here. I'm very grateful to you for bringing this discussion here, but I don't know if you really wanted to make a serious reflection or because your team didn't have any other law to discuss it. And if it were, it would be sad, because the subject we have is very serious. In the end, we are speaking of the management of the public money, and we must manage it with great admiration, as if it were his own, with the transparency of making the greatest social utility, with the mechanism of control, clearly and distinctly for the use of it. And not to mention in education, because education is the best investment a people can make, for many reasons. Because it's education to advance the guarantee of a society, to be a pioneer among the nations, as well as the saying that in this country, there's a good chance to reduce the social, economic, cultural differences of the community, and to maintain the difference of choice. An intelligent government ought to have its object in searching for citizens, critics, creators, and so have a guarantee that it will advance like a people, and that it will have the best of all the fields to guide it. And for a society there would be a disease, a pharmaceutical epidemic, an education that would have the fundamental capital and column to prevent 66% of society. So the function of education is not the cough of a midnight goat, but unfortunately what we have seen in the past few years is that education, instead of considering investments, has been considered expense, and that from 2009 it is receiving enormous blows, axes. We haven't even got to an investment level in 2009. We clearly see that everything is not as important as investments and investment figures as investments, and that it invests in what it invests. And we also know that the EAE Education Department has to change the organization, management model, to conduct an investment until now. It's no good until now, and it's the reflection of that discussion today. We settle ourselves again in a knot, and it leads us nowhere. It must all end with the management we all know as "café para todos." It is necessary to increase an investment, but it is necessary to increase an investment, but to develop a project in a quarter of a district, or in a small town-we have a thousand characters, a thousand characters, and, in fact, our investment would have to be directed to it. We have brought several proposals from the beginning of legislation to reach this subject, in order to exceed the present pattern. We were asking for a diagnosis, on the indicators, to invest on certain indicators starting from the weakest school, and we've always been refused. Of course, we should need a backbone, some common criteria, but then let's go see how we develop our original education project in every place. The rules must also be clear and fill up the control mechanism which doesn't happen today. Look, Mrs. Bengochea, I agree with that. Rights and rights, but duties too, which do not happen now, unfortunately. It is necessary to combine the autonomy of students with the culture of duties and commitment. All this to all schools, which is fertility. All students must fulfil their respective function. They don't fill it? Well, no funding, but it's necessary, you have to do it, you have to do it, you have to do it, you have rights, but you can't act with public money. I don't think there should be any need to explain that public system, being the guarantee of educational rights, should be the axis of the education system. I guess that doesn't have to be explained. This does not remove the changes, the improvements, the improvements, of the public system, and the development of new times, which ought not to be made. As we must say, the schools that have a different fertility are also necessary. We also need schools that have other fertility, which, if the administration's targets are built, should receive public finances, which shouldn't be a problem for that, but which is complete. But it is also a crude reality, and that the complex reality of the educational system has increased in the course of the last few years, not only in order to adapt to new times and to resist them. And that, as society, we can't allow. It's a luxury. We should really study it thoroughly, and we must look for answers to the future for the best of our education system, but especially for the benefit of our country, because it is not intended to be automatically opposed to the public school, and vice versa. It is well, that we must start from the foundation we have, but we must learn from the past. And we must also consider what has been wronged in the past. But we must all advance, and what we can't do is to peck at each other, to be constantly despising each other. We have to define the roles, the functions of each one, the required, and to adapt the fund according to that. But with all transparency, respecting clear rules and rules of the game. I think everyone will be grateful. That's why it's a priority to let this knot go too. We have a lot of knots, and we have to release this too, but we don't engage in a war. That's what we can't do to free our financial complex, our principles, we can't swallow, we can't. First, we must establish our principles, our principles, and establish our finances according to them, but not on the contrary, not on the contrary. Therefore, I think we have simplified the discussion too much this evening, and so far we have put this discussion on the table, and have brought proposals to be reached from a strictly integrated point of view. And when we turn our eyes on this discussion, we cannot confine ourselves to France or Spain. Besides the examples of France and Spain, there are other examples in the world: Commercial Central Schools, or Finlands, or Hollanders, there may be a thousand examples there, and we'll have to build our own. We must build our own, we must release our knot, but not always falling into the same defects, and I think it may be possible for us to do so. But what can't be... Because today is very curious. We have a problem, what's the government planning on us? The law. Do we bring in another problem? The law. Forgive me, the law is not the solution of all things and the solution. The law is a frame, and in this frame politics must be defined. And the knots must be taken and the hinges must be reached. A law doesn't solve everything. The agreement is not the solution, it's not the solution. The agreement must have its content, and in this content it will be a good deal, it will be bad, it will be mediocre. And the law is the same. It looks like here... That we talk about the license plate? The law. We talk financially? The law. You mean we talk about immigrants? The law. You know what that is? Patadón and the rest, instead of dealing with the solutions, and not looking for answers. And if he really believes in the law, and we really believe that we need a treaty and a arrangement, there must already be heaps of them, and he must begin to talk about it, pondering it, thinking it over, for he takes time. The law, it seems, has become a magic potion. You mean we have a problem with the chemicals? Here's the magic potion, law. We have a problem with the funding? Here's the magic potion. And meanwhile everybody's mad, angry, there's trouble, and our education system goes back and forth, destroying what our community has built for years. So what we have ahead of us is the long route.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. On the answer turn, representing Euscal Popular Group. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u114	Mrs. Ubera, you don't know, for me, how serious this is. Now, let's see, is seriousness expressed (that I don't say you do, eh!) in releasing here a sheet full of words of five or six syllables, etcetera, etcetera and flying over, or is seriousness really swelling his tooth and putting real examples? There are things you have said that I totally agree with. Equal rights, equal obligations, full agreement. And if there is any deviation – which I'm sure there is, because the human being is as it is – let's control it, and make a request to the council that I control it. Mr Pastor has also said so, and I cannot agree more, of course. Equal rights, equal obligations, that's for sure. Mrs Zabala, I'm really sorry, but in your speech I have seen exactly what I was talking about prejudices, when I was saying that low-income people and immigrants are the ones who go to public school and so on. He left me with a lot of curiosity. I have to go to Zarautz and I have to visit the schools, really, because, in the end... it will be very funny, but in the end, apart from the knowledge we have, what gives us the pulse of people is to have gone to the places and to have seen them. So, I know many parts of Gipuzkoa, I assure you, because I have traveled a lot through Gipuzkoa, and maybe Irun is not a good example, but I assure you that in Irun public schools go middle class, normal and common, and – and that is one thing that we can ask the council to keep an eye on him well – immigrant people share a lot across all centers. There are some in which they are concentrated for a reason: for the linguistic model. We don't have model A, but we do have embarrassing models B (one only), which actually give the classes in model A. And it is true that there is a greater concentration there, but it is because of a linguistic problem. The only one! But I really have to go to Zarautz, see if public schools really go only to immigrants and low-income people, because then Irun is very rare! In Irun to the public school goes middle-class people. And I'm telling you, it sounds really funny, but it's that in the end what you have to touch is meat, how things are. We could start here making big speeches with very long words... well, if we make them in Basque, with those new words invented, which have six or seven, we were going to stay in cinema, in cinema. But I tell you, my children, my married daughter, pure and hard middle class fortunately, working both, are going to take your daughter to public school in model D. Is that you're scaring me! I mean, really, seriously, your intervention has, in my poor opinion, been pure and harsh prejudice. Mr. Pastor, there is one thing Mrs. Ubera has said that she is absolutely right: the problem is not so much of... Well, excuse me, one thing, Mrs. Zabala: I don't know if they stay in Alava, but in Gipuzkoa, when you talk about private schools, in Gipuzkoa there is none. I mean, there's not a single private school out of that third network in Gipuzkoa. They're all arranged or public. Who said that, José Antonio Pastor? No! The Giant Pili said it! Well, to conclude, then, please, I repeat, beware of prejudices, and equal rights, equal obligations. We agree with that. And another thing I agree with Mrs. Ubera is that the law is not going to be the panacea of everything. Remember what Romanos said: "Let them do, let them make the laws; let them let me make the regulations." That has been, in politics, a saying that has been heard a lot. The law is not going to be the panacea of everything. What is going to be, not the panacea – because life, as I said this morning, is effort and gradually releasing knots – is to dispense with all we can from our prejudices, not to have mania in half of the Basque families. Because there are times when I detect here that there may not be groups, but there are people who have mania in half of Basque citizenship, in half of Basque families who choose the concerta. Please, let's not get mad at them. They don't deserve it. Among other things, because we are many of us. And, as I said before, equal rights, equal obligations, and vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together represent Podemos. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u116	Good afternoon, again. Just to answer. Mrs. Bengoeche, you've discussed this. And you've only got to go and see the schools of the Riverlands. We made a visit recently, and there are some classes of students, mostly from the outside. And that, I don't know somewhere in the gym... But in many of the towns of Euskal Autonomy in Erdigo, that's what happens in many schools. You've even handled me with the Z rules. Yes, you see, I'll discuss it: There's just a public tax school right next to the Civil Guard barracks. My kids don't go to that place. And from the moment they were born, I said to my husband: "I'm sorry, but I won't take our children to that school." And unfortunately, there are a lot of public schools in this town near the Civil Guard barracks. We should think about it. Then you told me something else about private schools. Well, there are private schools, too. There are few, but there are. And, yes, I would like to discuss that the choice of the school is a right and that the freedom of election is very important, because here we sometimes proclaim that freedom, but it is concealed from us that we don't often want to be involved in society, that is to say, by declaring the liberty of election of the school, that those who don't want to have a social education are not to have their children mixed with other classes of society. In order to finish it, I'd like you to tell me that we're going to have to give this problem a solution to all of us. And it has not been before or not, but it is plain that in this law we must examine all the circumstances we have over our table, and, if possible, we must renew the Law of the Public School of Euscal. The treaty has been mentioned here in the history of education. It is time to examine again the different facts that we now have, and, as has been discussed, the café para todos cannot be, because each state has its own experience and must be treated in this experience. And all solutions will not be the same from a small town or from a great capital or from a population. We have just spoken of the condition of La Milangros of Barakaldo, and there were 22 different nationalities. It is clear that this rule does not happen, but there are places where we see events like this, and we must naturally give them a suitable solution, because, as has been said before, a people who invests in education will go on with it, and will not be willing to do anything in the world. And in our turn, at least, what we want is to put on a proper investment in this country, and above all what I have said from the beginning, to take the public school on the axis, to take the public school on the axis. And the defence of the public school doesn't mean that we don't want compact schools or that we have something against these schools. But, of course, we want a public school with public funding.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u118	From the seat, if you don't mind. Well, I've heard some tremendously picturesque expression from Mrs. Zabala, which I'm not going to comment on to leave you in the category of anecdote. I wanted to focus on what we're looking at. I sincerely believe – without any prior prejudice, Mrs Bengoechea, believe me – that the amendment we are submitting is a very reasonable, very balanced amendment, which speaks of two issues on which everyone would have to agree that it is important to support. One, the need for an educational pact, and the other, that the criteria for the allocation of public funds be met with the necessary rigour and through the inspection and evaluation of the destination of these funds. I do not think that there is anything that cannot be exploited in either of the two points. Therefore, it is only up to me to ask Mrs Bengoechea not to be the one who has prejudices, and to maintain the pruritus, at last, you can vote perfectly on this compromise amendment that we have tabled by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u120	Good afternoon, again. Well, in this second round, I would like to reiterate that education for any government is a central issue on your agenda, and, of course, for any society. And it's also for ours. Any intervention in this regard, whether to speak of funding or of any other area of education, implies the maximum consensus and agreement, both of the educational agents and of the political forces present in this House. We believe that this agreement, which would subsequently be translated into a Basque law of education, is necessary and essential in order to respond to new demands and educational needs. In this case, the topic of financing the concerted centres has been put on the table. Gaur sakontzeko deia egiten dugu, bakuitzaren papera argi uziz, finantzazioa birpasatuz eta lege berri batan bidez hori guztia egiteko. I agree with Mrs Ubera that the law is not the panacea, that is, it is not going to solve all the problems, but in the discussion and debate about that law you can put on the table a lot of issues that, after all, will have an answer and will have room and will be reflected in the law itself. I would therefore like to reiterate our position. I agree with Mr Pastor that this is an amendment that can be accepted by the vast majority of groups in this House, and I invite all of them to join it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. And finally, EHG Team rep. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u122	There's a lot of trouble and challenge in our hands. multiple treatment, scholarships, solid textbooks program, investment, planet, jubilation, replacements, school map, license. I can go on for a long time. I don't know whether you really intend to bring the bill or not. I don't know. I don't know if you're using the law as an excuse to get all the problems or challenges I've mentioned. I don't know. All I know is that they're crowding in trouble, need, need, not just as a school, like a society, and that these problems must come to them and come to future roots. And if the bill is the way to all these problems, to all these challenges, please bring them as fast as you can and begin to fix the problem and reach the hinges. Please, I'm asking you to do that. But before a challenge again, don't put the law in front of a problem like a magic potion. Don't sit down. Let's bring it in and begin our discussion, see if this government begins to move with all our challenges and all our problems, and is able to react and give answers to the unit of education. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 8; opponents of the contrary, 65; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u124	So it's not accepted. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u125	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we'll vote for a correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; in favour of 37; the contrary, 17; white, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-05-18.u126	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon.
