ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The examination of the Committee of Incompatibility, of the Mailian Guurga, of Estíbaliz Larugue, Begoña Othalora Ariño, Rachel Molina Pérez, and Javier Ruiz de Cerbulo legal compatibility. Discipline and final resolution. Some member of the board wants to talk... ? No. There's a band of parliaments that want to vote for the judgment... ? No. We will simply vote the resolution of the union committee, except those members of the legislature to refer to the judgment, the rest of the legislatures. We'll go to the vote. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 64; the supporters 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0; 0; Abspentsion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u1	So the judgment remains unanimous. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law made together by the parliamentary Podemos, the development of the Public Esquire by the Euskal Radio Company, to the change of the 5/1982 Law. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. On the other hand, who wants to participate, apart from the Podemos team... ? You don't... No one else. So, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u2	This week it is up to us to talk again about EITB for reasons which are in principle outside the subject that we are bringing here today. The first thing we would like to ask for is a little measure, it will not be that some are more interested in charging against our Basque public radio-television at the service of strategies of harassment to the public in general, or also to fuel cultural and identity wars that do not find reflection in the streets of Euskadi. We said it and repeated it: it is a mistake in the use of the humorous record that gives rise to confusion, and that, skillfully mounted for dissemination on social networks, it might seem aimed at offending and laughing at the Spaniards. Little grace for some who may have felt offended. Since the mistake has been acknowledged and the apologies have been asked, let us please address today the reform of EITB that we bring here, and that seeks only to equip its excellent professional staff with means for the development of its career in the service of Basque citizenship without political interference of any kind. Because it has been political interference at the service of the party that has missed the possibility of having a public reference medium. In Euskadi we must build a media space that is acceptable to European standards, for which it is essential to update the EITB Act with regard to its board of directors and the Director-General, its composition and functions, and the powers conferred on them by law. We understand that it is essential to de-governmentalize the public media, thus ensuring its independence and pluralism and the quality of its contents. In line with these objectives, the current system of governance, which dates from a law that has become obsolete, must change in this legislature. The choice of persons on the board of directors should be made on the basis of professionalism criteria in a transparent and public process. The current quota system simply duplicates, in the balance of the Governing Council's forces, the same balance of forces in Parliament. We believe that this is not a good system to ensure the independence of the board of directors in the exercise of its functions, but to ensure political control, which is entirely incompatible with professional management. Beyond the grandiose statements we have heard about the reform of EITB (refoundation, new model of management, modernization, etc.), we propose with this bill a series of concrete and realistic measures, which serve as a starting point for the necessary reform that all groups claim to want. For example, we started with the reform of the board itself. As the text states, the board of directors would be composed of eleven persons, six of whom would be elected to Parliament, respecting, of course, gender parity, in such a way that the number of women is equal to or greater than that of men. Candidates must appear in Parliament to endorse their suitability. The other five members of the board of directors would be elected as follows: three by the social council – which I will then discuss – and two by the working people of the public body. Gender parity would also be respected in this election. Candidates for board membership shall be required to certify a recognised professional background in the field of communication and audiovisual. We also propose to extend the term of office to six years, so that they can exercise it without being subjected to the times of political life, with their electoral cycles, and those of Parliament. On the other hand, we argue that at the end of this period the renewal of the board of directors should take place within a period of not more than three months. The Management Board also has functions and a voting mechanism that has made it difficult in practice to approve preliminary draft budgets. We propose to amend the article that corresponds to this election to speed up this process, which would require an absolute majority in the second ballot for its approval. In addition, we bet on a professionalization in the governance of the entity. The appointment of the Management Board would be made on the basis of the various proposals of the parliamentary groups jointly submitted to the Bureau of Parliament. Candidates on the board of directors should, as we said earlier, have a recognized career path. We believe that the best way to depoliticize EITB is to make the board of directors a body composed of communication professionals, following the model of countries such as the United Kingdom or Norway. We are also talking about the creation of a new body, the social council, a maximum body of management and internal control, through which civil society could participate in the establishment of the general principles of public television management and monitor its implementation. This body would be composed of fifteen members, and its composition would, of course, be parity. It is clear that the lack of a proper communication law makes it impossible to set up a Basque audiovisual council, whose functions would be to monitor, control and sanction the social media. As long as this happens, our commitment to the participation of civil society is concrete in the creation of this social council. It would be the responsibility of the social council to establish the main lines of the contract-programme, to ensure compliance with the right of access, and to assess the performance of the public service. On the General Directorate, which has also been a subject for everyone lately, we propose a system of election by public and project-based call. The Director-General would be appointed by the Management Board, which would elect by public invitation to this Directorate on the basis of its curriculum and the project it presents under the principles of equality, merit and capacity. It is not acceptable that EITB's management has consistently fallen on people whose only merit has been that of having a certain notebook. On the other hand, we also propose some amendments, such as the fact that this Directorate-General attended the meetings of the Management Board with a voice but without a vote. And with the same criteria of professionalism, transparency and free competition, we propose that those who hold the leadership positions of our public television station be elected, and also that they be obliged, like the Directorate-General, to a regular accountability in the oversight committee of this Parliament. And we would also add that knowledge of the Basque language was mandatory for the appointment of the Directorate-General. Finally, we also include Parliament's qualified majority reprobation as a ground for ceasing the Directorate-General. It is also not acceptable that those who have been censored by the majority of the political representatives of the Basque Parliament continue to exercise their functions as if nothing had happened. These are, in essence, the proposals to amend the EITB Creation Act that Elkarrekin We can bring to debate today in this House for its proceedings, collecting recommendations, diagnoses and guidance from experts from the public media, working people, trade unions and other agents. We believe that these are concrete, realistic and viable proposals that serve as a starting point for landing ideas of participation, transparency, independence and accountability. We are aware that they must be subject to discussion and debate, that they can be improved and that we have certainly been able to leave relevant aspects unanswered. But today, fulfilling our obligation and our commitment to Basque citizenship and the people who work in EITB, we bring them here to start once and for all. We have said it and repeated it: the reform of EITB is behind schedule, which seems unacceptable to us. The time has come for all parties to show their real commitment and put on the table concrete proposals that can be discussed in this same legislature, acquiring the commitment to reform the EITB Creation Act. So far we have only heard statements of intent, but we have not seen any concrete results. Is there anything we have in this bill that does not seem to them to make EITB fulfil its public service mission on the basis of mechanisms that encourage participation, independence, transparency and accountability? In this regard, we also do not share the arguments put forward by the Government in its opinion. We do not understand why we should wait for the EITB reform paper to complete its work to initiate legislative reform. We see it perfectly compatible that the work of this paper is complementary to those of the law reform that we propose to you today. On the other hand, we have already said when we debated and voted for the creation of the paper that we did not think it was right that deadlines should not be set, since our duty is to give an urgent response to citizens' demand and to that of EITB professionals. To claim now that in order to reform the law it is necessary to wait for the presentation to give an opinion again is another strategy of delay whose only objective is that nothing changes in the current model of EITB. In fact, it has been several weeks since the creation of the paper was approved, and no step has been taken towards its constitution. On the other hand, the agreement reached by the Government with the People's Party for the creation of the paper does not expressly mention the reform of the EITB law, which is another sign of the absolute lack of will in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u3	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Since there are no reverse shifts, we'll go to the vote. (stopping) Now that the discussion is over, we will put it to the vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 11. The contrary, 46; white, 0; abstainments, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u4	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. In the name of the Popula Party, Mrs. Llanos, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. To explain the meaning of the negative vote cast by my group. Indeed, we can agree with the proponents that it is necessary to discuss EITB and amend EITB. Not only to modify it: we believe that it is necessary to turn it completely. Because, while other public television stations have carried out comprehensive reforms, they have revised their model, their structure, their dimension, they have tried to adapt to the new technological challenges, here we have gone to pieces, and the changes that have been made have been minimal and partial. Firstly, we also agree with the statement of reasons for the proposal put forward: that it is necessary to update its model in order to bring it up to European television and to bring it back to hearing. Because we cannot forget that these have been falling month by month, until they have reached quotas that have not risen from 10%. That is to say, in four years we have lost 24 % of the audience. It is also necessary to modify it so that it is a reference television for all Basques and Basques, because at the moment we are not even for Basques, much less for young people. And, of course, an amendment to the EITB is necessary in order to truly respond to the principles of objectivity, impartiality, plurality and legitimization of our institutional framework and of our frameworks of coexistence and democratic values. We have denounced in this rostrum on many occasions the political and ideological bias, always on the nationalist side, which have not only the informative, authentic reports of the Government, but the rest of the institution's programming, whether it be programmes of gossip, documentary, humor, etc. What circulated over the networks last weekend, a summary of the programme broadcast a month ago, is unacceptable on any television channel, but in a public environment like EITB it should have led to the assumption of responsibilities and the resignation of the management of the entity in full. Sectarianism, contempt for Spain and the Spanish, insulting the feelings of many Basques and Basques who also feel Spanish and Spanish, is inconceivable and unacceptable on public television. As we have said on many occasions, EITB is a nationalist television for nationalists, which wants to turn all Basques and Basques into nationalists. And now we've taken one more step. Now it is also a chain that wants to contribute to the contempt and hatred of everything Spanish. We therefore believe that it is true that a thorough debate should be opened on the principles to be promoted, on the strengthening of its public service character, on its organisation, its functioning, its modernisation, its financing, its transparency, its plurality and so on. We raise that debate in this House. We are presenting an initiative on this, and in this House we have agreed among all to the creation of a paper which I am asking from here to be set up as soon as possible. Because we had no intention of extending the issue; quite the contrary. That is why this presentation must be made as soon as possible. A paper dealing with all the issues to which I have referred and in which, of course, it will be the amendment of the law on the creation of the public body. That is why we have voted against the consideration of this proposal for a law, because we believe that in this presentation, after the joint debate, after the participation of all those groups that we believe should participate, it is where we must reach different conclusions and, if necessary, the amendment of the Law on Creation of EITB. We also disagree, as proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos, that parliamentary groups cannot be represented on the board of directors; that, as regards representatives of the Basques and Basques, and as we are talking about a public environment that must be controlled, we believe that this control can be achieved through that participation. The objective, it is true, is to depoliticize ETB, to ensure that ETB ceases to be an instrument at the service of politicians to become a public service instrument. But this is not depoliticized in the way it proposed or proposed this initiative, nor is it achieved by amending the law on the creation of the entity. Because the principles are very clear in that law, as they are in the style book, or as they were in the strategic plan; the bad news is that those principles have become wet paper. The bad news is that the entity's management does not take those principles into account at all. Therefore, in addition to amending the law in that paper, we must take steps to ensure that what has happened this week and what has been happening for too long in EITB does not happen. And that's why we're asking the entity's management for responsibilities from here again. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u6	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u7	Mila esker, andrea president. The social masters of the Euscala share a great number of cares and ends which are designed for the legal proposition: Administration Council, EIB Manager, and his choice, composition, functions, and handbills. We have not given up any purpose. But, too, we care and care about more radio and public television, and we want to discuss them again and solve them in the proposition. It was concluded by the origin of a report for the whole of EIB reform, as we said in discussion, that it requires a wider reform, if it wants to be a Resinct Rescal Res, heard in the future. It is in this sense, that the law-proposital is reduced to ends and propositions, as we say. That's why we voted against paying attention. And that is where we will focus the debate on this case. Socialists also reject any expression of sectarianism and contempt that harms different sensibilities and feelings, especially because, by making our own the words of the lehendakari, this is an offence not only to Spain and the Spanish and Spanish, but to all Basque citizens who feel Basque and Spanish. That is why this is not being resolved with a mere one-off amendment on the mechanism of choice of management and board of directors, a change my group has been calling for for for years. Then understand me when I tell you that we have voted against the proposal because, in addition to being limited in its reform objectives, it is out of time, and – I would add – out of the way. We believe that the legal reform they were proposing has been short and out of date, because this House has opened the door not only to the changes it is proposing, but to more and quieter changes. By making a brief account over time, the proposing group knew that in November the need for a comprehensive review was signed in the government agreement; that shortly afterwards the People's Party saw the opportunity to create a paper for this comprehensive reform, and that was approved, and even that other groups in this House, in all this debate, presented their proposals for a reform that is not short on objectives and measures, but much more comprehensive. Because the debate on the problems of choice, composition, functions and powers of management has already taken place. And that's why we think he was out of time. And it is out of the question because we understand that this reform must be carried out in the paper; that I do not know if all the communications have been read, but it is not that nothing is known: it is constituted on the 20th day in the EITB Control Commission. I mean, when we read the call, we already knew that some step had already been taken. The Socialists defend that the direction of EIB ought not to depend on the decision of the government, whatever it may be, in its proposal, or in the maintenance of it, or even when the political majority considers its resignation. We defend the Socialists to reduce the members of the legislature to more groups and social entities, and to give their views on the management of the organization. So, all the reasons, which I believe have been made clear, this debate will take place in the paper. The paper has a proper pace; we sit on the 20th to do the work plan, and if we really want to get what we all said in the debate that took place for the creation of the comprehensive reform paper, we will agree that we will get it. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we will find ourselves in this debate, because many of these proposals have already been made by other groups, and I am sure that we will succeed in doing so: making legal reforms and consensus to reform Basque public television.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u9	Good morning, everyone. EITB needs reform, and I think we're all on that. That's why we agreed to form or form a potentiality, and we believe in it... or that this power ought to be employed in the execution of such controversies. In this respect, among many other things, there must be spoken of EIB, and we must also discuss the matter of the administration, the nature and nature of the administration. For us too, the administration will require changes. And of the 13 articles of this law-produce which has been introduced to us, it must be said that the Basque Country agrees with some of the assembled towns, not with others, and that it has also missed other articles. But, as we have already observed, this power must be the place for such discussions. We'll have to discuss EIB, we'll have to discuss the administrative committee, we'll have to discuss, after all, the preparation and improvement of our main public media. But above all, of the measures which we make to prevent events such as those of the last few days, and which, after all, they do. But not by the measures which this government imposes on us to control what content it does not desire, but by its quality, its independence, its neutrality, and its criteria of a public extension. We need not talk about prohibiting the contents which this government does not want or does not like, but of programming, of content, of dispersal and dispersal of political intervention. Such things must be avoided, because in a public media there is nothing more shameful than prudence to give to the freedom of expression, the green light of the censorship. It is difficult to see how a government announces the measures of censorship in a program of humour which it does not like. These still depredation ETB, and we believe that this is the chief want and hindrance of ETV at the moment. It is difficult to see how a government announces the measures of censorship, what its influence is, what an advantage it has, or what an advantage it is capable of, in spite of political interests. For such reasons especially, we ought to speak of EIB and the Administration. Independence, objective, we use adjectives like quality; we often use BBC and the like, and then suddenly the director is ready to apply what is injurious to EIB, and to the President. The President of a country seems to have nothing to do but to direct what has been said in another mood program. It also expresses the rank of this government, which is shameful, weak, and amusing itself in such whispers, rather than in others. Finishing up... We must, therefore, as we have said, speak of the meeting of the administration; we must speak of EIB, but we formed a frame for it; and therefore the representation of this law-proposation for us at the present moment has no meaning for us. Let us take this dispute to the perfection we have formed, and there we shall have the whole occasion to talk. And what we can say is that the Basque Country will be assembled in order to be able to do all the changes that must be made in the administration committee for its own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u10	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u11	Yes, good morning, everyone. I shall make an explanation of the votes, and shall explain our opinions very readily and quickly, upon three points. Bat. The debate on comprehensive reform in this House was recently completed, and the majority of the House has decided that the work should be carried out within the framework of a presentation. It would also point out that this decision was taken without any vote against. Two. The presentation is called to start its work in the EITB Control Commission on 20 March, i.e. in ten days' time. Therefore, no spirit of delay, but quite the contrary, to start work immediately on 20 March. Like I said, in ten days. Three. One of the aspects that we must address in this debate for comprehensive reform is undoubtedly the legal framework. But not only in the partial reform of 82 as proposed, but also in the analysis and revision of the entire regulatory framework and its consequences in the model of public audiovisual service that we want..., that we have and that we want. That is, we must take into account and talk about the Audiovisual Communication Directive; the General Audiovisual Communication Act; the 1982 Law on the Creation of EITB; Law 6/2012 on the Flexibilization of the Management of Autonomous Televisions, and for sure many more normative and legal documents that affect us. But also our aim is to achieve, as has also been said here, a quality television, a transparent television, an independent television, and for that we must take care of three fundamental factors, and not all of them depend on the EITB: the democratic culture of society is also fundamental for us to have a quality public audiovisual service; the stability of funding, which I have already talked about in the previous debate and I will not return, and of course the necessary internal governance counterweights in any body, and more public. So, it's a discussion, but respecting the decisions that this Chamber has made. We're going to start at the 20th of the month, and I really hope we all come by the construction plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspilla Group, on the reductions of Esscal families. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs Garrido, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u13	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. We introduced an interpelation to the chief of two weeks ago, about the reductions we saw in the company of the Basque families, and we remarked that in this interference the family policies were not a priority to the Basques, and we gave precise facts. Family policy should be a priority for any government and a priority for this government, for the Basque Government, but, as we noted in the previous full monitoring session, when we put the question to Councilwoman Artolazabal, we saw that it is obviously not a priority for this government, and we have many doubts about it. I recalled the other day in my speech a very illustrative report on the situation of families in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Ararteko, in 2014, specifically the report "Family support policies in Euskadi. Analysis and proposals." Of course, these data – and it is also a recent report – have to lead us to reflection. What has surprised us is that, with this 2014 report, this Executive has not taken decisive steps to boost family policy. Because we also have to say that in this area of support to the family the Executive started with very bad feet, when we knew in 2014 that the support to the families was cut, in the budget, by half (the departure dropped from 30 million to 17.5 million), and then there was also a specific resolution saying that the departure was exhausted and, therefore, all the requests made that year 2014 from February remained unanswered. A eso hay que sumarle también que este Gobierno... That he's made more restrictions, and, despite the reduction in an additional disposition of criticism, with a government of the Socialist Party, the government has continued to reduce that constraint. The cuts in family policy we have to say clearly that they have been consolidated with the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, that 7 % cut in the additional provision of successive budgets in the last legislature. In the sixth additional provision, the reduction relates to all budgeted amounts; specifically, conciliation aid is expressed in paragraph 2. And we also understand that this 7 % cut in the amounts follows, since in the seventh additional provision we talk about that during the 2017 financial year the amount of income guarantee income in any of its modalities, for living units... "is applicable for the financial year 2016". That is to say, the increase of 1.5 is made in relation to the decrease of 7 % in the amount. In other words, they follow the amounts in the same terms as they were cut in the previous legislature. That is why we are clearly talking about consolidating the cuts with the Urkullu government also in this legislature. When we talk about family policies, and considering that the family is a vertebrating element of society, an element of cohesion, it is one of the main institutions that we have, that it is true that we have different models of family, with their own peculiarities, we have to talk about designing comprehensive policies to support families from different public administrations and public authorities. These include measures of an economic nature, in addition to those to which the Ararteko report referred earlier makes a very special reference, since they have a very clear and very direct impact on the increase in birth rate. Above all, reference is made to the impact of conciliation aid on the increase in birth figures, and comparative studies are carried out on experiences in other countries of the European Union. And it must also be remembered that precisely in Euskadi we have a very important birth problem. We are in one of the oldest societies not only in Spain, but in Europe. We are with many young people who want to emancipate and do not emancipate. 17% of families with a head under thirty-five years of age do not have the children they would like, for economic reasons or for not being able to care for them. And emancipation rates are more delayed than elsewhere: 30% (and even that percentage sometimes reaches 40%) of young people have not started having their own life plans. Therefore, the People's Party, seeing the data, having seen the facts of this Government, clearly sees that no progress has been made in family policy. We refer to the facts: I have referred to the cut in aid for conciliation, I have referred to cuts in the amounts provided for in the additional provisions of the four budgets of Mr Urkullu of the last parliamentary term and also in the draft budgets referred to in this parliamentary term in the first year. We are also referring with this data to the non-compliance with the forecasts of the III Inter-Agency Family Support Plan itself, of which we do not yet know its evaluation; we are talking, on the other hand, about the absence of the fourth family plan, and we are talking about the fact that we know nothing of that multi-year investment that Lehendakari promised us in March, during the pre-election period. There was specific talk of a strategy to support the family and children, but what is relevant in the words of the lehendakari is that there was no talk of a strategy to support the family and children, but that strategy was accompanied by a significant budget increase which at that time amounted to 200 million euros more than there had been so far. And we have to say that, unfortunately, in these budgets we have seen nothing, not even a tiny part of those millions that Mr Lehendakari announced to us. On the other hand, we also see and perceive a certain delay in this Government in relation to family policies. Because Mr Toña, in an inquiry that we also put to him in the last parliamentary term, pointed out that the fourth family plan was not going to be forwarded. It was to be referred, but within the strategy, because that strategy for children and families was more ambitious, and that plan was to be multi-year, interdepartmental and inter-agency. We were even talking about a draft, and we don't know anything about that draft. And on the other hand, I have to say that Mrs Arrizabalaga, a member of the Basque Nationalist Party, also has to do with another debate but also has to do with family policies and conciliation, such as permits, which we are going to have later in today's session, was talking about the fact that, as Lehendakari advanced in the general policy plenary (this was said on 25 February last year), "the main strategy for the family and children that the Government is developing on this issue will soon be presented." That is to say, the Government has announced matters relating to family policies, apart from the cuts I have reviewed, which have not arrived in this House and which we have no news of. It is true that the councillor, both in the first appearance in explaining the general lines of the department and in the appearance of budgets, made a reference – we have to say that a little vague, but that then it has been realized when seeing the government agreement and seeing the government program for the current legislature between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party – that they limit themselves to increasing by 50% the aid to families with sons and daughters, gradually extending the financial aid for the second son from two to three years. That is to say, this is the programme, this is the commitment, the only commitment that we see from this Government in relation to family policies. Nor do we have much credibility in this government, when it is announcing to us that family strategy of which there is a draft, which is announced by the lehendakari in the general policy plenary of 2015, which was the last full of general policy, which tells us here Mrs Arrizabalaga in a debate in February last year that will also arrive soon... I mean, we also don't have much credibility and trust in a government simply because this is written in a government agreement, because we also see that many times the words of this government are carried away by the wind. In any case, this aid and this commitment to this 50% increase for us is insufficient. We think we need to go a lot further. We believe that much more needs to be done in principle to eliminate the 7 % reduction in the additional provision, which concerns birth aid per child and conciliation aid. That is why, and by reviewing it and placing it in a concrete text to re-claim the issues that we have repeatedly requested of this Executive, we once again call on the Basque Government to forward the evaluation of that III Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support. It is necessary to have the evaluation of that III Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support, which in addition to many aspects has not been complied with. I believe that it is important to have it also in view of the shortcomings of the Basque Government, and not only that, but also for the elaboration of this new plan which will be included in the strategy of the family and children, of which there is supposed to be a draft but, as I say, it must have been lost in the transfer of powers. On the other hand, on a third point, we are talking about increasing the budget allocated to family policies, and in particular all that has to do with financial aid per child and by conciliation. With regard to the amendments tabled – and I am finishing, Madam President – on some points raised by the Elkarrekin amendment We can agree, especially because some points are literally the points that we raised in our initiative. But we would have liked a greater degree of concreteness as regards the increase in aid to families, the economic aid, which we have not seen in the amendment. In any case, I also make a new appeal to dialogue and to continue the talks that we have also begun. With regard to the two parties that support and sustain, which support the Government, I would also like to say that in one of the points the proposals of the People's Party, such as the III Inter-Agency Family Support Plan, such as the referral of the fourth plan within that strategy... It is true that we are talking about this session. I mean, if we already had a draft, well, it seems that it did not have to be very difficult to put "at this session" forward this strategy, but you have omitted that deadline and have referred to "as soon as possible". And on the third point, which is the commitment of the government agreement and the commitments for this parliamentary term, we have to say that it seems insufficient to us, especially because they talk about increasing 50% of the aid for sons and daughters, extending it progressively from two to three years, but they talk about throughout the parliamentary term and only for the second child. And we already tell you, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party (also now of the Socialist Party, which is in the government), because we do not have much confidence that you will meet this forecast, because I have to say that many of the announcements and forecasts and commitments made by this government in relation to promoting family policies have not been met. I will be careful to see what is being held up by the groups, and to see if there can be a rapprochement in the line of going a little further or far beyond that specific proposal which they have raised, of the 50% increase, both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u14	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u15	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I will explain the position of our political group, why we are submitting an alternative amendment to the motion before us and why we have finally reached an agreement with the EH Bildu group. And I think Mrs Garrido will understand why we couldn't reach an agreement with them and why not with the government. For our group, policies aimed at families or living units must move away from policies focused almost exclusively on economic aid, especially in a society characterized by inequality, by a double inequality: economic-social inequality, and gender inequality. And we say this because, being supporters – and I would like to make this clear from the outset – and being in favour of supporting families both by birth or by adoption and especially those intended for reconciliation, we see with danger the approaches that reduce the so-called policy of supporting families to give certain amounts of money, without actually seeking to address the causes that motivate many families not being able to develop or even meet their needs, and others, the least, can do so. And both in the justification for the question behind this motion by the People's Party and in the debate that Mrs Garrido had with Mrs Artolazabal, it seems to us that in the end the issue was reduced – and we see it today – to the issue of economic aid. And for us the debate on family support policies cannot end up being the debate on the amounts of concrete aid, however important this aid is. I believe that in the diagnosis we make of the country, and therefore in the diagnosis we make of families, we do not agree, but neither do we agree on the solutions that must be given to this problem. In the face of those who seek to influence birth with policies around gift checks or newborn checks, we believe that only by doing a public policy aimed at meeting the needs and rights of people can we really address the policy of supporting families and therefore also address the issue of birth. The problem is not that we don't have children (in a world where the population is still growing, too). The problem is that in Euskadi most young people cannot have children – and this has been said and it is true, I agree – on economic and labour issues. Because it has also been said here that because they cannot care for their children, but they are not told why they cannot be cared for. And most people can't attend to them because of the issue of work, because of the capital-work contradiction present in the lives of most people. As much as we have aid of 400, 500 or 1,000 euros (to which, as I say, we are not opposed), this will not solve the problem or tackle the real issues on which we have no children. It's not going to be solved if we don't have access to housing; it's not going to be solved if we have a job you don't know if you're going to continue in nine months; it's not going to be solved if you know that by taking a child's care cut you're going to have problems at work or even get fired, and it's not going to be solved if working hours are incompatible with school hours. It is not solved without quality public and free education since the age of zero. And at this point I wanted to use to show the support and solidarity of our political group, of our parliamentary group, with those who are demonstrating today, are mobilizing throughout the State for an education like that which I describe, public, free and of quality since the age of zero. And, of course, we will not effectively address a policy of support for families if, in the end, all the measures that we adopt end up being absolutely ineffective against a reality that yesterday, 8 March, all the newspapers spoke of: that it is the woman who reconciles or the one who directly ends up taking over practically all the reproduction, care and household work. We believe, therefore, that we must focus on labour rights. Only with stable, dignified working conditions, and in which maternity or paternity are not treated as a problem by companies, will we be able to give safety to anyone who wants to have offspring, adopt it or welcome it. We will not be able to do this as long as employment policies are limited, as they are now limited, to encouraging job creation from the outside, in a labour market characterized by the brutal imbalance between employers and workers, even if the reserve army can be reduced by less than 10%, as proposed by the Basque Government. People do not accept aid because of the labour market. It is true that there will then be a debate on maternity and paternity leave and, therefore, I do not want to go ahead with that debate. It is also true that we should reduce regular working hours without reducing wages, because, if not, conciliation will not be possible. Nor will we be able to address a policy of support for families if we do not talk about housing, and this cannot be done as long as housing remains a market object and not an object of primary need. And nowadays, even with everything that's been done, it's still like this. And only if we educate boys and girls on equal terms can we have a future of shared responsibilities at home. And this is impossible to do as long as the girls and the boys see the exit of the school almost always women, in reduction of the day many times, and instead to their father as the one who returns from work at the end of the afternoon, when the duties have already been done. That is why we insist on free public education from the age of zero and in public spaces where we can care for children. It is only by increasing the care network for older persons that we can cover the need for their assistance without, as is the case today, mainly for women. These are some of the issues that are essential to our training, and all of them have a common root: greater public involvement, a powerful public sector, and a radical change in labour and social rights. We believe that some of these things separate us from some of you, especially those who present this motion, but we believe that we are also separated from the Government. While some are talking about tax cuts, we believe that in order to meet these needs, it is necessary to increase the tax burden, but to those who have the most and to large companies. Only with better and truly distributive taxation can sufficient income be guaranteed to cover needs. Some will tell us that it is not a quantitative question, how much to invest, and I agree. That's why I'm talking about politics, kind of politics. But it is true that also with greater investment these policies will be able to arrive at better port. And it is true that Ararteko has said that we are far from the European averages to which we intend to reach. Therefore, when we talk about policies to support families, in our opinion we should talk about employment policies, we should talk about housing policies, education policy, social policy, a very important policy for this issue, attention to diversity, and also, above all, a fundamental policy for this issue, the policy of equality. Our transaction and our original amendment are designed from this point of view, and while open, it seeks to move away from an initiative that places easy duties on the Government, which we think the People's Party has done by talking to it only about economic amounts. We want different policies, policies that challenge what is currently being done. The proof that the People's Party is not contesting the policies that the Government is doing is that the two initiatives that it is putting forward are finally very similar. They speak only of the amounts, which ultimately go to the specific aid; which I have already said at the beginning of my speech that we do not oppose, but we do not think that they are the centrality of the debate. For us, the centrality of the debate must be to make general and comprehensive public policies. Our initiative, therefore, without prejudice to the amounts to be allocated to benefits and aid, adds some important things: the fight against cuts in this area, greater attention to the most vulnerable family types, and, above all, we believe, the challenge to current policies. We try to mark with our initiative, or counter-initiative, some fundamental features for the development of policies called family support, so that the Government does not have the free hand to do what it wants. They would be: strong public structure to guarantee services and rights, and intervention in the labour market in the face of precariousness, inequality, and gender inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u17	Mrs. Chair, good morning. Good morning, everyone. You have often heard us say that we wish to produce feminists in the middle of human and well-being, and that we wish to produce politics which will produce worthy and vital lives, and which we place in the way of helping the Basque family. To the policy which they seek to establish in the midst of the people, the euscal families are strongly aided by enterprises. "The family is the material support and personal support of the education and development of individuals. The place for the first relations connected with the emotion and solidarity, and also for the subsistence of the watch. And the other person, the prepared person, assures us of entering into our social system, helping the general interest through their work and sharing." It is the interrogative of this report of his 2014, and, as he said about it, "To study the access of the pretty people to pay attention to their families, in order to protect their rights, means to take a universal view of them, as we are all to be members of a family. So the families are meant to protect all citizens." And it's true that when we saw this family protection initiative, we were so upset, especially when we read the contents. But while we were doing this, I read Braulio Gómezi the other day, speaking of this subject, that the groups on the left and right would do well to defend and protect the families, because that protection will be to improve the quality of children who form that family, and generally defend the life of their comrades. We may therefore place the defence of the family in the defence of the right of the right to promote worthy and vital lives. And in this respect, even in the course of equality and uniformity, we can make steps from the protection of the family, especially if we place the disputes of the watch-dogs in the midst of them. "Heistically, the mass of public measures for aiding families is composed of several administrative administrations, and several views, and consequently of present measures, are widely diffused and dispersed in his report." He also says that there is great ignorance. Today, in this community, to give family aid to the 13/2008 Law of November 12, and the III of the Institutions. We have a plan, and even if the evaluation of this plan is not yet in hand, all the indicators show that there are many things still to be done in this field. As the interrogator himself described in his report, there is a great distance between these policies which are more advanced and more protective than the most beautiful for the protection of the families of the Errical family, and those which have been encouraged in the countries of Europe around us. It's obvious that you'll all agree with me in these matters, too, that we all want to look into Central Europe. We have important challenges as a people in this sense, because in this community we have one of the oldest populations in the world, owing to the low rate of fertility and the high hope of life. In addition, we spend more than anywhere else here, and the rates of life are higher and higher, and there are serious difficulties for the union of family, labor, and personal life. Even the state of the trade has an amazing influence on that fertility rate. The great degree of precociousness and temporality which we now live is visibly contracting this rate of fertility. All this has a direct influence on the reduction of the rate of birth and the stability of the system of society. We're getting old, our society grows old. Within a few years we'll have to answer the evidence between genes, and in the answer to these challenges, the families are the necessary clabes. But many of them live now on a high stage. As it passes on other subjects, so it is now that we advance on the building of the euscal system to protect our families, by causing family policy. Some will be strictly and directly applied to the family; but on the other hand, there are other parts which must either be produced or shaken, and are that wide ring of pretty things that have a great influence on the family; the policy of equality, of employment, of social services, and of the politics of the police, of education, and all of them. This requires a plan and organization, a close co-ordination of planning, organization, and other systems. For the most effective policy to protect families is that of our party which produces public services, social employments, and a strong protection system. And in other matters we often hear the assertions about it, as the best politics of society are those which are concerned with the production of employment, but we are astonished at this. On the way to protect and develop specific policies to aid families, it must be admitted that great steps have been made in this member, especially as regards the rights and confessions of the family, and that we have established a series of legislation adapted to the new needs of families. But, as it often happens, from what we have written to us, to reality, to leap, even to distance, in these matters, the transition from word to writing is what follows. In this member of the community, we may say that the public wager for the growth of families, labor, and personal life, is still inferior, as we see, to a claret piece. I don't want to extend it around some of the things the old man explained in his report, but it's clear that it's still a long way to make it. In this sense, it seemed to us that today's initiative gave us a chance, as in other matters, to mark a path with each other, to mark the flights of paths from the consent. And I believe you will allow me, at least, that our party has made an effort, that he has made a firm effort on this matter as well as on other matters, and that the strategy we have to do, and the strategy which the government has foretold, should be carried on together. With all the groups we have attempted to discuss what's going to happen, but we have proposed a medium that was very fundamental for us, an agreement agreed with Podemos, and I believe that the position of different groups is not so distant, but that at the moment of concretioning they have some problems, or that each of us has its boundaries, and I dare say we shall find ourselves quite sure that we shall find ourselves again in that way. But seeing that it is essential for us to open the frame, to understand that these policies directed to families cannot be limited to economic aids and to small experience, that we are speaking of a much larger matter, and of a system, and in this sense it is very important, even in those other areas which affect the quality of life in the family, to produce narrow lines of co-ordination. And, further, it seems to us that in this strategy to be marked, because we all create the people, it is necessary that we should work together, and work with the persons who are important in these matters. And that's where we've come to our proposition. And, of course, we do not believe that such a protective system of families can be organized on restrictions, which is why it seems to us that if these and these policies have any real force, they must start from a real investment. So, if we stick to the Podemos proposition together, we've also agreed that the 7% cut to the funding is cancelled. As I said, I think that the position is not so far away, and that we shall find ourselves on the road, but in this discovery we believe that we must all find one another, that the agents must be a means without restraint, and that we shall find each other in a way by which the other paradigms and extensive politics are planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u19	Thank you very much, President. The Socialists recognize the importance of families as the core of the human relationship and of social, affective and community education, and therefore we are strongly committed to the development of policies that facilitate people with family responsibilities and those who want to constitute a family the realization of their vital project in the best possible conditions. No person is obliged to undertake a family project, but, likewise, no one should be obliged to renounce a project of starting a family for economic or labour reasons. And no woman should have to give up her professional career in order to have her children. The initiative refers to cuts in support for families; however, during 2015, 2016 and 2017 these cuts have not been carried out, as Mrs Garrido says. Bad week to talk about cuts, when there are already 50 million at the disposal of families to benefit from these aids, which is more than has been available so far. And it also coincides with the fact that we have known that in the area of conciliation aid the departure has not been exhausted last year. Giving money to help just doesn't encourage birth. I agree with Mr Hernández and Mrs Kortajarena. This is why what we are talking about gives us the reason why we have been insisting that our model of social protection and our proposals to promote motherhood must go far beyond aid. This will make it easier for women to make the free decision to be mothers, or it does not have much more to do with the quality of their employment, with the facilities that they and they have to reconcile, with the flexibility of working hours adapted to that need, with the possibility of being able to rely on teleworking in case of need, with which this factor is included in the collective negotiations as an essential element. The PP wants to make believe what is not: that there are cuts, against all budgetary evidence. The problem arose in the accumulated late payment, which was carried forward from the year 2013 and which was maintained during 2014, given that for that year the budget was cut to EUR 17.7 million (i.e. half of the amounts that had been approved budgetaryly up to that time), which was corrected after initiatives that were brought here, to this Parliament, and through the pressures that were made from the parties in reaching agreement on the 2015 Budgets. In this way, for 2015 the item was already 31,377 million euros, for 2016 of 32,577 million euros, and for 2017 of 32.5 million euros as well. The conciliation aid granted by the Basque Government to families receiving a reduction in the working day or leave for the care of children under the age of 12 or dependent family members recovered the pre-crisis budgetary level last year, despite the fact that there has been a decrease in demand for such aid. The Department of Employment and Social Policy paid 31,000 applications in 2016, with an expenditure of 32 million euros. This budget has not been exhausted, as I said, since the total amount budgeted was 32.5 million. 65% of them were households with incomes below €20,000 of standardized income, equivalent to about €42,000 per year in the case of a marriage with two children. The item also includes a funding line to hire a child caregiver, with only 400 applications. On a proposal from the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, Mrs Artolazabal, the Governing Council of last Tuesday, 7 March, approved a budget of EUR 27.57 million to finance the programme of support for families with children, which reflects the will of this Executive to provide protection and support to families. And, in addition, for 2017, 32.5 million have been budgeted for conciliation, as I said, maintaining the same level as in 2016. We cannot therefore talk about cuts this year in these aids. We must, however, take into account the change introduced in 2015, the income level criterion, which was introduced that year and which weighs family income according to the number of members, their composition and family income. It is a reform that was also applied to child birth aid, the main benefit granted to families in Euskadi. Such aid is a subjective right which is granted merely by reason of the fact that it meets the required requirements. Aid for conciliation, however, is subject to a budget. In summary, the Basque Government chose to keep the amounts to the lowest income and reduced the amount of benefits to middle-income or high-income households. In the 2016 balance sheet, as regards conciliation aid, there has been an increase in the number of cases, but there is an explanation. In fact, real demand remains low, in a context still of low birth rate and which is also aggravated by the effects of the 2012 labour reform, which has achieved an increase in part-time contracts, has achieved a reduction in hours and wages, and thus has also led to a decrease in the amounts received for aid, because aid is also calculated in proportion to those days and wages. The Administration has six months to pay the aid legally, and it is important to bear in mind that in 2016 13,000 files were paid that remained pending in 2015, so that the applications strictly made during this year remained at 18,000. There are 5,900 remaining in the last quarter, which will be paid within the 2017 Budget. We consider, as I have already said, that aid is important, yes, but we must go much further. That is why we will vote in favour of our amendment as a whole, the amendment that we signed initially by the Basque Nationalist Party with the Socialist Party. We have been trying until the last moment to sign a compromise amendment with the People's Party, and that has prevented us from approaching, perhaps, the positions held by the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin group Podemos, which were not far removed from what we had proposed. But we have a word and we committed ourselves, and in the last second the People's Party has decided not to sign. Whatever. We, of course, believe that it was important what we included in our amendment as a whole, which also did not differ greatly from what the Group of the European People's Party had proposed. We therefore do not understand why this little effort has not been made to carry out this compromise amendment, and in the end what has been achieved with this negotiation is that none of the proposals that have been brought to this House today will come out at all. I hope, we still have time, because we will continue to talk about conciliation on the sixth item on today's agenda... We still have time to come up with something that will also improve family and conciliation policies, because I believe that we all agree on that. And what I believe, Mrs Garrido, is that you have come up with an initiative to make believe that the People's Party is concerned about this aid, aid that has not been cut in the end, as you say, in terms of the aid that is collected from the budget; it has not been cut in this year's budget. But then, when it comes to negotiating, it has tangled, it has tangled, it has tangled, and the only thing it has achieved in the end is that nothing comes out of here today at all. Because it has prevented, with that approach... that in the end we could have negotiated, with more time, perhaps something that would have been signed by all the groups. And what is fair must be said, and I say it right now here. And I am sorry; I feel that in the end, after all the groups have been speaking, after we have all agreed at the bottom of our approaches on what we have talked about and contributed here right now, we have not been able to reach an agreement on something as important as policies to help Basque families. And I think that at this time of crisis, at this time and in this situation, very much influenced also by the cuts in labour reform that has achieved a reduction in wages, that has achieved reductions in working hours, that has increased temporary recruitment – and that in the end all that does is that the aid that families can ask of the Basque Government is smaller, because they are also calculated in relation to that – so that we have not been able to obtain also some compromise amendment that it can serve, that it can provide to advance... As was the compromise amendment that we were bringing, which was moving in this direction, which was bringing commitments to which I will refer – because it no longer gives me time – in the second round. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u20	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u21	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the department. The principles that tend to the use of the Jestle Party in families and childhood are the same as the Convention of the Rights of the United Nations. Our efforts do not repeat the disadvantages between generation and generation, convinced that the future investment of Europe and Eucharadia is a fundamental investment, and that the direct contribution, an intelligent, bearer, and an integral growth, will produce benefits, considering the length of time, of childhood, economy, and society. The Jeltzaan Party thinks that early interference and prevention are indispensable in the pursuit of more efficient and efficient family policy. In the first years of life we defend ourselves from correcting disadvantages, because it is important to double our efforts in the struggle against poverty and in general against social shores. We believe that the most effective prevention is acquired by integrated strategy. With assistance offered to parents, combining with children of quality, health, housing, and social services, so that they may use their whole power and have less weakness. From the starting-point we are obliged to promote a public society, so that both parents participate in productive duties and labor, and even on the model of reproduction or care, on the model of a double recipient and watcher. We have one of the most helpful policies for birth-rate politics, and one of the most effective methods against childish poetry, and that of protecting women and children in the best part of the family affairs of the community. Euscalal Autonomy in Erria, and even in the States, the rate of birth is reduced again, arriving at the levels of 2002. It is obvious that the descent of births is directly connected with the economic cycle. The principal reason of the lowevity is that the conditions on which the next two children are enabled or hindered by the birth of their children, since the question of association is, in some measure limited to one child, increased in a decided manner with two children or more children. Every one belonging to the life of persons and families, the view of their future, affects the decision of their couples, the determination of their fatherhood and motherhood, and the number of children they desire to be. Hence the political policy which originates in the protection of birth is directly connected with the most attractive of families, and the sphere of activity includes all the forms of government. Therefore, in our opinion, the discussion of the measures to aid families must be established beyond the funding of money, and, indeed, the greater part of the family's budget is directed to these subsidies, a partnership of 27 million and a half of birth, and a half and a half of a million, we must mention in the same way the programmes of parentship and compliation, which are developed by love. I'd like to give a few facts in front of a lot of things they're saying. In 2014, the birth aids were given to more than 330,000 files, and in 2015 to 32,000, and in 2016 more than 30,000. And I only wish I could remember that it was for the descent of demands for the born. At the same time, as to the friendships on the settlement, in 2015, there were more than 31 million euros in the company, nearly 25,000 files, and in 2016, 32 million and a half, nearly 30,000 file. According to what has been said, the time has come to open the phase of a wider strategy, in which the budget of a specific economic aid, given to the family according to the number of children, is to be left behind, experience shows us that a direct relationship cannot be established between the supply and increase of economic preparations given to families. And, on the other hand, what they need is the help of the social time which will render them more fruitful with their wants, most of all. That's why we feel that we need an integrated support strategy with families that can guarantee that all family structures are the same level of confession and social protection. To invest in the family, to reduce the social difference attached to the family structure, and to secure the welfare of all children, whatever kind of family they may be, the measures we plan from the Journal Party, have a multimentary character, and affect the different politicalities of public policy: the principal support of education, equality, housing, money-principles, cultures, and health policies. On account of the archification of the jurisdictions of Euscal Autonomy, there must necessarily be a strategy of the character of institutions, founded only on a global agreement between Government, Aldudi, and municipalities. Beyond the complication between the organizations and the organizations of these commitments, we consider the Euplic Party as essential to the intervention of other social agents, and, more especially, of those who have a direct participation in the intercourse of labor. The implication of union and operating companies is inevitable, and especially when a social environment is to be founded, in order to protect the more and more adapted families of their children, and to protect their structure. Economy aids are always welcome, but their influence must be considered whether it is more socially profitable to invest in all families in the same manner, or rather to invest in them with economic difficulties, whether it is not more profitable to allow assistance in association than assistance for children, and that the same degree of income does not often afford the like economic capacity to the domestic units of different composition. However, the Department of Police Society announced, and announced that on the day of the interpelration of Madame Artolalotis, which was also recorded in the Election Program, on the other hand, the increase of 50% of the family budget to be coherent, and also, as it is recorded in the government, progressively extending economic contributions for the second three years from the second year of her childhood. On the other hand, we presented three points' corrections to the side proposed by the Populous Party in this respect: In the first place, we kept the first point of the original motion of the Populacian Party, for we thought it reasonable to assist the families in two months' time, by the representation of the results of the planning of the third organization, which, in the end, we need in our hands the knowledge and examination of the circumstances and their consequences which are to be carried on with us. At the second point, we should have a second step to give, namely, a family strategy in as short a time as possible, from which we should complete the plan of the fourth organisation between 2017 and bring it to this Chamber with the exact measures to which it should be developed. And we believe that this family strategy is meant to receive the paradigm of social investment, early or early in life, the importance of the genus view and complication, the protection of the tax measures of the attorney, and of the negative tax collectors of parents. These words I have seen in the middle between the Collectors and Podemus, and the Podemos, but you will confess that the copyright is mine. And as for the time being, we put it in as short a distance as possible, not in order to prolong the ad eernum, but in order to collect the original motives later, and also in Podemos' correction required that the family strategy should be introduced before the end of this gathering, and that we should not be reasonable, considering the first points which we all agree to, if we were to present ourselves in two months' time, we should present ourselves in the second week of May, and that it would be until the end of the meeting, that is to say, until June, between half a month and a half of this strategy, that is not enough for us to arrive at a time. By no means, we think it would be most reasonable to have heard of the strategy of the year's end in this Chamber. And at the third point, as the Government Program had taken into itself, to raise 50% of families with children during the legislature, progressively extended financial contributions for the second two years of their second childhood. We understand, among other things, that this may be left behind by 7%, that these support should be further from the labors around it, and from the second child...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u22	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u23	Because that's where it's supposed to work, because that second son or daughter, and that's what guarantees the relay from generation to generation. As time has exhausted me, I also had a balance between our corrections and the corrections of the rest, but I shall try to make it a second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u24	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. At the turn of the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Well, look, Mrs Sánchez, dialogue is the truth that we could say almost till dawn. Because I also believe that in today's sitting of this plenary session of the Basque Parliament it has been agreed that a number of Members of Parliament have a number of points, and if anything has happened throughout most of yesterday it has been an exchange of calls, and we have even sat down at the table. I haven't had the opportunity to sit with you at the table, on this subject I haven't talked much with you, because the interlocutor has obviously been more of the department to which responsibility and to acquire the commitments. You have what you have in this government, what we will do to it, but it is up to the Department of Employment and Social Policy, and that is why the dialogue has been more direct with the Basque Nationalist Party in this case. And I was telling him that we've been sitting until this very morning. I therefore believe that many efforts have been made to reach agreements. Even I urge you, if you want to make a new effort, then we make a new recess. For our part, no inconvenience. Man, I'm sorry once again – which I also think is your fairly usual style – that when you come up to this rostrum you don't devote yourself to setting a position, beyond saying that what the People's Party says is not true. But it is that I have sustained my manifestations in concrete facts. And, moreover, it is that until this legislature, in which you have entered the government with the Basque Nationalist Party, we agreed on one of the things. It is that we agreed to denounce, and we denounced and reached agreements to denounce the budget cut in half in 2014, in conciliation aid! We agreed, and you denounced the last parliamentary term, both you and Mrs Sarasua, the reduction of the amount of 7% in the additional provisions! That is, you and we have agreed on many of the cuts that have been launched by the previous Executive and that have been consolidated. Man, I regret that you are now part of a government, which I think is very good for you, for what you have been able to achieve by being in the government, but I want to say that in the end what is to be seen is whether that is beneficial for Basque citizens. And in the end you have also had to swallow with those cuts that are being consolidated. Look, when you talk to me about increasing aid, then, of course I do! It is that applications can mark a specific demand, but if we increase the amount of aid of course the budget and the amounts budgeted in the budgets would not arrive. That is why this group is in favour of increasing aid, the amount of aid, the amounts you... And I have to remind you that the sixth additional provision clearly talks about reducing the amounts by 7%, and it concerns two aids: birth aid, and conciliation aid. That it is the same additional provision that came in the four previous Urkullu budgets, and that it also comes in this budget that you are co-responsible for being part of the government. But then, on the other hand, it has also caught my attention that you play both pythonise and futurables, when I think you're also going to be wrong. Because if something characterizes the Group of the European People's Party, it is a coherent group, and it is better in this case a bird in hand than a hundred flying, and the position that the People's Party is going to have on the two amendments is going to be that of abstention. In other words, it seems to us that the agreements reached are insufficient, because we would have liked to go much further in terms of family policy and the increase in amounts, but, well, something is better than nothing. And you at least put something in your amendment, the same as you put and put into the commitments of the government team. That, I must stress, is not enough for the Group of the European People's Party. But, look, as we also do not have much confidence in the fulfilment of the commitments by this government, because I think it is already raining on wet in this matter... Well, well, within the government programme we already have a commitment to the 50% increase, and it seems that with our abstention that 50% increase will also come out. Well, welcome. It is absolutely insufficient, but welcome be it. And for other reasons. Because we believe that we have claimed – not only me today in this rostrum, but also on previous occasions and in the previous legislature – the transmission of a fourth plan within that family strategy, of which, as I said earlier and told you and especially to the Basque Nationalist Party, we were told that there was a draft but we do not know it, which had to be lost in the transfer of powers. And on the other hand, we were already insistently asking for the evaluation of that III Family Plan. Therefore, I think it is better bird in hand than a hundred flying, and if anything characterizes this group is coherence and have a policy that is possible. And above all it will be there where measures are adopted that, even if not entirely the ones the People's Party wants, in some way can benefit Basque families, as it can be in this case. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u27	It seems that in the end almost everyone agrees, but, as Mrs Sánchez has said, nothing will come of it. Well, I have a solution: you can vote for the transaction we are presenting. But I'm not saying it because they're going to vote for us; I'm saying it because the things you've said here are the things that you put in that transaction. He's putting it on! And in the other two initiatives he doesn't put it. We have three initiatives here today. There have been at least four groups who have more or less explained here that they agree on a number of things, and that series of things are just one of the three initiatives being presented. Would it have been better if we all had done better and had reached a prior agreement? Well, sure, yeah, good. But today we're going to vote, we can vote. Of course our group, and I don't mean it with sorna... I encourage you to vote for it, and we would not see it as a government defeat, but as a success of concrete policies in which everyone says they agree. It's probably because we don't really agree that much. That's at least my opinion. The initiative presented by the Government and the initiative presented by the People's Party – and also someone else has said it in this rostrum too, I am not saying it alone – are in the end very similar. It's that they talk about a couple of things that we also say about evaluating the previous plan, bringing in a new plan one way or another, and then they talk about the games. And that is why we stressed a lot, or I stressed a lot in my first speech, that for us the debate cannot be only that of the amounts for these two specific types of aid, although then the interventions of both the Government and Mrs Garrido have focused a lot on that. But it is true that they have also said, indeed, that they do not conform or that they do not agree that family support policies should be reduced to aid alone. Well, that's what it says in our transaction. We think our initiative is better, because it marks a road map for the Government. The other two initiatives do not mark a road map, beyond, yes, well, bring a plan, of course, but do not mark a road map from where we want to go. And as we find that, according to what they say, they seem to want to go in the same direction in which we too are, we think this initiative is better, because it does mark that road map. The other two, that of Mrs Garrido and that of PNV and Socialist Party, do not mark a road map. They have three points, but they do not mark a road map of how we want aid policies to be. They say, "We're going to make a plan, we're going to value the previous plan, and they're going to go up in the budgets," something that, as has been said here too, came in the government agreement. In other words, the Government does not bring anything new. Of course, if you don't bring anything new, with those limbs you can hardly negotiate or ask for support. I really am very surprised by what I have heard, because I believe that the policies that I have seen develop both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and the PNV do not go in this direction of what has been said here. But, well, I certainly give a vote of confidence. If that is the direction of these comprehensive policies, which are not only about certain economic aid, but about a society that is profoundly unequal, then there is a concrete initiative that marks a road map for the Government to go in that direction. We're in time to vote for it. I encourage you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u29	Thank you. It is true; I agree with what Jon Hernández said. I think it's clear, once more, that at least the posts are quite ready in the halbations. But one of them once told me that sometimes we should stop for a few moments to build, that we should be able to find out how many times we're going to be able to do it. And there is a little thing that Mrs Sánchez has commented that the truth is that I would like to comment from this atrium, because it has been said that no woman should give up her career, and it has also been said about mothers. But I understand that it has been a small lapse, because I understand that you share with us and most of this Parliament that this is a matter of men and women, not just women. With which I think they are small things that we have to go repairing, because conciliation should not only reconcile women. Y, con respectos a los recortes, whether there have been restrictions or not, I think it's clear, from the budgets and the course of the past years, that some helps are raised, but some even a slight reduction. In the planning, or the strategy we have proposed, we also discussed that these domestic policys or tactics do not confine themselves to these helps, directly to the assistance of families, for their union, or for their children. I wanted to remind you that a lot of families live in a very difficult situation, that they can't get to the end of a month, and that they've been reduced from 2012 to 7% to guarantee their incomes, and that now, as this government has suggested, they'll have to be on account of the rise of the SS, instead of that 8-5th ascent. And that makes the restrictions, because they're reductions, or they don't give what's going on. I wanted to draw, too, because the other day I heard Mr. Erkoe talk about the AES about these emigence aids, and I thought it was with the familiars of the families he mentioned. And he said that these AES might be another element to guarantee the dignity of families. Eta behin eta berriro errepikatzen diot Artolazabal andreari, zeren asko gustatu baitzitzaidan esan zuenean "we had to talk about social policies foresight". And, of course, with social emergency aid, I do not think that the structural situations of Basque families, which are going through quite complicated situations, are being solved. And besides, these policies which were centered on economics and economic aids, it explains clearly that the intermediarys in their report, produce differences, and that is to be fully considered. A little allusion to the effort, and a long way from the gentleman's copyright. Of course, I said that we've been trying to say that you're all going to agree with the rest of us together, because this is one of those wide agreements, and, of course, these and some of them are the terms you've proposed, and some of which have been suggested by Podemos. There is no difficulty in this, because what was sought was a vast arrangement, and this is done in extensive agreements, some contribute to it, and others to the other. I have no problem accepting that. But at the same time I dare say that your proposition, in the correction you propose, is nothing new. What is done is, that some plans arise, and in some respects you plan what Mrs. Artola width has said in writing, in correction; but there is no innovation, or there is no other proposition in the wide agreement. So I think that some of us actually intended to make an arrangement here, and some of us have contributed to each other. And we've proposed ways of getting to the agreements as well. And I think at least that will be admitted to us in this discussion of today. I believe, as I said before, that we shall find ourselves on the road; At least in action, I think we're getting away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u31	Well, Mrs. Garrido, if for you to speak five times over the phone, sending yourself three e-mails, that means we haven't had any contact, well, I don't know what you mean by negotiating. He says, "No, I took him with the Nationalist Party; I took him with you..." Well, we've spoken five times over the phone! I don't know who I was supposed to talk to, who missed my call on the way. But, of course, I have made every effort, up to the last second, to try to close that compromise amendment that you, in the last second, as I said, declined to sign. We had a commitment to sign it with you, and we kept it to the end. It couldn't have been. Well, of course I'm sorry. I am glad that you have at least rectified and are going to abstain, so that today at least the amendment can come out to the full that we have signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, because that is good, and it was not very different from what you had proposed. The nuances were very small, but he has not made the effort to be able to sign that compromise amendment. And I also say to you that, of course, circumstances have obviously changed since 2014 here, I have already explained it perfectly with figures in my first speech. And Parliament's initiative was brought here at the end of 2014, and the need to increase these budget lines for conciliation aid was approved. And then that increase was collected, because we were about to budget, and already in the 2015 budgets those items were corrected and increased. With this, of course, my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, made a very important effort in 2014 and we were very committed to demanding this increase in aid. Mr Hernández, I invite you to vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of which we have signed by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, so that this amendment can come out with much more support from this House. Because in the end it collects, as I am going to explain now, important things that will serve to take a step forward in these matters, which is the important thing. Mrs Kortajarena, of course all these issues and conciliation are a matter for men and women, and also until we achieve that in its entirety this society will not advance what has to progress in co-responsibility. But I have made a reference to mothers because what is a reality is that almost 90% of the aid that women continue to ask for is done by women, because in the end it is up to them today, and reconciliation in families continues to fall today. And that's what we have to change. I absolutely agree with you on that issue, and there we will never disagree. And I will explain to you quickly, because, if not, I will run out of time, the amendment to the whole of which the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group have come to. First of all, it is important to carry out the evaluation of the III Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support over the next two months, as reflected in the initiative of the People's Party. Secondly, Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up and forward as soon as possible the strategy for families and children from which the fourth inter-institutional plan for support for families 2017-2021 derives, containing the strategic lines of action and the measures to be developed. Thirdly, Parliament urges the Basque Government to increase aid to families with children by 50% over the course of the parliamentary term, gradually extending aid from two to three years. I believe that this is an important step, and as for the Socialist Group all these issues were important, as for the Nationalist Group, in the government agreement we already took up our commitment to promote an inter-institutional strategy for demographic change and rejuvenating Basque society through policies supporting families and children. This included the need to improve systems of economic aid, tax incentives and effective measures in the field of co-responsibility and reconciliation. Also the importance of implementing effective co-responsibility policies through awareness-raising and training measures. The need also to adapt the working hours of the parents to the services of day care, of haurreskolas. Also the need to promote, in collective bargaining, measures of work and family reconciliation in companies, and the promotion of plans of flexibility of working hours, which incorporate in their organizational model, in order to get mothers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u32	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u33	... especially lower-income mothers (because they are the ones with the lowest incomes, we still have lower incomes than men), can achieve a reconciliation that the current situation does not allow them. That is why we are going to vote in favour of our amendment as a whole. And thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u34	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u35	Madam of the Parliament. I'd like to use this shift to color some of the things that have been said here, in order to color the smallest. Mrs. Garrido, a previous question. Look, for this executive, for this government, starting with the lehendakari, family policies are of very high importance, because we are playing a lot at this. Among them, the future and welfare policies. I do not like to go into this kind of "you plus" debate, but it is also worth remembering who supported, who supported the government when the 7% reduction in the sixth additional provision was approved. And look, you were talking about the lehendakari, that if I had promised I don't know what things, I don't know what frames... Look, I think by this time you should go grab a little lehendakari's tranquillity, and you should realize that he's not a man who usually promises what he can't fulfill. And by announcing things solemnly, as he announces, he does not announce anything that he does not believe or that he does not believe strictly necessary. Going to the analysis of the various amendments, well, I think that ours, with all due respect and modestly, I think it improved yours. I was literally picking up your first point; I was concrete and nuanced the second, because, among other things, you were asking for the strategy to include the fourth inter-institutional plan and what we were telling you was that, above all, the fourth inter-institutional plan had to be derived from the strategy; and I think it improved the third point, although I am aware that you did not like it very much. I do not know who, of the speakers, has said that we have said nothing different than Mrs Artolazabal. Well, I don't know what you expected! I don't know if you expected us to say anything different than Mrs. Artolazabal. And I believe that the wife of the Kothaja was attempting to make great agreements, and words and actions and so on. Yes, I thought the arrangement would be possible yesterday afternoon: your first correction seemed reasonable, and from thence and from thence and from thence to others, it seemed possible that it might be possible, but the last proposition, well, was not possible, it was not possible to sign. I am of opinion that every political moment also has its wants, and perhaps the wants of the present moment have been such, but I am confident that we are also acting in words and actions, and that, if once they are like words, actions are more easily carried out. Mr Hernández said something that has also been part of the idea that we wanted to convey, and that is that this cannot be fixed, cannot be fixed, if not with comprehensive strategies. A comprehensive strategy that we understand will have to have three main characteristics. The first will have to be sustained in time. This is not resolved in a budget year or in a legislature. Governments coming out of this House in the coming legislatures are probably going to have to keep up the effort. To be sustained over time must be economically sustainable, and that requires a great interinstitutional agreement. Interinstitutional, because when we talk about the economy in this country, we also have to talk mainly with the outside parliaments. And it must be, above all, a shared effort. Shared by all political, economic, social actors... where conciliation is a central axis and where, for example, another central axis can be day care centers and so many other types of public services that we all consider essential. Therefore, we have probably lost an opportunity today, we have lost a battle to reach a broad agreement, which is what this matter needs, to turn back to that birth rate with which we continue to play the future and the welfare state. But I trust, trust, and believe that we have also set certain precedents, that in the not too distant future it will be possible for us to agree together on these types of policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put Garrido Knörr's original text of Mrs. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u37	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the middle-term correction of Podemos and EH Collect. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u38	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 37; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u39	So it's been accepted to this middle-directional correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parliamentary Group, in regard to the production of an independent observatory of the tax-tribute. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Pindo, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u40	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. In the present day, the prosecutor's topic of deception and the production of the observatory, which we call important to work against him, is a question of discussion. The struggle against the fraud is another important section of the policy of tax policy, along with the ecidite elusion, a struggle required to close the means of tax-systems, and to enable them to develop and to ensure the proper and sufficient tax-systems which are necessary for public services. In short, apart from the state of reform on the table which we have placed in order to complete the necessary tax system of public budgets, it is essential that this section should force the struggle against fraud. The primary reason for the tax system is to collect money for public sector activity, which also redistributes the rent for the main purpose. To enable the growth of a people, and to prevent its social rupture, disparencies, unemployment, and cultivation, it is essential to have a proper public policy. But in order to strengthen all this, it is absolutely necessary that all economic activities, consumption, and investment, should be taxed and, of course, paid taxes. The tax system is the essential element on the basis of our public system, and therefore it is absolutely necessary that the public system should be confirmed by the credibility of the tax system itself. It is absolutely necessary that society should respect the system of taxes, to render the same system credible, it should be a fact that each of us pays tribute. Society ought to know that its levying of taxes is important to the support of public services, and that the artifices which some pay not taxes will not remain in it, and that it will be a firm opposition to them, especially from public administration. And still more, the use of these means of becoming more and more difficult is the establishment of all these administrations. We are aware of the work being done by the outlaws in the fight against tax fraud, and of the importance that has been, for example, reinforced in the exchange of data between estates, which has so long been claimed not only by different political forces – including Euskal Herria Bildu, of course – but by the tax inspectors themselves, who are ultimately the ones on the day-to-day side of this fight against fraud. But that is not an obstacle for us to believe that for the fight against fraud we must equip ourselves with more tools. Because with the exchange of data, with the management work, even getting results, they are always about people who are already controlled, and unfortunately, what is achieved with the investigation, with the actual inspection work, is not so crowded. And it's through this, the inspection, where you get to those who aren't already controlled by the estates. We must equip ourselves with all those tools that not only allow us to detect the fraud already perpetrated, but allow us to prevent it, even prevent it. It is about knowing as much as possible about fraud, because that is the only way we can deal with it. It is necessary to be able to make a continuous study of the evolution of fraud in order to identify its causes and the best way to combat it. As important as identifying fraud and acting against it is knowing the environments or activities most likely to do so, the ways and methods most used, and, ultimately, it is about knowing the route of fraud and how to prevent it. Because the reality is, there's a long way to go. Last year we learned about the study on submerged economy and fraud carried out by the professors of the UPV Gallastegui, Zubiri and Fernández-Macho, and the conclusions of this study are enlightening: more than 11 billion euros move in the submerged economy; that is, more than 17% of the gross domestic product moves annually in this country in the submerged economy, and this generates a fiscal hole of more than 3.7 billion euros per year, of which more than 2,000 are those who stop collecting Basque wealth. And the thing isn't there. The thing is not there, because the teachers themselves recognized the limitations of their study, since the tools used were less powerful than they would have wanted, and the data they had were not sufficient. In addition, they stressed the impossibility of knowing and measuring fraud caused by fiscal engineering or the concealment of property in such famous tax havens. It would be well to strengthen the light, which belongs to the data of the fraud. The professors of U.V. left on the table so much more data that it would make it easier to have a more accurate effect. Every disturbance has its own tools to measure the fraud, and it has several times been put upon the table to unite them, to make the results comparative, and to know what and how we are measuring. There is also something to be done on the way to transparency. We know that many facts are handled in this subject, and most of them are very sensitive, but it does not at all alter the necessity of securing clarity and transparency, on the one hand, of making the same system more efficient, and of strengthening even the credit of the system. But the question is not only how deception is measured, but we must also know the effectiveness of the struggle against fraud. It is essential that the effectiveness of the measures which are applied to knowledge and knowledge is the effectiveness of the means which it is applied to, whether what it is doing is appropriate or not, whether there is a chance to do more. When this is the context, it is our intention to form an observatory against fraud, because it is a tool for making a quantum leap against fraud, because the construction of an independent observatory will serve to strengthen the credit of public administration and of the system itself. In several other countries there is already such an activity in Australia, as in England or Germany, that they are giving good results. These people are advanced societies, and it has been clear that the struggle against fraud is essential to promote efficiency, to guarantee transparency, and to continue the constant continuity of deception in an independent manner. If the prosecutor is really a serious business of society for all of us, why don't we set up a tool for acting efficiently against him? Why so much fear and nervousness to force an instrument? Why is it said as an argument that there is a committee against fraud, which is composed of the workmen of the bakers, and which has other duties? In the words of experts, if the observatory is turned on with enough ion and obvious targets, it is possible to reduce the rate of deception around 10%, around the rate of many other advanced nations. Why don't you give up more $1,000 each year? Why don't we take this opportunity? Why don't we go to work? Indeed, if we want to fight tax fraud, if we want citizens to take seriously the fight against tax fraud that the institutions are doing, setting up the independent observatory would be an important step. It'd be a giant step. Because if we want to be credible to society we need to have real data, we need to have contrasting data, we need to put preventive measures, we need to know the experiences of other countries in order to be able to implement them here. In short, society has to realize that everything is being done against fraud, something that, unfortunately, is not happening today. Because we cannot be content with having figures of fraud somewhat lower than those of the state. Because, together with a bold fiscal policy, the fight against fraud can provide us, in the medium and long term, with more resources to activate public policies for the development of society and our economy. Because, if we want to be more effective in the fight against fraud, we have to have all the tools active. And because citizenship, that citizenship that religiously pays its taxes, is sick of seeing how some people take it raw and not only don't make the contribution that they owe by way of taxes to society, but are sometimes praised, that society deserves us to do everything in our hands to end the scourge of fraud. Therefore, that is our proposal, and we believe that it is a response to what society is asking for and to the commitment we have to society, to make it clear that the fight against fraud is serious and we are going to put all the means into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. This is the turn of the teams that have advanced the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning. "How much do Basque farms collect in the fight against fraud? Impossible to know, because each counts different things. How many tax inspectors are there in Euskadi? I don't know. I believe that some of Fatima's mysteries are less guarded than information about tax fraud in Euskadi." Hitz gogorrak, ezta? Hitz horiek eraikin honetan bertan esan ziren 2016ko ekainaren 20years. Zortzi hilabete besterik ez dira passa Euskal Herriko Unibertsitateko katedraduna den Ignacio Zubirik bayeztapen hori egin zuenetik. As some of you and you will know, I am referring to the appearance in the Committee on Finance and Budgets following the report that the Basque Government sent to three professors of the UPV. A report which, moreover, had already been leaked, since the Basque Government itself imposed standard methods for its realization rather than a tax analysis. A tax analysis as far as the more advanced countries are concerned, which would certainly have been more effective. This means that the models mentioned in the Government's call, and therefore those used for this work (the monetary approach and MIMIC) cease to measure a significant part of the fraud; in particular, that which is materialized through the masking of income (including tax engineering), the relocation of income and the concealment of income abroad. Almost nothing. Even so, this report drew a desolating picture for Euskadi. Thanks to it we were able to observe how during the period from 2011 to 2014 the tax fraud of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi stood at 11 billion euros, that is to say, 17.4 % of GDP. And this result is not the result of chance: there are already several studies and estimates that suggest that tax fraud in the Basque Autonomous Community is between 17 and 18 % of GDP. Between 2011 and 2014 the loss of collection in Euskadi amounted to 3,700 million euros. Of the total EUR 3.7 billion, slightly more than EUR 2 billion (55 % of the total) corresponds to taxes managed and controlled by Basque administrations. Of course, as usual, and to breastfeed, we can look at the neighbors in the south. But this time we do not get very well standing, as the range of tax fraud in the Spanish state is only between one and two percentage points above that of Euskadi. However, if we look at countries with greater control in tackling tax fraud, such as the United Kingdom or the United States for example, we can see how we really do get stuck badly, since in these countries the submerged economy, an indicator that can be close to tax fraud, is between 7 and 10% of GDP. From Elkarrekin We can see in tax fraud one of the biggest scourges of this society, since it has very negative consequences, both for the economy and for society in general. The direct consequence of this is undoubtedly the lowest collection by the estates. In that I believe we are all in agreement, that is, in the loss of income in order to achieve a greater redistribution of wealth, which is a fundamental weapon for social justice. On the other hand, tax fraud affects the fairness and legitimacy of the public sector to demand the widespread payment of taxes to those who are paying them. A public administration that does not strive to demand that they pay those who have the most, when it is these people who also have the most means of defrauding, will hardly have any credibility to claim payment from those who do not defraud. Tax fraud has encouraged governments to increase fiscal pressure on the middle classes in order to achieve so-called fiscal stability. In other words, governments in recent years, rather than investing in the fight against tax fraud to pay those who have greater income and greater means of defrauding, have decided to pay more for the majority of citizens, simply and simply. They have decided to pay more for those people who are justly fulfilling their obligations towards all citizens. Furthermore, we must not forget that the money earmarked for the fight against fraud is easily recoverable money. Various studies already show that, for each euro invested in the fight against tax fraud, ten euros are collected for public coffers. Ten euros of people who have defrauded everyone; ten euros that can probably be used in later years so that the following budgets do not have the name "without laziness" again and again. EUR 10 per euro invested in the fight against tax fraud that can be used for social inclusion, health care, education or plans aimed at creating quality jobs. Citizenship is fed up with the trifles that people who have the most means to pay less or not to pay anything. There is a need to put an end to this widespread practice in certain areas. It is necessary to fight and put in place sufficient means to end, once and for all, tax fraud. And certainly the best way to tackle tax fraud, as a number of experts have said more than once, is through the creation of an independent tax observatory, as the Government's Anti-Fraud Commission and the three Member States have shown themselves to be on a path that will undoubtedly be much more effective with the provision of more resources. The task to be carried out by the independent tax fraud observatory is very important. To begin with, it is necessary to carry out an analysis from a tax and microeconomic perspective; an analysis that analyzes, taxed, which methods are used to defraud and who are the people who defraud, since the practice of fraud is the most important way by which large companies practice unfair and illegitimate competition against Basque companies that tax in our territory. There is an urgent need to tackle tax avoidance practices, which also involve large transnational corporations in Euskadi and account for 75% of tax fraud associated with corporate profits. But not only is it essential to set up an observatory against tax fraud, for those reasons which I have explained earlier, but it is also necessary to implement effective measures to exercise control and sanction of fraud. Measures such as those that have begun to be implemented with the Anti-Fraud Commission, but which need to be expanded and developed on the basis of specific work of the independent observatory against tax fraud. Moreover, the results of this committee can certainly be greatly improved with the participation of more social actors involved in economic activity, such as trade unions or social organisations. In short, the current system is not delivering the results it should, and we therefore believe that the creation of an observatory in Euskadi is essential. A fiscal observatory that is independent of public bodies; a fiscal observatory that is accompanied by a sufficient budget to be able to exercise with guarantees; a fiscal observatory whose work can serve for the expansion and development of control and sanction processes in the fight against tax fraud; an independent fiscal observatory that performs a justice exercise. In short, an observatory against tax fraud that forces those people who are stealing from us all over and over again to comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing in the district of teams that have no corrections, the Basque Popular Groups, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the first paragraph of Bildu's explanatory statement we are told that this arises because we have had cuts and we do not have sufficient resources to respond to existing priorities, and in this proposal we do not think about spending money. I mean, we don't have enough money for priorities, but we're thinking, "We're going to create an agency that's going to cost us money." They don't tell us how much. They don't tell us how much, but it's going to cost us money. The last parliamentary term, unanimously, I believe that of all the groups we were in this House, the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud was set up, which was supposed to be what was going to improve the fight against tax fraud. And, in fact, everyone has said, when they have appeared every year, that the results were good. This is what has been said here. It is now proposed that we create another body that costs us money, that is independent... That this will have to be explained to me by some of you, this independent (which the Basque Government believes but is independent), how some of us put it. Because I am not in the Basque Government, but surely the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party will seem very independent of what the Basque Government calls. But I would like to be told how the Basque Government creates an independent body, and who appoints them. Because what's that independent? But, apart from all that, at last, I believe that more independent than the Finance Inspectors, who are the ones who are dedicated to that (even when Bildu was ruling in the Gipuzkoa Chamber), and that all of us in this House, at least to date, have supported their work and it has seemed right to us, and we have encouraged them to continue working, because I do not understand that anyone should suggest to us that there is someone more independent than those officials, these Finance Inspectors, who are those who work in this area and are on that committee. They're independent enough for me! And that's what I might have my doubts, right? Because here, depending on the inspections each one has had, you may have your doubts as to why some are being inspected and others are not. We could have them. What do you propose to us in the transaction? To create this body, which according to Bildu is to create more tools in the fight against fraud? I don't see how our collection improves our spending money...! I can understand that you are telling us that, as the inspection services of the three parliaments are few, we need to give them more means, but we also ask these services here, when they came, if more means were needed, and they said that it was no longer a question of means, because no one has proposed that more means be needed. What are they proposing to us? That this body independent of the Basque Government "will work to expand and develop processes of control and sanction in the fight against tax fraud"! And then, of course, some of us have our faces as well as... I mean, an independent body, which has no competence, is going to work on sanctions in the fight against fraud...? I read "... will work to expand and develop control and sanction processes in the fight against tax fraud." And besides, Mr. Bollain, your last sentence in this rostrum has been that this body also serves, the observatory... that forces it to comply with the law. Hey, let's see, that I force you to comply with the law... In a democracy (separation of powers) there are judges, administrations, tax inspection... It's just, of course, this law enforcement thing... We're all bound to comply with the law! We do not need to create anything so that there is an obligation to comply with the law. Now, there are agencies specifically responsible for enforcing this law, and that is what the tax inspection is for, and that is what the judges are for if there is also a tax offence. "Quantify tax fraud." Look, I'm not going to go into this quantification thing, because I've never understood that there are people who can say that tax fraud is so much, and don't go to the Tax Inspectorate to say, "Hey, there's this tax fraud, and here." So, I'm not gonna stop at that. "Evaluate debt collection", "Evaluate the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud". Hey, let's see, we're in a democracy! We're the ones who have to do that. It is parliaments that assess whether they agree or disagree, or whether executives do more or less well, or do not do so well. And in this case the general boards of the three territories. But how here an agency does not know what, independent, will evaluate whether the policies are right or not! No, no, no! That's what we'll do! That is what we will do; this House with regard to the powers of the Basque Government, and the general boards with regard to those of the parliaments. "Propose measures to combat tax fraud". Look, I didn't hear in that study – because I was there – I didn't see any measure that was intended. I can offer you one, it's very simple: cash is forbidden, and you pay everything by card. And there's no escape. When some are told about some countries where there is little tax fraud, I know, I've been to Norway. Sure, when a cane like this costs you eight euros people go with a card, pay everything with a card. Pays everything, bars, taxis... everything is paid by card. Of course, tax fraud is little. So, listen, let someone propose... I'm not going to be, but let someone propose "Hey, cash is suppressed and everything is paid by card." For example, that is a measure. But in that study, in addition to being paraded by the General Councils of Bizkaia a month ago and already been here a year ago, no one saw the need to create this organism. And we do not raise it, among other things because the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud was newly set up. "Propose measures to combat tax fraud". But who better can propose them than the inspectors themselves who are in it, and who are the ones who have to tell us if more means are needed, we need to change this rule, which is what we have always asked of them every time they have come here! And I'm going to tell you one thing: I don't like the word observatory, because I think this about watching tax fraud... No, no, Tax fraud is being fought. But I will also tell you that there is a Tax Crime Observatory of the Tax Agency (don't go to other countries there), made up of officials from the Treasury and the State Attorney, to improve the fight against tax crimes, to ask what regulations have to be changed, to ask how best to act against tax crimes. But they're officials! They are officials of the State Attorney's Office and the State Tax Agency. "To make known initiatives and proposals from different actors". Look, any agent who wants to propose a measure to combat tax fraud can do so now. But you can do it on the boards, you can do it here, you can do it on the media... We don't need to spend money on creating an agency so people can make proposals to it! We're done. And it's no fear or nervousness. Do we need more means? Well, to the inspections. Mr. Bollain told us he didn't know how many tax inspectors there were. Hey, you guys have a group on the three general meetings. Yes, yes! You started saying you didn't know how many tax inspectors there were. They have a group on the three general meetings. In the budgets of all administrations comes the staff. In any case, I think you can ask each of the three delegations to see how many there are, as well as technicians and more people. Of course, you may ask, if you have doubts about how many there are, what you have asked us. What I am telling you is that increasing this expenditure does not contribute anything to the fight against fraud. And in that study that you defend and that you put to us the great proposal that was made was that the deputies have not been able to transmit to society that they are carrying out an effective fight against tax fraud. And it is complicated for Members to move that, when every three months in this Parliament, for example, it is being said that they do not fight, or fight little against tax fraud. Because, of course, we are going to create an agency to transmit that the parliaments are already fighting tax fraud, and in the meantime we are going to say that they are not fighting, to create the agency for the agency to say so. I have a number of qualifications to put forward this initiative and those who put it, but I think it is clear that we are not in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u45	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u46	Good morning, everyone. We are going to debate today a proposal which EH Bildu has put forward concerning the adoption of a specific measure in the fight against tax fraud, which is the creation of an observatory. To introduce the proposal, the proponents begin a reflection that we were able to discuss two plenary sessions here, on the usefulness of taxation as an instrument to build a country project that will make us progress as a society and allow us to have the public services that cover the needs of citizens. Because we agreed in that debate that taxation is one of the most important tools to achieve greater equality, solidarity and social justice; a powerful tool to build a more just society, while taxation serves to provide sufficient resources for public administrations to sustain the maintenance of services and benefits, to effectively redistribute wealth among the population and to boost growth and job creation. In that debate we agreed on that substance, but we were not able to agree on a proposal, and so we continue at this time. From this reflection the proposer goes on to the crucial importance of the fight against tax fraud, a debate in which the socialists have been from the beginning and which we will continue to be flagging. I do not think I need to remind you, because I am sure that all of you have read with great attention and detail the government agreement signed between the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party, and you will have found that the fight against tax fraud is one of the points expressly reflected in this agreement. Because, although steps have been taken in this area, and it would be good for everyone in this forum, when they intervene, to start by saying that steps are being taken to fight tax fraud – because it is up to us, too, or it is up to us to convince the citizens that the one who does not pay is being pursued – we both agree (the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party) on the need to continue to move forward with new measures so that no one escapes without paying the bill that belongs to him. Because tax fraud is a country problem – so they have said too – and not one or another government, because it affects us all. It is therefore essential that the fight against tax fraud should be based on coordinated action by all the institutions, with comprehensive plans to establish the annual quantification of collection targets by this chapter, and to establish a catalogue of measures in the field of prevention and combating fraud that will encircle those who, showing manifest insolvency, want to escape without paying their dues. As I have said to you, important steps have been taken in recent years in the fight against tax fraud. When Parliament assumed fiscal policy as its own in 2013, the basis for further deepening the fight against tax fraud was laid down, and the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud was unanimously set up by this Parliament, in which the three outlaws (the inspection services) and the Government work. Because it is only possible to give the battle to this scourge of tax fraud since close inter-institutional collaboration. This commission has been preparing since 2014 (we must remind you that the study of the university, of the professors of the university, ends in 2014, take their data until 2014), we have from the year 2014 joint annual plans to combat fraud and issue annual reports integrated with the results obtained, which are also taken as the basis for the realization of the plan for the next year. The work is being done. Can it be improved? Of course, there is always room for improvement in the fight against tax fraud, because we are still in a number of parameters that need to be corrected. Because we share that it is necessary to develop a methodology to evaluate annually the effectiveness of the actions of the joint annual plan that develop outland haciendas (because we do not forget that the plan can only develop outland haciendas). Because we share that new models of analysis can be established. We do not despise those who exist, nor did the professors, who for some here in the rostrum seems to have. They didn't. They said that the general literature at European Union level talked about these methods and that some other methods existed, and in particular that which allows each tax figure to know which elements of the tax are the ones that are being defrauded, which methods are being used, and who do so. And it might be convenient for us to move forward in that line. And also because we share that the instruments that Eustat has can be improved, which the professors also told us. But it seems that out of those five conclusions they are only interested in one: the creation of an observatory. I do not know whether it is because it was easy to draft it, because those functions that you put in the observatory are already carried out by the Anti-Fraud Commission. And, therefore, we do not believe that it is necessary, nor do we believe that it is a question of name. What needs to be done is those functions. The Committee on Combating Fraud, and I remind you, according to the mandate of this Parliament, has among its functions – and I say that you can take up the proposal you have made, because you can see it – the assessment of the results achieved with the measures developed, the assessment of their effectiveness, the implementation of proposals for improvements in the fight against fraud, the preparation of an annual report which will be reported to this Parliament and subsequently published. As you can see, the functions of both bodies, the one that already exists and the one that you propose to be created, are coincidental, so it does not seem very reasonable that we need a new body, but we believe that it can be much more efficient for this committee to develop and propose measures for the quantification of fraud, which is the section or aspect that would not exactly be included in its functions at this time. However, I would like to remind you that the report which today serves as the basis for EH Bildu's non-legislative proposal, and which is no more than an approximation to the quantification of tax fraud and the submerged economy, which is one of the purposes of this GNP, originates not in any observatory, but in an amendment to the budgets for the 2015 financial year which was presented by the Socialist Party and which was then undervalued by other groups. We do not then need to create an observatory; it was enough to negotiate an amendment in the government's budgets so that the university could be entrusted with a study on it. And today we have data and we have conclusions. For this reason, budgetary negotiation is useful: to put in place measures or actions that move in the direction that we believe is right. Some questions have been raised – taking advantage of the time I have left – in which I believe that from political groups, from politicians, and as public representatives, we should also do pedagogy when we intervene in the rostrum. Because the fight against tax fraud also belongs to us, and an important part of that fight against tax fraud is the awareness of citizens that the one who does not pay is being insolidary, and that it is putting the provision of services at risk. So, when you're only talking about one part of what the professors say and not the next, you're also doing a little bit of dirty play. Why do I say that? Because when you have manifested (the bearer of Podemos), regarding the question of whether it was the mystery of Fatima to know what the number of inspectors was, Professor Zubiri wrote it in the second round of intervention, and what came to say is that it was not information that was not published, that it was; that it was not easily accessible, and that the same thing he asked was that it was more accessible. But that, logically, I knew where I could look for that data. And that they had not had time; that there had been will, but that there had been time to finish some other conclusions that they would have liked to reach, but that they concluded that their study was good. Moreover, they also said what was one of the reasons why tax fraud in the Basque Country was 20% below what it was at state level, and why we were also on average in the European Union. And I have brought – because, as you like to do so with your hand and I like to bring – I bring you the record of Mr. Zubiri's appearance, and I will read it textually. On page 7, second paragraph, he says, among the causes for which there is less fraud in the Basque Country: "And thirdly, there is the performance of outlaws. Outlaws have probably also done a more effective task in the control of fraud. (...) There is a fraud that is 20% lower than the average in Spain, but also (...) it is still a matter of concern". Of course, because it would be reasonable to reach a zero rate of fraud, although we all know that this is very difficult. But that's why I'm telling you that part of this belongs to us. We too have to do pedagogy. We can't get out of here thinking we don't fight tax fraud. We cannot think here that no progress has been made with the interconnection of data, with the new information obligations, with the crossing through the computer systems and the computer audits carried out in the outlaws. Can you do more? Yeah. But it's doing a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, chiefs. Good noon, everyone. Bollain, you've been answered by the words you've taken from the commission of this work report... and then he told him that it was impossible to say that it was impossible to know how many inspectors or inspectors are there. As you've been told before, having questions on RPT and budget attachments and major councils, because all the precision is the right time to know. Then we shouldn't do it recklessly. Mrs. Pindo, to answer what you said... You said "que tenemos que dotarnos de remiendas para prevenir el fraud fiscal." Here I have the plan for the 2016 Anti-Pullery Committee of the CIVAL ARRA. Well, as I've been saying, we agreed to it, and it's been planned here since 2014... he works in three different parts, as you know, in order to get information, by regulating and collecting activities, and in particular he is a block of prevention; It's just that we should do what you said and that we should have another organization for that. So it's done, and it's done in this legislation that's granted in that committee. You said: "Tenemos que dotarnos de remiendas para concer cuál es la realidad para poder hacer, por ejemplo, studios." You've been told, for example, that report of the observatory's proposal has been made by the Commission of the parliamentary law, which is now applauded, and, as has been said, this correction against the Union, this correction of the budget. Edozein kasutan, horretaz apart, txostenak berak, Pinedo anderea, txostenak berak... Zuk Puntu bat hartu duzu eta zer da exacten duena? "The first work on tax fraud in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and in the historical territories comes from the old one, from 1986, on the commission of the Diputación de Bizkaia". Zer god, was he bai, txostenak? "The second job in 1991." On whose behalf? The Tax Coordination Authority of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Eta horrella, urteetan eta urteetan zehar, 30 urterantz doa. Beraz, egin da, egiten da, éta egiten jarraituko dugu eta hobetzen jarraituko dugu. You said: "Necesistamos hatitas, porque tenemos que tener experiencias de otros país para traerslas aquaí." And here, last week, March 3rd, I have an article in the press: "The measures which have been made against the Turks have been proposed by the authorities of Portugal and Austria to the eucalyptuses." What did you say? "Tenemos que tener experiencias de otros países para traerlas aquaí." Here you go. But what do you think, that those who work at Foru-ogas are not doing all they can, and that they do not propose to improve their measures? We've known recently that there are some recent changes. Other articles from the press. In the principal assemblies, in the principal assemblies of the three countries, general regulations of tribute are changed, and the Aldudias are making proposals for this purpose. Here we have it: "La Divorción de Gipuzá réná la selfma foral tributarian para ration effividad un lacha contra el fraude." And similarly in other countries. What are you talking about? That what is done must be done, but that we must produce another organization, we do not know where it is independent? Just a question: What do you understand when you ask them to be independent? I'd appreciate that on the second round. But you're asking me to ask you to tell me you don't know where it's going to be, who's going to be inside, who's going to be dependent on... And two, you plan to double, just two things which are opposed to what you often and often criticize here: First, let them do other jobs that are made up and done by the Congress, and other jobs, which are to be done by themselves and within the scope of their jurisdictions. This is understandable, Pindo, this is incomprehensible from the EH Union, and it is hard to understand that it is an sterilization of the Urdulic purity to a company, and that you, in the sphere of tax collection, in the sphere of fraud, should be evaluated in the sphere of tax-relations, and that it is necessary to consider all this, that it is necessary to plan proposals by an external institution. It doesn't make any sense. An external institution. Do you know why you plan it? Because in your proposition, you move from suspicion and confidence. And that's a prejudice to overcome. For the only ones on that committee against the tax club are technicians, tax inspectors and Eusk0 technicians, there's no politician here who would be in OCT and the technicians. But what's the matter? Don't you even trust them in their work? The question seems to be no, because what has been proposed is no longer a political matter, even when they are technicians, they are also subject to suspicion and distrust as far as you are concerned. You don't trust them in their work. It's a lot that's done, you've been told, but it's in his government program that he's got to do that. From the troubles, from the great groups and councils of historical lands, there's a tremendous co-ordination between them, with the government of Navarre, the Kega Agency and other institutions in Madrid. Recent Changes... I have told you that plans are made for the annual year; the plans against the prosecutor are introduced in the grand assemblies, they are known to all political parties, they present the results of their plans every year, the results of their work, and they are able to recognize them by means of means of means of extension. We all know the results: The fraud from 2011 to 2015 has been a 4.6478 million euros. We all know... We have also undertaken in the legislature; Here we accepted, not you, but others. The board, the prosecutor fraud committee, who accepted it? We agreed, all the organizations have a lot of initiative, a lot of initiative, a lot of initiatives, a lot of action, but you plan on something else. Out and out. I'd appreciate it when you say what you understand, and it would be necessary to explain it. It may be that between the proposed functions, some function, some reflection, if we want it to be strengthened, this committee against the fraud of the tax might do something else or not... let us talk, but why double an organization when we're in motion? We do not understand, and sincerely believe that it goes radically, radically against what EH Bildu is proposing in other areas. You are raising the question of duplicity, when there is already a body set up in the last parliamentary term in this Parliament, with a unique and exclusively technical representation of the three outlaws and the Basque Government, within the Tax Coordination Body, and you are also saying that the development of certain functions which are the responsibility of the outlaws must be removed. We do not understand that there is such a conflict because the cleaning of Urduliz is taken out to hire, and you are saying that it is outsourcing, but you have no problem with putting forward a measure with which all tax data will go out for someone to treat and draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Pinedo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u50	Yes, good morning again. The truth is, I didn't know this was going to raise so many passions on the government benches! Look, a quick search, Basque observatories: Basque Observatory of Housing, Basque Observatory of Culture, Basque Observatory of Children and Adolescents, Basque Trade Observatory, Basque Youth Observatory, Basque Observatory of Immigration, Basque Observatory of Social Economy, Basque Observatory of Social Services, etcetera, etcetera. Thirty seconds of searching in an internet search engine. But the Basque observatory on tax fraud, that's not it, ladies and gentlemen! Not that, because this is barbarity. It's basically... Moreover, Mrs Gorospe is allowed the luxury – because I am going to say so – of saying that it goes against the principles of EH Bildu. It goes against the principles of EH Bildu! Not at all, Mrs. Gorospe. Of that, nothing. We support that committee which you and Mrs Castelo have so many times praised, and I have been with them on many occasions, with the technicians, and have explained to us the limitations they have. And that committee has some specific functions, because they are Finance Inspectors, and they do the questions about what they have to do as Finance Inspector. And what we are proposing here is something much broader, much broader. We are talking about an observatory on tax fraud, an observatory on where tax fraud comes from, how tax fraud is measured, academic issues that are never going to be done by Basque finance technicians. And you come to put me on the table that was made a study in the eighty-one, in the ninety-one... Yeah, here we go! From the '80s to the '90s, from the '90s to 2012... Not at all, Mrs. Gorospe! That we are saying that we must continue to follow up on tax fraud! And it's not that I say it; it's that the academics themselves say it. It is the people who are on top of this that say it, that you need to have a continuous study on tax fraud, in order to be able to make a really strong fight against tax fraud. Because the way you can't be, it's a jump in the woods. And we're jumping into the woods. Over and over spending money, but in an organism that serves no purpose, the other one talks to me about duplicities... Well, really... And Mrs Castelo tells me that, well, that the amendments are good for that; that in budgetary negotiations, in budgetary negotiations, amendments are put in place to make progress in achieving the right measures. Look, Mrs Castelo, this amendment was... I don't exactly remember the money, because right now I don't remember, but it was a pin between roundabouts, polysports and various subsidies to groups related to the Socialist Party. Therefore, do not really give me an example of how amendments to a budget have to be made. And that this was the easiest, because, of course – and he said it in a derogatory tone – it was the easiest, to write this proposal, and not to write the rest. That's not what I'm talking about! We know what the rest of the proposals are, above all; and we have read them, of course, but we thought that this one had a fit in this institution, Mrs Castelo. Don't make me like this, because you do, because you do. Because he does. Because you guys say, "No, no, we've got it." But, if we already have, what is the problem of trying to do something that gives us more information against tax fraud? Because, of course, it's much better to be in what we are. And again the technical with the political. You remind me of the Member of the Gipuzkoa Treasury, who says that all fiscal policy is a technical issue. I wonder what a deputy general of a political party looks like then, carrying the finance portfolio! Let them put an official, and we end up getting a lot easier. And all this in the end is because you don't want to be clear, and you don't want citizens to know what is done, how it is done, and how it is evaluated. Well, already that evaluation has to be in the hands of parliaments only, and that for what we want an independent body... So, I wonder, what do we want the Ararteko, or the Ombudsman for? Because, totally, why do we want independent bodies! Well, nothing, let's keep doing what we want to do. I am not surprised that the People's Party tells me these things, because it has already said that it does not want these budgets to go to the far left, which we seem to represent here EH Bildu and Podemos. Of course, it's much better to lower taxes, keep it warm with the usual ones, and pay the usual ones, Mr. Damborenea. Because that's what we're all about, and today we're all the same again. Here it seems that there is a decantation of a triumvirate... Well, it'll be a triumvirate, but that's what you're putting us on the table. We have made different proposals regarding securing a decent income for the public arks of this country, and you over and over say no, and over and over and over look elsewhere. That's right, when you have to bring the accounts, with crying and saying that there's not what there is, there, with that enough. For you to follow in this way, because we will continue in our work; in our work to bring in measures to combat tax fraud, measures in favour of a fair fiscal policy, and not as you seem to want to do, stay as you are and wait for God to provide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u52	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Legebiltzarkideok. Well, no loose ends today, too. Mr. Damborenea, you were telling us that this is going to cost us money. Well, I've also commented to you before how various studies say that a euro invested in the fight against tax fraud turns ten euros into public coffers. He was talking about the results of the commission, that we're all bound to comply with the law... What happens is that not all people comply with the law. Not all people comply with the law, and that is clearly seen in the committee's data, which are not enough and we need to work more intensively on it. We can see in the commission's available reports that in 2014 770 million euros were recovered; in 2015, 750. Quantities that go down in addition to one year to another, and still very, very far from achieving the eradication of more than EUR 2 billion per year of fraud. This is already a cross-cutting issue. All of you commented that what was independent. Of course, they said that we had to fight in Parliament: from a pen we erase civil society, trade union organisations, social organisations, professional and research people in this area. That's independent! An observatory that takes into account the views of civil society, which takes into account the views of trade unions, social organizations, professional persons and researchers in this field. I too, like Mrs Pinedo, could continue to read observatories (such as the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy or the Observatory of Local Law), but, well, I think it does not come to the subject right now. Mrs. Castelo said it was easy to write. Maybe I don't know. What I do know is that it has been easy to reach an agreement between Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu to fight fiscal fraud more intensively. It turns out that other parties don't seem to care that much. Because you said that citizens must be made to believe that they are fighting against it. What's going on? That we are doing something wrong, because in May 2016, of the priority concerns of citizens the first was the economy and employment, logically, with a 9.01 out of 10, and the second was tax fraud, with a 8.69 out of 10. Something we're doing wrong if the citizenry has that perception of us. First, a little point to Mr. Damborenea. I didn't say we don't know the number of tax inspectors. Ignacio Zubiri said it in the committee. Anyway, listening to what you have said and what Mrs Gorospe has said, if the information is not accessible to a professor who has been commissioned to study, or if it is hardly accessible, imagine for the citizenry! Imagine for the citizenry! Because transparency, if it is not easily accessible, is not transparency. And finally I would like to say that to see if we fight a little bit more; if we put the real, independent bases, to fight tax fraud, and that we finish listening to the phrase "To get rich cost me what you". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u54	Mr Bollain, not all people comply with the law, you have told us. If I believed that creating this observatory was going to happen that all people were going to comply with the law, I assure you it would change the vote right now. But do you know what's going on? That I don't believe it. That those who fail will continue to disappoint with this observatory... Well, if anyone gives up he'll know; I there... [[Barres]] Of course, it's that those who defraud and violate the law will always fail, we create an observatory or we create the little chiringuito that you want to create. Mrs Pinedo, there are many observatories. Look, maybe something good comes out of here! Why do we not make a study in this Parliament to see how many are left because they do not bring us anything and cost us money? Because you'll see that we're consistent in this too. Why don't we do that? We are going to pose that, to see how many observatories and bodies we have out there, how much they cost us, and what their real value has been for the citizens. It wouldn't be bad. He quotes me the Ararteko. Look, the Ararteko is clearly independent, but the Ararteko is created to defend the citizen against the Administration, against the Government. In front of the Government, to avoid the excesses of the Government. And you tell me that the observatory you are proposing is broader than the tax inspection. As far as I have read, the title and functions are the same as the Commission against Fiscal Fraud. The same. Does it create duplicity? Of course it creates duplicity, but it is that the commission does not cost us money, because they are all officials, and you propose us... That, by the way, you have not answered me, when you talk about providing it economically, how much it is, and when I asked you about independence this, who you are and how you are asked, you have not answered these two questions. And I think we need to put a little order and organization in this Parliament. Because the extreme left might have been yesterday, but I have to remember here that the liberal is me. The liberal is me! [[Barres]] So, I'm not the one who's proposing privatizing the fight against tax fraud. I'm not! So, a bit of order and organization, because maybe yesterday we were on the extreme left and today I don't know where some are, but of course the liberals have never proposed that public services that have to be public, and by officials, pose them... I have never met anyone who has suggested that the fight against tax fraud should be privatized, nor that any independent body outside the administration should be needed to do anything like that. And, therefore, I ask for a little respect from the liberals. (Barreak) We don't raise these things. And, hey, you guys go back to yours: get more tax inspectors! I'll support them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u55	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u56	I don't know if it's about the name or the functions. I do not know whether we are staying in what is to be called, or whether we have an agency that performs the functions you say it has to perform, according to the proposal. Quantify tax fraud. That is not now on the Anti-Fraud Commission. Let's expand it! Evaluate the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud. That one is. All you have to do is take the bulletin, when the Anti-Tax Fraud Commission was set up, and there you go relating... (the phosphorite I've been stressing, okay?)). Evaluate debt collection. Also. Analyze experiences. They do. Propose measures aimed at fighting. Also. To publicize initiatives. Look, not that one. But when you tell me that in the fight against tax fraud it is also important to take into account the contribution of associations, trade unions, etc., there are times when collectives are important, but the most important, the most, even if you do not like, in the fight against tax fraud, are usually those experienced officials who have been working and seeing how they try to go without paying the bill. I think we're still cheating about the denomination, right? Because what the three professors do in their proposal I don't know if it goes with what you are proposing. Because Mrs Gallastegui at a time of that commission tells us: "This could be done in this country. College's for these things. That is, the only thing we ask for is a trust in the people of the university so that in addition to models we can continue to investigate, and very, very often, how fraud is evolving." What they were asking for is an observatory that can continue to study how fraud evolves. They don't ask for anything else. What's more, he's talking about a university observatory. Pages 41 and 42, for anyone who wants to check it out. So, I really believe that the observatory that you are asking for is the Anti-Fraud Commission that we have already set up. If we have to complement it with some function, let's get to it, and it's not going to happen to us as with the tax reform, that we all hear the music, but we're not able to write it, are we? And when someone tells me that this amendment tabled by the Socialist Party was a pin, it is a pin that you now cling to with some fruition so that you can make a non-law proposal that seems to have not otherwise occurred to you. Because the only proposal – by the way, also by the Socialist Party – that EH Bildu makes in 2013 regarding fraud is the interconnection of databases, which, by the way, we have also made progress in that. We don't mind having them as fellow travellers. On the issue of the fight against fraud and on the issue of the sufficiency of the revenue of public administrations, we can be on the sidelines. They just have to want to be accompanied, and sometimes they're very upset with the company. Make him look at it. Anyway, when I wanted to say that it was easy to draft the amendment, and I had not referred to that of Podemos... Podemos's, I just didn't get it. I mean, I haven't been able to express it here in the gallery because I haven't come to understand what you meant when you proposed to us, before you and your brother in Parliament, this kind of twinness that you have here and that you are showing us agreement after agreement, and with them you get to deal and with others not, you will also know why... Because they haven't even addressed me on this subject. So it's hard for me to agree with you, if you don't even call me to know my opinion. Because, of course, when you say that we have to put in place "effective measures" (man, I imagine that measures that are not effective you will not want), "that you have a sufficient budget allocation" (of course, normal, if we put in a measure and such...), and that it can also be carried out by the Basque Government "a process of control and sanction aimed at combating tax fraud"... I said to myself, "Well, the inspections are in the outlaws"; it must be that equally you have not been clarified with the institutional architecture and you are confusing the competences, which has already happened to you on other issues. But, you see, here are the bases in the fight against tax fraud we should put them all. And I say to you: the first (the first, and because of the issue of concern that you say citizens have about this issue) is that politicians when we intervene say that in the fight against tax fraud not a step backwards. Everybody move forward. Is there a way to go? Yeah, I recognize him. Are we going through it? Yeah. And I'm not gonna get heavy, but I'm gonna tell him. There are annual reports on general meetings (let them go, and there you will be able to know what has been done). We have the Anti-Fraud Commission (let's change its name, if you are more comfortable with it being an observatory). We have the interconnection of data, the exchange between administrations, joint and integrated plans, homogenization of data and processes that began in 2014 and that we continue, new models and reporting obligations, and new restrictions to be able to control those who do not want to pay the corresponding invoice. We are therefore not going to support the proposal they are making.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u58	Bollain, I usually take the papers, but this time it wasn't possible, because you said: "If a woman in college can't find a list of jobs, that's not clear. That's not clear." Well, as long as you've been saying that, my teammates have been watching and finding him in the computer in five minutes, and we've found him right away on the phone. A list of jobs for updated on October 19, 2016. And there, in the sixth department, you look at the Ogance Department and the Finance Department. And all the departments. And this, which can be done here in five minutes, if it has will here, is to be honest, and then to advance, to offer proposals for improvement, but we must proceed from honesty, Bollain. Honesty! And the one that's handy, tell me. This is in Aldendian of Gipuzian, Aldunian Biscaia, Aldendian of Abak, Euskon and all. The will needs the information we have to find, all the information we have within the scope of transparency! And don't tell me it's not the time! Nik chicken bakar bat egin said, Pinedo andrea. Galdera bakar bat eta eskatu said, coedez, bigarren txandan azaltzeko: Zer ulertzen dozu organ independent bat eskatzen duzunean? What do you mean independent, Mrs Pinedo? What do you mean, "independent"? I've asked you very clearly. In addition, I said: "Point and aside, ask: what do you understand as independent?". And he hasn't answered me, because they don't know what they're asking for. No, they don't. And you laugh, but so you don't laugh I'm going to do one thing, so you don't know what you're asking for. Because you're saying you want something independent, away from politics. On February 8, 2017, a month ago, at the General Boards of Gipuzkoa, the deputy of Finance appeared, in relation to this issue, in relation to the proposal of the observatory that you are proposing here today, and I will read to you what the representative of EH Bildu said there when he was referring to independent, and he said: "The fact that he is independent, man, gives him added value. There is no doubt about what this Commission may be doing against fraud" (which we suggest should work and work, and could do other questions), "as the honourable Member has said. We are talking about high-ranking technicians, obviously experts in the field. But there, whether we like it or not, there are no inputs. In the fight against fraud, I believe that the opinion of the technicians and the techniques is very valuable, but whether we want it or not, it is lame. This is because the political sphere has a lot to say on this issue, because in the end decisions are taken in the political sphere. And, on the other hand, social actors, which may also be the academic sphere, can contribute." I will read again: "It takes place because the political sphere has a lot to say on this issue, because in the end decisions are taken in the political sphere". And that's what you're asking for for the independent body? Is that what you're asking? Well, say it. We'd need to know! Lighten up and don't double, that's what we're asking for. And when you clear up what you ask, we have a chance to speak and agree that if it is really a proposition of improvement. But when you're not sure what you're asking for, and you've been asked the exact questions, without answering them, that's not serious. And our vote is against the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u60	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, to use social services in order to initiate a campaign of information on subjective right. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team together, has the word to suggest and take off. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u61	Kaixo. Get out of the way. Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea, legebiltzarkideok. Oh, my God, what a strain to get up to talk right now! "Hoy, tramos aquis a propuesta para poner en marcha una capañativativea sobre el derecho de acceso los servicios sociles, y la traemos basándonos en dos premisses." The first is still a great deal to do with the subjective right which belongs to social services. Secondly, It is fundamental that the Government should assume the preponderance of the law. And it is necessary to do so, in our opinion at least, by informing citizens, because the framework of social services is a complex framework, and it is desirable to walk towards a horizon in which all people living in Euskadi know what their reference social service is and what to do if they want to exercise their right. Although we know that the law contemplates this campaign that we are proposing, and that the strategic plan also does, we understand that there are plenty of reasons to move this initiative forward today. And we understand it for the following reasons: Because the information is power, and I'm sure we all agree on that. If citizens do not know what rights they have, we will hardly get them to exercise them, or we will equate the right of access to social services with those of health or education. Because also the right of access to social services is such since December 26, 2016, but still today we have not been able to tell people how this network works. And that is something that needs to be resolved, in our opinion, immediately. It is also important because the Social Services Act recognizes in its article 9, on the rights of the holder population, the fact that it can have sufficient, truthful and easily understandable information about interventions and proposals, about the social services available and the requirements for access to them, as well as access to their files and other things covered by the Act. Because the framework for the functioning of social services is complex, I repeat, but if there is no bet determined to explain it in a simple and direct way, social services will remain the ugly pact of the rights recognized by this Government, but, above all, it will remain a difficult right for individuals to exercise. Because, if there are many professionals here who work in the field of social services and are confused about the becoming that they are taking all this, how is not the citizenry going to be confused? Because we also do not believe that the social stigma that people who access social services have traditionally suffered can be left out. If we do not make an effort to change this and make that right as legitimate as access to health or education, we will not get the social services system to be so. Appointing access to the right of citizenship is a step, but, as Machado said, it is on its way. And it is our responsibility to urge this Government to take steps in that direction, so that not a single person is left out of something that belongs to him, especially in times like those that run. Because the law also establishes mechanisms that should already be working and that should already be known but not known. Because this is a sign that the right to social services is not reaching all people, and it is up to us to review the fact and take a look at it to improve it. It also plays, in our opinion, to fine tune and give content to the campaign. Because we already know that the law recognizes, and that having a logo is important, but not the only, nor the preferred. We know that the strategic plan for social services establishes the need to give visibility to the Basque system of social services as an autonomous system, which has so far been little recognised in the plan itself. The strategic plan also recognizes the lack of awareness of the population, which neither perceives it as a single system nor is it aware of basic social services as a gateway to the system, nor of access requirements, nor of their rights or obligations. If that is the case, and apart from things to improve in the development of the system, we believe that we must take care of them in a preferential way. Because the strategic plan itself, a fundamental tool of work, attaches great importance to the need to carry out this information campaign, but if we do not put time limits on things, they can end up being done in a hasty, unconsensuous, or unimportant way. We understand that six months is more than enough time to develop this information campaign. Let us remember that the law was passed in 2008, this is scheduled for 2017, but the law has been in place since December. Anyway. Above all – and this is what I am left with, in addition to the moment of tension that we have had in the previous initiative – I believe that the consensus in adopting this initiative is a sign of taking a step beyond what the regulations themselves recognize, or of taking forward what the regulations themselves recognize, but above all, of putting in the first place an issue that is not contemplated in the strategic plan nor is contemplated in the law, and it is the accessibility of that information to which we intend to approach citizenship, accessibility as a central element. We aim to implement easy-to-read measures; we aim to make information a good that all people can share and manage. We believe that this is a key element in making this campaign a successful campaign. I think that with all this we fully explain the need to launch this initiative, and to do so speedily and with good intentions, so I will only devote one more minute to thanking the signatory groups, and those who are going to support with their vote, the generosity of having arrived at a unanimous pact, demonstrating that we put people's interests ahead of us on such a priority issue, I understand that for all of us. From Elkarrekin We can, as we have said on other occasions, lend a hand to build and improve. In this regard, I would also like to express in this rostrum the interest that the content of the campaign can also be shared before it is launched. I think we all have to contribute, and I think it is important that we do the work together. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Kotja's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u63	Thank you, ma'am. After all that tension, I think it's euscal oasis, that's so glorious. Well, the new discussion of the system of social services to-day, and you know that we are delighted with the discussions which are made about this system, especially if they help us on our way to build it. And it is time for us to act on a subject of small but vital importance, at least, I think, because we are speaking of one of those small elements which may be clabe in the development of the system of social services and of the need of setting up a press of communications about the subjective right to receive them. I've heard it for years, and today I've heard it from Tinixa because of the power of information, poes voy a romper la "gmelidad," and I must say I don't agree with it. And recently I read to Claudia Gilhardini that's not true. That information is not only power, but information in it is only a set of data, and that it is an empty input, unless it be given in certain ends and contexts. That each of us makes information powerful, where information, how, when we know what to use it for, and when we know what to use it for, the information becomes gold. And this point of getting information or getting information is a right. And this member has also received, and we ought not to think of other arguments in those ways in which this right is exercised. This right of information's importance... The importance of information, I think, is that weight of information which makes it possible for the exercise of other rights. In order to participate, in order to obtain subsidies, to make our way to a problem, it is necessary that we have information. The public who is responsible and engaged needs information. The people who are competent need information, the people who are critical need information. And he employs all the tools and resources which are available to him to get the information that this powerful society contributes to his struggles. Therefore, to give proper information of public affairs in his affairs, when they are not well satisfied, is not only to break this right of information, but to advance in their struggles, and to execute other rights. And that's why the discussion today is very important to us. Not because it's useful to get information in it, but because this transparency worship here, I think, gives us that opportunity to arrange other halg rights. This right of entering into information allows all of us to know and use our rights, but especially those who live on the border limit and the high degree of variability. The new capacity enables us to reach it, and consequently our chance of improving the quality of life is excellent. And in the same way, as a powerful citizen, it also allows the Administration to demand accounts. And all this has to do with what we're talking about, with the subjective right to our social service and social service. We have often alluded to this subject, that the want of knowledge which is observable in the crowd around the subjective right of social services is striking. Nay, I should say that the most conspicuous is that of conscience about that right. We have a lot of rights deeply involved in the conquest of social rights, but that's not the case. We have no consciousness of those secondary rights which we receive from the service of society when we receive these services. As we always mention, the 12/2008 law is very advanced, and, as the Arlias said yesterday, it is a very ambitious law. We all share this feeling of advanced developments around this subject. and the quality of those rights, and of those rights, being so, are very peculiar, and very advanced. But I'd say our culture around the protection elements is after the law. In our collective imaginations there are still some other elements which are still very much rooted about protection and demand: we refer them to the thought that it is for the poor to ask for help, for kindness, for the poor. And often it's natural to go to the doctor's, but it's not normal to go to the social assistant yet. That's a little embarrassing. Emotional nakedness still gives us more shame than physically undressing. In this sense the cause and effect are created a chain. I don't know, I don't ask, I'm ashamed to ask, I don't want to share my miseries, I don't ask, there's no demand, there's no need to start the services and preparations. And in contrast to the complexity of the development of the social service, sometimes I will say so. On the development of the system of social service, and in general on the strength of the euscal protective system, we have a great challenge in this sense, in my opinion, to change these collective imaginations. The possibility of access to information on this subject, as has been said before, is essential to make use of that right which the citizens are allowed by law. It is essential to know how this right should be carried out. In this case, they must also know that many of these rights are not free, and they must understand the conditions which are established. But, in the same way, our party thinks we ought to go further, and, following the recommendations of the intermediary in his report, there must be a way to encourage the intervention of the organizations which represent the persons and persons, in order to construct this system for social services, in order that we may be able to discuss them all together. We want powerful and compromised citizens, at least so wills our team. In this respect it is essential that the citizens should have the same struggle with the construction of the system of social protection. This is why the agreement which we have made today seems very pleasing to us, for it has obtained a great deal of assent. There's no doubt about that... And it seems to us that when we move a communication campaign about social services, we have tried something of great importance, because in this medium we do not represent the citizens as passive subjects, we allow them to be active subjects, and that the administration must establish a quality of communication with them when it speaks of the lips of communication. On the way to the power of Pertson, on the way to build the system together, it seems to me to be a very important step, because only the holes are built from top to bottom. In this way, it will also be indispensable, and a work which can be done to prepare the protective system. The daily protection system is severely attacked, and it is the responsibility of all of us to face them. Besides, I dare say that those who have the tie of government, and the selected members of this legislature, have a particular care of protection and readiness in this work. I'd like to have firm position on this subject as well. Mrs. Castel had already mentioned making pedagogia, and I think it's essential to this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u65	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a proposal on the information campaign on the subjective right of access to social services at this fifth point, and of course we have reached a compromise amendment by all the groups, we have achieved at least today a consensus by all the groups, and I believe that in addition we all agree, all the political groups in the House, on the need to carry out that information campaign. The right to social services is regulated by Law 12/2008 of 5 December, in addition to regulating and ordering the Basque system of universal social services under public responsibility. And within it already establishes the subjective right of access to social services to all persons who are entitled to the right of access. As you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Services Portfolio Decree, which also refers, as it could not be less, to this subjective right of citizens to access the benefits and services of the Basque social services system, came into force on 26 December. And this means, on the one hand, that the citizen has the right to access and demand such services, if he meets the requirements set out in that decree of the portfolio of services and services of the Basque system of social services, and provided that the provision of this service is considered appropriate to meet the needs of the person. And, on the other hand, the competent institutions have to ensure these services in the terms in which they have been provided. This is a right acquired very recently by the citizenry, to access these social services on a subjective basis, so there may be a misinformation of the citizenry due to the short time since the acquisition of this right. That is why my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, believe that in order for citizens to exercise their rights they must have information about the scope of their rights, in a clear and manageable way for all. That is why we consider it important to launch this information campaign shortly, because, as Mrs Guanche has rightly said, if you do not know your rights it is difficult for you to exercise them. That is why we have signed the compromise proposal with all the parliamentary groups in the House, which points out at the first point that, given the recent condition of the right acquired by Basque citizens to access social services and the disinformation existing between Basque citizens, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to develop a communication campaign within six months, which seeks to make known this right of access to the Basque system of social services, as well as the services and services contained, the ways of exercising the right, etc., with the aim of prestige and enhancing access to subjective law. And secondly, that the communication campaign uses elements that ensure accessibility to information, and in particular, that easy reading is used as a working tool to ensure proper transmission of content. At the plenary session on 15 February, we had a debate on the need for easy-to-read tools, and we pointed out in it that 30% of the population have reading difficulties, including people with intellectual disabilities, young people, older people with learning disabilities, or newly arrived people. And access to reading is a social necessity and a right recognized in various national and international legal texts. That is why we believed that this initiative was appropriate and good too, and it was very positive, to make that reference also not only to the need to have that information, but also to make that information taking into account easy reading, in order to reach the entire citizenry. Another issue to be taken into account is the report by Ararteko on the situation of municipal social services in the Basque Autonomous Community, drawn up in 2016, which was presented to the Commission on Human Rights, Equality and Citizen Participation on 8 March. He pointed out in his conclusions that there is a lack of sufficient information available, as there is a two-year gap in the information received. These information problems may arise from the lack of homogeneous records or indicators relating to the activity of basic social services. The information system of the social services system needs to be improved, and although we are talking about other information, I think it would also be useful to work on its homogenisation to facilitate access to it for citizens. According to the report, it is important to develop the information system of the Basque system of social services. I would like to thank, to conclude, the various groups for the effort that we have of course made to draw out a clear initiative, a clear need for information. The more citizens are aware of this subjective right to which they have recently had access, the more facilities they will have to be able to exercise all their rights, and to exercise that newly known subjective right. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u66	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Congressmaster, and good-morning chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good noon, everyone. I shall briefly attempt to explain the attitude of the Eunciers of the Euncipators in the neighbourhood of the Bar of Information on the subjective right of using social services.... and I shall certainly be brief. We have come to a middle-way to propose together all the groups which have been introduced by Podemos and corrections, and I must confess that it has been easy for me to reach the harmony. The popular party, although it does not show any correction, I believe it will vote for the initiative in affirmative, so I hope it will be unanimously accepted, and that is why we rejoice. We find it very important, as we have often said, to obtain extensive agreements around the subject of society. The law of 2008, in the words of the Architecle, was also mentioned by the lady of the extremamante ambiciosa, and by the Cortha, was accepted with great agreement, and her development is important for our party. We call on the Government to launch a communicative campaign on the subjective right of access to social services, and to do so through easy and understandable language so that it reaches as many people as possible. Following the entry into force of the universalization of the guarantee of access to services and services, included in the catalogue of the Law on Social Services on 25 December last year, the subjective right of access to social services is fully consolidated, and we therefore believe it is important for citizens to be aware of their rights and obligations. "El Plan Stratégico de Servicios Sociles de la CAPV recoge también la necesd de poner en marchaa una campa de comunicación en estdo, en concreto la inlicativa 1.1. Espesuki says: "To start a comcommunication campaign to make the Basque Systems of Social Services know: that the aim of the system is to cover certain wants/concerns of all the citizens, what services and economic preparations it provides, access, compatibility, means and means, user rights and duties and so on." Y el Gobierno Vasco tiene claro este compromis. It's time for you to go through words, and in this area, the government has been working to develop the strategic plan in the budget project that has been represented as a whole, this communication campaign that will be included, the game of 325 thousand euros is planned, which shows the commitment to the fun. We therefore welcome the agreement reached, and stress the importance of publicizing the rights and obligations of the subjective right of access to social services. We are convinced and convinced that the Basque Government, together with the other institutions in Euskadi, will be able to agree in the inter-institutional body of social services on the advertising campaign necessary to publicize the subjective right of access to social services. Let us also hope that the campaign will bear fruit, and that those who meet the access requirements for obtaining such social services will have a broad and clear knowledge of their rights and obligations, so that those who are entitled to such aid will not be left without them for lack of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I will be brief, because I believe that many references have also been made to this issue, and in particular to what is provided for in the Social Services Act and the Social Services Strategic Plan itself on this issue. And, Mrs. Guanche, tension... Well, the usual one in the plenary. It'll be a matter of getting used to, but it's the usual. And on top of that, I think we cannot complain about this, because it is going to come out unanimously. We don't think it's convenient for him to make a communication campaign, we agreed with the purpose of the proposal, and we believe that, as has been said here, he appears at the University of Social Service, and then, taking advantage of it, the intermediary introduced a special report about social services, and the absence of information about social services. As I said, the forecast of developing a communication campaign in relation to social services and access to social services is in the Strategic Social Services Plan itself, and the Ararteko report itself also mentions significant gaps in information and availability on municipal social services. I do want to make reference... Obviously, the subject of social services today subscribes to this communication campaign, but also the Ararteko report has left us many shortcomings in the Basque system of social services, which have to do with the absence of a common organizational framework, which have to do with the failure to meet expectations, which have to do with the interterritorial differences in access to different services, unequal access... All that has to do with the Administration and, above all, the social services provided by the municipalities, which are the nearest administration, but often do not have sufficient resources to meet all the needs. In short, in line with the initiative put forward, and we will therefore vote in favour. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eunciators, the middle-line correction that the Sears have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u71	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Phum up the other suggestion of the parliamentary team, about the departure of the steps for the births, adoptions, and reception permissions of children. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Houseland, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u72	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. As soon as we began the beginning of the birth, the adoption, and the reception permissions of the children, we registered another proposal as we started the new legislation, and we begin to discuss it today. In fact, a year ago, members of the Basque Country Country People meeting with the Social Party, that was the middle-class party that we had agreed on and which we are going to discuss today. Even today, because March 8 is 8 today, tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, we have to continue working on our partnership, and we will continue to work on other proposals to continue to penetrate into the feminist politics. And today, we're going to watch, the theme we've done for the last few times. The model of license we've got today is quite patent, because the guard's burden still keeps falling on women. We have proposed this proposition, because we are willing to encourage the rights of men, but also the rights to receive their duties, the rights which may be shared, the payable and 100 percent paid. But with the system we now have, and with the measures of treatment above mentioned, we still urge the women to come home. It is evident that this proposition ought to be urged with some other measures, or that we must endeavour to encourage it, that it cannot be understood in an isolated manner, by the development of public services, by a mental consideration of the conditions of industry and of labour, and consequently by changing the direction of public policy. We must also speak of the right of guarding, of the right of being observed by quality, but at the same time of confessing the right of preserving or not preserving. In this respect public institutions ought to be introduced, in the security of the right, because the care of the watch is not only of the family, but of the women. We must collect and socialize, increase the participation of men and institutions. There are alternatives, and we can get to know the initiatives that show us how to do it here and there. Iceland is a pattern for us; in this case, we have mentioned it in its time, and we believe that it is necessary to bring it here today, where two children's parents are entitled to a month's vow, and to distribute it as they please for another two months. In order to have a six-month permit for each parent on that path, the steps are being passed. And that was done at the time of the crisis. The enquiries made in countries where such permissions have been applied have shown that these policies have three remarkable influences. The first is, that men, fathers, are more implied in the custody of children, and are thus founded by a greater degree of confidence and emotion with their children. Secondly, that women cease to be punished in the field of labour, that is to say, they cease to be troubled at the time of contracting, and exceed the regenerations of their return to employment. And thirdly, they have seen that violence is an important instrument against the Machista, because they meet all these children with the habits of familiarity, and show other cares. We know that our present Social Security shows us clearly its limits in this case, that we cannot take any steps in it, and therefore we think it necessary to acquire the transfer of this power. However, in the course of this attempt, a pilot of a project has been the exact proposal we made. Considering the means and the means we are going to have, a project starting on the path of the model we wish to be, as far as we can see the effects of it. Besides, we've asked for a transfer of authorizations. We must speak of parents' consents, and beg leave to be given in the name of what many families have not in them. In a couple of women, why go on getting paternity license? What about family with only one mother or one father? It is time to consider the number of reality we now have, and to name things by the name they deserve and require. As far as the collective negotiations are concerned, we even made a request to settle the settlement in the centre. We agreed on the basis, but at the creation of the pilot project that is important to us, we have not met any agreement. We haven't had a chance to make an agreement, but we haven't been far away. And, above all, Mrs. Arrigaga, I really want to thank you for your efforts. We didn't make it, but I dare say we have more faith and harmony than a year ago. So, I mean, we're going to keep going this way. Although we haven't made it today, I think we can get to an agreement before it's too late. In this way, I would like to ask Mme. Sánchez to raise the consent that we had a year ago in the government which constitutes its party, to make that little piece of ant, and, as I have said, not so far as we originally planned it, but as to continue our steps from the beginning, from the Government, to a new reading of it, to a new consent, to begin the steps. In conclusion, I would like to thank those who work in the union, and are breaking heteropathic figures in everyday life. Families and Pina associations. These phrases and experiences have been left to us for reflection, as I would fain read to you: "The rights can't be left or given, they're yours." It is not a coincidence that the only right that can be transmitted is to be connected with care. We have to attend to rights and duties, and we are now obliged to take into our hands the duties which we now have as a law; and even to the government, we have required the duties of the law to be held in the hands of the law, and we shall continue to demand it with so many other measures. We are ready to go on step by step, we are ready to take steps on the way of sharing our permits, and we hope that, although we have not been able to arrive at an agreement to-day, we may continue to advance in this direction. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the Euskal popular, Mrs Garrido, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, again, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. We can say, well, we can say that no, that this debate is not news, that we had the same debate in our previous law. The spokesman of EH Collector, it is true, was another, and the spokesman of the Socialist Party, even in that matter, was another person. And in the former law there was an agreement made between the Jeltizer Party, the President and the Populative Party, and, based on this agreement, the Popular Party, at the sight of this proposition, has introduced its correction. On the other hand, when this point was discussed, EH Collect and the Socialist Party came to an agreement, and we may say that this agreement was based on the principle that there was a Socialist party in the preceding law with the position which EH Collect maintained. The debate is not new. As I pointed out, we had an opportunity to discuss this issue in the last parliamentary term. An agreement was reached between the Basque Nationalist Party, People's Party and UPyD, which is what we have tried to re-edit in the amendment presented to the original initiative of EH Bildu. And the last legislature there was another agreement, a compromise amendment between EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, which did not come out, because obviously the one that was adopted in this House was the other compromise amendment. I have to say that from that debate until now, aurreko debatetik hona, aurrerapenak egon say mahai honetan; aurrerapen gehiago egon behar dira, bainsa aurrerapenak egon dira. And there has been progress since the debate we had on this issue on February 25, 2016, because progress has been made in the equalization of birth, adoption and foster care permits among parents. It is true that there is still a journey to be made, but I would like to highlight that progress in this first intervention. Because since January 1, 2017, the four-week paternity permit that was provided for in Organic Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men, and also in Organic Law 9/2009, for the extension of the paternity permit, is under way. And I would also like to remind you – as I said in the previous debate – that the provision for a four-week paternity permit was also introduced following a concrete proposal by the People's Party. So, I want to point out that there has been a breakthrough. Undoubtedly, all those who are going to participate in this debate would like to see further progress, and that is why we are submitting a compromise amendment along the lines of what we have already agreed in the previous parliamentary term, that is, that further progress should be made gradually in the equalisation of permits between the two parents. That is so, gradually in this equalization, and taking into account budgetary availability. From the People's Group we believe, and it is also the second time today that we have also discussed issues of conciliation... The first time has been the result of an initiative by the People's Party to give impetus and strengthen family policies in the area of competence of the Basque Government, a decisive boost in the face of existing failures and the lack of real commitment. And that is why we asked, in the first initiative we discussed this morning on these issues, to increase birth and reconciliation aid in terms of amounts. In the end, we have made it possible for an agreement to come out that, as I say, was insufficient for us, but let us hope that it will be fulfilled, and it was also in line with the government's commitments made in this legislature. And let us hope that it will do so, although we, of course, have to say that in this specific matter we will urge the Executive to go far beyond what has been committed here this morning. Another area of action is the issue of progress in conciliation and the issue of equalization, in order to gradually equate the permits between the two parents. But I also want to say that there is a framework at the state level, which has been promoted by the People's Party, which cannot be overshadowed and which should be remembered, as can be the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, which was also promoted and elaborated by the current President of the People's Party of the Basque Country, today sitting in this House, and former Minister of Health, Social Affairs and Equality. Measures have also been promoted that have facilitated the reconciliation of self-employed workers, including bonuses for self-employed workers when they are in rest. Maternity has been recognized for the first time in the pension system... Today we have all had the opportunity to read in the newspapers how 10,256 Basque women receive a maternity supplement in their pension, and this has made it possible to increase their pension by 6.39% more than average. I think that is a way, and those are the ways in this case to recognize the contribution of women workers in society. I would also like to recall here a plan to promote women in rural areas. I must also recall here the commitments of the present Government to promote a pact for the reconciliation and rationalization of hours, and a special plan for equality between men and women in the field of work and against wage discrimination. That is why we too would like to see, in line with the conciliation, family-related actions already launched by the Government of Spain – and with this news it is clear that they are measures that have a real effect, insofar as there are women who receive this supplement in pensions because they have been mothers – we would also like the Basque Government to make a greater commitment on all these issues. And that is why in our amendment we also called for the Basque Government to present, within four months, a package of measures in the field of work to facilitate conciliation. And above all, when we talk about conciliation, we talk about conciliation with minors and dependents. We have been close to an agreement (here yes, Mrs Sánchez, we have been talking; on this subject we have been talking, and also until quite late yesterday), but it has not been possible at the end of an agreement. I hope that next time it will be possible, and that of course we will look more at the points of union than at the disagreements, which I believe on this issue, which also made possible an agreement in the previous parliamentary term, so there are more points of union than of disunity. But it seems that, well, this time we have focused more on the friction points, on the disagreements, than on the points of union. And that's why at last we vote for our correction. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u75	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u76	Thank you very much, President. Again on this point we are going to talk about conciliation and equality. Equality in the co-responsibility and equalization of birth permits, adoption and reception of children. In our society, it is still the woman who mostly takes care of the children and the elderly. That is a reality that needs to be changed if we are ever to achieve real and effective equality between men and women and to advance co-responsibility within the family. And that causes women to have a double workload that men, regardless of the type of family we wanted to create. Because of this situation, which is not only a cultural issue perpetuated over time, women continue to suffer differential and discriminatory treatment that is reflected in many issues. The wage gap between men and women continues to widen; it continues to suffer more precarious work, hired more than men through temporary and part-time contracts; a labour reform that makes it easier to change the working conditions of the employer, with simpler changes in hours. This makes it much more difficult for women to reconcile their professional and family life, and by receiving lower wages than men to make it even easier for women to choose within the family to reconcile, given that they contribute less income to the family unit. That is why, in order to achieve true equality, we need not only support, but also much more action, mainly in the workplace. There are issues that we cannot change here and which are for the Government of Spain, but there are other measures that can be taken by the Basque Government. The increase in paternity permits, better known as birth permits, adoption or reception of children, is one of them. There are models in other European countries, such as Iceland, where these permits can be of equal duration for women and men, and that can be a way for men to become much more involved in co-responsibility, and, on the other hand, for women not to be punished in the workplace, because in the same way men or women will be able to make use of such permits. There are many measures that can help to achieve this. Measures such as teleworking are important to improve conciliation, and it can be a step forward that socialists start in the Basque administration and that must be more developed and used among private companies. It can also be transferred to the field of social dialogue, encouraging the rationalization of timetables in collective negotiations. Or, as we have also proposed from the Socialist Party, set up hourly credits for the care of families equally for men and women, without this affecting their wages. And we have to think about these new forms of family today. Its legal recognition in all areas, on an equal footing, has been an important social achievement, but it has not yet had a reflection in the field of conciliation, nor in the name given to birth, adoption and reception permits. We bet clearly that men are better integrated into work and home care and that they are fully involved in the care of the family, both of children and of sick or disabled family members. Mrs Etxebarrieta, you have brought this initiative by reproducing a very similar one that you had raised in the previous legislature, and you have come to create a controversy or to open a certain crack between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, but I must remind you that this literal agreement that was reached at that time... The situation at that time is not the same as it exists right now. Things have been done since then. Progress has been made, as Mrs Garrido said, and progress has also been made, and new situations that did not exist at the time have been recognised in legislation. In addition, a governance agreement has been signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which also attaches particular importance to the strategy pursued in the family sphere. And in this agreement too, as I indicated in my previous intervention on the third point, a number of improvements are included, such as improvements in the system of economic aid, tax incentives, more effective measures in the field of co-responsibility and conciliation... Also promote in collective bargaining work and family reconciliation measures to promote greater flexibility... I therefore feel that today we have not been able to finally sign a compromise amendment with a sufficient majority so that something can be adopted at this point, and we will therefore vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of which we tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, because I believe that it contained points that can be improved here in our field, in the area of the actions that the Basque Government can carry out, as well as the Spanish Government was also urged to carry out others in its field. The amendment in its entirety stated that the Basque Parliament urged the Government of Spain to implement immediately a comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in cases of birth, reception and adoption; to establish a permit of equal duration for each intransferable parent, with a maximum benefit on his or her regulatory basis and with equal protection at his or her workplace during the exercise of maternity and paternity rights; to provide for a timetable for the implementation of the measures to be taken, as well as their economic cost; and that the reform should use a designation of the permit in line with the new family models and without any gender bias. And, likewise, Parliament urges the Basque Government to carry out the economic impact study of the equalisation of parental leave provided for in the I Plan for Equality of Women and Men of the General Administration and its autonomous bodies, so that they are of equal duration and non-transferable. Finally, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to refer to this House for debate and approval a public employment project which envisages measures for the reconciliation of personal, family and work life and which adapts the designation of permits and licences to the new family realities, using non-discriminatory language. I believe that with this amendment steps were taken, moving forward more than the compromise amendments that were adopted in this House at the time. And, therefore, we have made an effort, and, as we have also done on the third point, we have not been able to sign it in the end. We thought it could be possible to sign it with the People's Party, nor was it possible at this sixth point, and therefore we are going to do the same. We are going to support our amendment as a whole, and I urge the People's Party to think about it, and instead of voting against it, I am voting in favour of our amendment as a whole, so that something can be done to make progress on this path. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u77	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. A few weeks ago, the president introduced the legislature program. In a direct connection with the subject of today, we are able to remark that it was the law of the Basque Public Emplegue. Unfortunately, in the past law, we didn't have time to get ahead, and we hope it's his moment now. All the groups, once again, will have a perfect opportunity in this circle to make our demands and contributions, and I hope it will be a chance to arrive at the grand consents. In the course of this law, which is not unknown, the Government proposes, by a step forward, to prolong both the leave of motherhood and the leave of fatherhood, and amongst many other propositions, that they may always be of the same duration, and in the way of the first equality of government, as it is contained in the present plan. This isn't a match, we know, even though I'd like that, but if it's progress, it's a step ahead to get that situation. The object of this bill is to update the public employment system which was prescribed by the Public Function 25 years ago, since this law has been established since 1989. I'd like to take a look at the other proposal as described by the Basque People as the Collector. In this case the points are demanded, but these two I would like to show. On the one hand, including birth, adoption and reception license reforms, the same, unreproachable, and 100 percent paid. That's what we agree with. It would be the most important measure for us to break up our care and care in roles, or to work and work for women to be the penalty for it. In other words, I'd like to highlight this: To suggest a progressively matcher project, to develop it in the future in public and private areas, with the consent of the union representation. And on this point we find the dissent with the proposal of the EHG. I would like to base this disagreement upon several arguments: First of all, this leads me again to the discussion of the project of the Public Basque Emplegue, and why this space is not used to explain and explain all these plannings in it. During the last few weeks this reflection recurs to my mind: why we have begun to make such proposals in our unions, when we shall have the bill of law in the legislature, and then we shall be able to develop it in a whole manner. On the other hand, our group is clear that, as regards the measures to be taken in the equalisation of permits, whether by birth, adoption or reception, and as the framework in which we work is that of the public service, these must be the proposals analysed, discussed and agreed at the collective bargaining table. That is the procedure, and it concerns the executive that governs at that time and the different trade unions. It is not acceptable that Parliament should be the one to propose or establish what measures will be taken in this negotiation. And in this case the permit-related measures have already been agreed and collected within the I Plan for the Equality of Women and Men of the General Administration and its autonomous bodies. That is why we give every legitimacy and confidence to the measures that derive from this negotiation and that are collected and channelled. This plan, as I said, was published on October 19, 2016, and, within the framework of the management model designed to materialize it, is at the time or key process of developing the strategy designed for the implementation of the plan, and more specifically on the milestone of constituting a permanent equality commission. The first meeting of this standing commission will be convened in the coming days, and the actions to be carried out during 2017 will be established, prioritizing those that the commission considers most appropriate. That is why we intend to carry out a study on the economic impact of the equalisation of permits according to the plan, which must be of equal duration and non-transferable, as I have said in Basque. It is therefore the first uneasiness, that E.H.G. is the pilot of the project proposed in his proposal, that it would be something which was either established or introduced from the outside of the collective agreement, and therefore we do not see it. And then we have our worries about the content. We can talk about patterns with several examples. Iceland pattern, EH Collector likes it. He brought it to this table last year, and even today he put it on the table, but from Norway, from Sweden... we have several of them. And we can look upon any advanced standard, but we do not know which of them would be the best for us... All these examples should be examined. Based on an offering diagnostic? It could be. Or why not based on a diagnosis of the result of the interaction of all departments? It is always in the sphere of collective negotiation that we have always protected, and that is where we have to make an agreement. It may not be based on any other model, and within this negotiation we may find our own model. Who knows! As an example, the model of Iceland forces my father to take a third of his license. We don't like that. Or that it is only an obligation to take one third of the consent, the other is voluntary. We don't think that's gonna help us build a hundred percent of reactional bases. And besides, you don't pay at 100%. This applies to our powers in relation to the public service. Thirdly, and as the latter argument, I would like to remark what we have done without public employment. The competition limit is bright, even if it doesn't please you. It's an example, and we can't make decisions and make measures without noticing. It's an old revision that makes my party around the state of social security transfer, but as long as this is done, we must face this matter in a realistic way, and always aim at the welfare of our Basque society. In Madrid, several times have recently been admitted to step by either unanimously or by large majority on the way to the equality of permits. If you'd take over those extensions and permits proposed by Social Security, it'd be a lot more responsibilities for her. He's already doing it inside his jurisdiction, but he'd have a chance to go far away. For I would like to explain one thing to you here today, for we are incapable of matching any sudden permission, to set it up tomorrow. It's not a disagreement about that. What we have in hand is about the steps to start taking steps in favor of this comparison of permission. And while we are speaking step by step to take measures, we ought to establish our discussion of the present day, or at least the way of space, which we shall discuss, or which we shall open to-day, who fixes these examples or examples. Mrs. Houseboy said we're not far away. I think so too. The posts aren't that opposite. We have before us the whole law to establish this example, to fix these measures... I think we'll be able to get to a big deal. At least, until now, I have heard the tone of our teams, for I have guessed from what has happened that light and important development, this change of tone and presbytery, and I should like to thank them for having used all these groups. So, in our opinion, it's an important moment to give strong and progressive steps, but effective and realistic steps. The necessity of the measures of culture is reality, and all responsible agents cannot be conditioned. Parenthood has also been spoken of in an integral manner, not only in comparison of the permission, but in a more extensive protection to the families. The Expulsion is one of the main strategies of this government, and it is essential to enter with corporations and unions into the desk diary. So, as I have said before, this government continues to advance, but respecting its outer space and time. And for all of this, as Mrs. Sánchez has said, we believe that our teams and the Socialists have represented together are the most proper corrections, both for the present and for the present, and so we shall defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. A group that hasn't committed any correction together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u80	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, at table, members of the legislature. In its day, when the parliamentary group EH Bildu presented this parliamentary initiative at Mrs Etxebarrieta's hand, we did not amend it, believing that this was a good initiative, and following the arguments heard here today we continue to think the same thing. Care, that unrecognized work as such, invisible; that work which is still considered non-productive and therefore does not add up to the calculation of a country's gross domestic product, which only includes the activities to which a monetary value is attributed; a work whose direct objective is the satisfaction of needs, has a strong affective component, is characterized by the realization of multiple tasks at the same time, by a component of constant management of times and spaces, and by the multiplicity of necessary knowledge. It is a job where the difference between life and working time is extremely difficult, especially when combined with different forms of paid work. Where do we place care in our society, centre and engine of life, and when the whole socio-economic system depends on it? That is the fundamental issue in this parliamentary initiative. Care plays a strategic role, as we all need it at some point in our lives in order to exist, even if this is intensified, more or less, throughout our life cycle, according to our poor or old age, or according to our state of health. Therefore, the ideal of self-sufficiency is unreal, since all of us are interdependent, in the face of the opposing logics of care needs and capital valuation needs. It is obvious that the current system prioritizes the second logic, making it impossible to respond simultaneously to both, and hence the problems of conciliation arise, because mostly care work is carried out in the private sphere, and historically it has fallen and continues to fall on us, women. This makes this work invisible and at the same time avoids giving it the economic value it has. The reconciliation policies developed so far are creating a trap for women. As can be seen from the data published by Lanbide, this tool, which in principle was articulated so that work and personal life could be reconciled, has ended up being an instrument most of which women are welcomed. In this sense, Lanbide's data on inclusion in the labour market, part-time work, surpluses or abandonment of the same motivated by care, which we can all see also in the gender impact report in budgets, are compelling: the primary responsibility for the care of dependent people remains on women. Women do not have equal access to the labour market. It is a violation of their rights, and a waste of women's productive capital. For example, academically we have higher levels of qualification and better performance; despite the good levels of qualification, the burden of care often prevents them (we do not) from maintaining employment, making a career and reaching decision-making positions. At the global level, the ILO reports that women with children charge 5% less than those with children. The possibility of becoming a poor worker, according to Oxfam, is 7% higher if you have one child, and increases to 11% if you have two. In Euskadi, the gender gap in the occupation rate increases as more offspring are born: when no children are born, the gap is 7.2%, while it rises to 15% when two or more children are born. It is necessary, it is essential to consider and rely on this data when designing policies for economic development, employment or work. But not only are the inclusion or quality of employment that women access: the burden of care that they take also leaves them with time for social or political participation, self-care of health, access to training, cultural proposals, leisure and leisure time, etc., etc. Ultimately, the burden compromises the exercise of full citizenship on equal terms with men. The data show that women are still being treated today as the main caregivers, and therefore it seems to be a problem exclusively of them, exclusively of us. Within that logic, they (we) and not men are made responsible (we are made responsible) for the change and adequacy of their lives. They are not required to make changes to reconcile work and family life. We believe it is essential to overcome this discourse, and to seek real solutions of co-responsibility. We also believe it is essential to redefin the work beyond the wage earner, making visible the care work necessary for the sustainability of life. It is necessary to generate a social responsibility based on the sustainability of life, making visible our character as interdependent beings that we are. It is urgent to highlight the work that makes it possible to maintain life and to redistribute care responsibilities, making the tensions of conciliating public and non-individualized and private. It is therefore time to move beyond conciliation and to speak and implement effective co-responsibility measures to ensure that women and men are on equal terms, both in the private and public spheres. It is also time to overcome the traditional family image, which consists of a heterosexual couple with employment with sons and daughters. The many family models already in existence, such as those made up of two women or two men, among many others, that are also providing well-being to people in need of care, must be visible and supported with concrete measures. That is why we emphasize changing the terms (maternity or paternity permit), and welcome the terms "birth, adoption or reception permit" proposed in this initiative proposed by the EH Bildu group. As Mrs Etxebarrieta has rightly pointed out, it is neither inclusive nor fair that, in families made up of two women, one of them today still has to take parental leave. We also underline and stress from this initiative that permits are non-transferable. No labour law is transferable. Not holidays, not retirement, not weekends, not unemployment benefit. Therefore, permissions by birth, adoption or reception should also not be granted. And we take this opportunity to recall that there are a large number of women in single-parent families, with dependent children, who face numerous difficulties. The data from Save the Children's latest report were conclusive in this regard. According to 2014 data, boys and girls in heterosexual family arrangements in situations of real poverty were 9 per cent, compared to 26 in single-parent families; while 13 per cent of boys and girls in families made up of homosexual couples were in a state of lack of well-being, compared to 47 in single-parent families, which were largely forgotten. This data should challenge and challenge us to rethink policies to support families who do not comply with the stereotype imposed by a heterosexual couple. From Elkarrekin We believe that this parliamentary initiative represents a further step towards co-responsibility; however, much remains to be done to overcome conciliation measures based on the previous definition of women as the problem group, being the main objective of sanctions, and also on the idea that women are mothers and workers who must be helped to reconcile work and family life. Plantation that seems absolutely wrong and out of time. The co-responsibility of women, men and the State must be the beacon, because we all have the right to be cared for, and because we all have the right and responsibility to care. This must be the horizon of all the initiatives and measures that we drive in this Parliament. That is why we are voting in favour of the initiative proposed by the EH Bildu parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing by the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseland, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u82	Thank you. I didn't mean to go out, but with Mrs. Sanchez's interrogation of me... I want to tell you that I am not here to create any crack between the Socialist Party and the Jeltzale. Not at all. I come to work to improve the conditions of permits, and to achieve equal rights and responsibilities. If you see that this is a problem or that it can cause problems in your coalition, then fix them between you, but don't come to me to put responsibilities that I don't have. I was coming to propose a concrete proposal, and not for that purpose at all, and above all the intervention I have made before was not at all in that direction. But, well, I felt challenged by what you said and wanted to answer that. We also intended to remark, that we understood in some way what Mrs. Arriguegaaga said, when you mentioned that it was necessary to cultivate this space rather than perhaps to encourage the pilot of a project, and that we considered it possible to discuss a proposition in it, rather than to bring it to a closed collective agreement, and I believe that we can give our steps in that direction, and we shall see how it should be done. I would like to thank Mrs. Arana: I can't say anything else, but share all the contribution I've made. And, well, we're talking recently about how we want to be a model, to make steps in the direction of equality, and to take steps in the States of equality, because I think this is a beautiful opportunity, and it may be a nice opportunity to be a pioneer in that direction, perhaps we can agree to that Euscal standard which will be better than that of Iceland, can't we? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Eta amaitzeko... I would like to end up in a slightly more kind tone and reiterate my thanks again for the work we have done, for the work we will continue to do, and above all for the feminist movement, for the diverse families, for the associations, which show us that there is desire, that there are needs, that there are other ways of doing, and that we can move on. And we'll keep doing it, and for them we'll keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Popular parties don't... The Social Party, Mrs Sánchez... That's very good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u84	President, briefly from the seat. I was not going to intervene, but, as Mrs Etxebarrieta has referred to me, because simply tell her that, come on, there is no problem in the government agreement for this initiative. Of course not. But what I was pointing out to you in my first speech is that you have made reference to us defending a position in the previous legislature, and what I have explained to you is that from the previous legislature up to now, from the time this issue has been dealt with to now, things have happened. Since then, a number of improvements have been approved at the legislative level, which have changed the situation somewhat, and a government agreement has also been signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, where the whole strategy for the family is put into practice and where a number of improvements are also included – which I have already referred to and which I am not going to repeat – which are very clear and which go in that line of what we also advocate at the time. What is clearly reflected here is the desire to improve, has been improved since then, and therefore, of course, we will defend our amendment as a whole, the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, because it also serves to make further progress in this direction. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u85	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians... ? Together Podemos... ? Now that the dispute has ended, we shall vote with the original text of the proposition as well as the EH Collector. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u86	So, not allowed original text. Second, we will vote for the full correction of the Basque Team. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u87	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. We'll next vote for the Eucan Abertist and the general correction of the Sociialists of Basque Sociialists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u88	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentary Society of the Euscals, as made by Populary Poptians, concerning the production of a power to examine the reform of the Rule of the Parliament. Discipline and final resolution. Mr Barrio, representing the Potula, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u89	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, I will be very brief, because there is a great deal of agreement on the initiative we are presenting. In the last parliamentary term, the groups identified many needs for improvement of the Regulation, put them on the table, but they did not make any progress on the issue and we cannot deal with the regulatory reform in conditions. We must now proceed in a different way, with more or better methods, with determination in essence. There are many issues that affect different extremes of regulatory regulation: time limits, intervention times, characteristics of initiatives, procedures, participation in presentations, budgetary control, issues related to the legislative procedure, time of appearances, motions, calls, etc. The needs are broad, and need to be analysed. And they must be analysed at this time from the point of view of method, rigour and needs. This is a necessary reform, it goes beyond, and that must be considered so. It goes beyond a sectoral political will or a parliamentary group or technical reform. It goes beyond that. In the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament it is necessary to make clear what is being done: the political will of citizens is being channelled into the Rules of Procedure as regards the work of parliamentarians, our role of control or impulse, and the work of parliamentarians and parliamentary groups. The regulation of a parliament, in this case ours, is a very important instrument, it is a very important strategy, it is a very important tool, which channels precisely that popular will into the work of parliamentarians. We understand that we have fulfilled the objective with the presentation of the initiative and with the signing of the transaction. We have fulfilled the objective of reaching a working agreement, of identifying these needs for analysis and reform, and of putting in place the machinery: the machinery of that analysis, the machinery of that reform, which seems to be and which on other occasions has been able to give the feeling of being very complex, of being very heavy, and of not functioning well greased. No; it is necessary to review our Rules of Procedure and to bring them into line with the needs of parliamentary control and impetus. Other issues need to be taken into account: agility in procedures, agility in parliamentary work, sometimes overcoming regulatory constraints on procedures, parliamentary practices, some inefficiencies (they are there, we can see them almost every day in our parliamentary practice), and the development – it is quite clear also – of accommodation to the times (to the needs of transparency, communication, information, participation, the possibilities of the work of parliamentarians in this House). It was also necessary – from our point of view we identified it this way – to specify and agree on a deadline. That deadline will be that immediately after this debate we will do the constitution within one month, and then by the end of the year we will do the work, I say again, with that method, with that rigour, in relation to the regulatory amendment. In the previous legislature we identified needs. And we detected them by parliamentary groups, but they were also detected and also identified by the legal services of the House. And that, in fact, is also an important analysis factor. The report of the Chamber's services spoke of many issues relating to the needs for regulatory reform: the pre-event proceedings, the Bureau, the institutional statements, the deadline for the convening of committees, the automatic convening of committees, the diversity of time limits for calls, urgent calls, time limits for committee proceedings, presentations created in plenary, the House's Committee on Rules and Budgets, the publicity of committees of inquiry, the conclusions of the committee of study, the commission of petitions, general operating provisions, special sessions and timetables for activities, the delegation of votes, the tie-ups, the extension and reduction of extensions, urgent procedures, the time-limits of grace, the Government's replies, appearances in the legislative procedure, full compromise amendments, etc., etc. and so on. One-time reading procedure, lehendakari designation, proposer group time in non-legislative proposals, votes, accumulations, time limits for motions, time limits for ratifying questions and calls for case studies... There are many issues on the table, there are many issues that we can well discuss, and what I have to put forward is a parliamentary agreement on the work we have to do in the coming months. And so we have reached an agreement that within one month of the adoption of this initiative, and taking into account the new challenges and demands relating to the information, transparency and participation of citizens, the plenary of the Basque Parliament calls for the establishment, within the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Government, of the presentation provided for in the second additional provision of the Rules of Procedure of the House. And, on the other hand, that the work to be carried out – this is important – by the presentation will begin as soon as possible, in order to provide the committee with a report on the application of the Regulation, as well as any amendments that are deemed appropriate, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of this House, before the end of this year, before the end of 2017. Now what we have to do, ladies and gentlemen, is work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u91	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good noon, everyone. Well, really, with what Mr Barrio has said we all agree, although it is true that our group has just entered and we have seen more needs than Mr Barrio has commented. It is true that we were surprised that the amendments made by any of the groups that have been here for a few years did not mention in any of them what actual needs to amend the Regulation. Already in the reading that was done in 2011 there were comments like that, "knowing that in two or three months the new regulation would have to be amended", at the time when it was being discussed. Or Mr Barrio himself, who, while accepting the improvement of the rule governing parliamentary life, ended his speech by pointing out at least two of the aspects in which there was apparently no agreement (the establishment of a budgetary control office, and some elements relating to legal certainty), as he wanted to announce a next initiative, because we did not comply with what we have. I mean, it was a half-closing. In Elkarrekin We can agree with an intervention of the last legislature of Mr Iturrate, which specified that the laws must be dynamic and adapt to the passage of time, and that the regulations of the chambers are the basic norms that establish the rules of play, a framework of play that for all parliamentary groups must be clear and stable, and not subject to the dawn of the games of majorities and minorities of every moment. We have clear priorities. The important thing isn't in here. It's not about the number of initiatives, the number of minutes we have to talk about... The essential thing is that the House promotes initiatives to help Basque citizens, to improve their well-being and quality of life. For this, we certainly need clear and effective rules to help us in this task and to control us if we are not able to agree on the best solution for the people we live in this country. And in the specific case we are dealing with today, it cannot happen that we devote an hour and twenty (which, by the way, we are not going to do) to an issue on which we are all agreed, especially when this measure has already been discussed in its day and has been systematically breached. We have not found a single report on this, among the archives of Parliament, which implies what the second additional provision says. It follows from the foregoing that, obviously, it is necessary to include in the Rules themselves some mechanism for controlling our own parliamentary activity, no longer only with regard to attendance at plenary sessions and committees, but also to the implementation of agreements that are taken up in this House, and the rest of the obligations laid down by the rules under which we are to be governed. Similarly, from our parliamentary group we believe that it would be appropriate to collect some of the criteria and contents on which the need for reform must be addressed, ensuring citizen participation, democratization of appointments and gender equality within parliamentary bodies. To enable family reconciliation, the delegation of voting by force majeure or the consideration of telematic voting; the articulation of mechanisms that enable self-fiscalization, and, last but not least, the revision of our Rules of Procedure from a gender perspective, which enables the feminist transformation of politics. Realizing that all this will be able to be incorporated into the presentation that will be made within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Government, we have had sex with the People's Party, the Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialists so that we can start working in this direction before the end of the year. Thank you. JB sir, thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. What is reflected on this other proposition of the Law, is nothing but what the Rule receives. The same discussion we had during the legislature in this Chamber. What, after all, was demanded at its own time, and what was asked to-day is to form a form of poncie, with two different ends; the first, to report the yearly, to appreciate or evaluate the application and changes of this ruler; the second, to receive proposals, to make recommendations, and to plan new things. On the other hand, he must consider that the rule regulates our activity, and that rule ought to be alive, since we often, after all, verify that this regulation is in many senses absurd, or that there must be some articles to be arranged. This is why the annual evaluation of regulations is proper to adapt to our duty. So we're sure that in the next few months, as soon as the performance begins, we'll put all the groups on the table and all the possible changes. EH agrees with the original proposal, but by our correction we wanted to go beyond it, to add to it the intervention and information of the people. We at least do not understand the activity of political groups without transparency; we believe in the mutual intercourse of men and the participation of citizens. And that's the reason for our full correction. The middle-class contractor who's signed by the rest of the legal teams is responsible for the whole of us. So, if we don't reveal our signature, we need to explain the reasons, we'll protect him. We're not going to read the agreement because Mr. Barrio's involved in it. But, to conclude, I would like to mention the work done in the legislation that was past, because the work of poncience was advanced, and it seems to us very important to examine the proposals that were made. In fine, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in 2017 we shall have done our homework, and hope to end much better than in the legislature that has passed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u94	Yes, thank you, President, Lehendakari. Ladies and gentlemen. Taking into account the various regulations that have been in place for this House, the most important, most substantial reform took place in 2008, and both in 1983 and twenty-five years later the principle that inspired both draft amendments was the principle of maximum agreement. The most important of the regulatory change was not so much its scope as to achieve the maximum possible consensus in its terms. The regulatory amendment of 2008 allowed the Basque Parliament to be more agile in its operation, to be much closer to the interests and concerns of citizens, and also to move forward with greater transparency. This amendment to the 2008 Rules made it possible to revitalize parliamentary work and to establish more effective mechanisms for monitoring the management of the Government. Improvements have gradually been introduced, such as clarification of the rights and duties of parliamentarians, measures against cross-fugueism, powers of the Board of Spokespersons, ensuring parliamentary voting on maternity leave, the establishment of full control as the best accountability mechanism of the Government, the agile functioning of the commissions, facilitating the formation of parliamentary groups by reducing their number of components, resolving the ties between candidates to preside over the House, creating the statute of the parliamentarian, the prevalence of the will of the parliamentarian over failures or errors in the voting system. Over the years, mechanisms have been introduced to improve the participation of citizens in the work of Parliament. And in 2011 there was a point-by-point amendment in some aspects of that regulation which had a substantial change in 2008. And that modification of 2011 was a punctual modification, a modification of the adjustment calls. Because it was necessary, given the various dysfunctions that had occurred based on the experience that had been maintained with the practical application of the Regulation. That is why progress was made in the commissions of inquiry (they were proposed open and they were made open), the presence of all the political forces in the presentations was ensured, the intergroups and also the vote on the return of the bills when there were full amendments; it was also possible to reclassify on the part of the Bureau and ex officio various parliamentary initiatives. All these issues and some more have gradually become part of the Rules of Procedure of the House over time, and this has allowed this Parliament to gain credibility with society and also to facilitate parliamentary work. But it is also true that we have sometimes adapted to the times without the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, for example when, on the proposal of the Basque Socialists, Parliament opened a transparency portal which has allowed us to scale up various positions as an institution in the quality with which we are accountable to the citizens. And we must also point out, in order to put the issue in its proper terms, that it has been sufficient for some matters to be dealt with with with with political will so that they become effective without touching the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, other issues have been incorporated into the Rules of Procedure with a very broad consensus and without just discussion. And other issues will certainly have to be worked on in the longer term, because if we need profound reform, we will also have to work on those broad agreements that have already taken place. And for the future too, these vast agreements will be needed. Look, in February 2013, in the past parliamentary term, the Basque Socialists put forward a non-legislative proposal to request regulatory amendments concerning the improvement of transparency, the speeding up of the work and the participation of this House. We then asked to deal, for example, with the regulatory inclusion of the publication and control of the declaration of property of all of us and ourselves, the extension of the authorization of the sessions, speeding up the time limits of the constitution of Parliament and the designation of lehendakari... All these issues, which were not subject to substantial reform, could be addressed through the procedure provided for in the second additional provision of the current regulation, in order to make this Parliament a more effective, more agile, more transparent and more participatory institution. That is why we understand that, since it is not a question of making a new regulation here, because the rules of operation must be maintained over time – and more so when they counted, as Mr Iturrate said at the time, with very broad consensus – and that, instead, it can be interesting and productive to try to incorporate some solutions to those dysfunctions that have occurred, or even improvements in the functioning of the House, the most practical thing is to use the mechanism of that second additional provision of the regulation to make agile revisions that allow us to polish this law, as the amendment that we have had and that will count on the unanimity of the House says. In conclusion, the Socialists hope that the spirit of broad and maximum consensus will also really be the one to be imposed on the work that awaits both the presentation and the committee, in order to make, among all the parliamentarians, this regulation a useful instrument that will really facilitate parliamentary work and make it – as I said before – more agile, more transparent and more participatory. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission from the seat. In this respect, in short, we have nothing to do but to observe what is commanded by the second and second regulations of the rule. In this sense, it is quite intelligible that the unanimousity we shall receive today. I would like to thank Mrs Macazaga for referring in her first speech in this plenary to the teaching of this Member on this subject, citing but, apart from the quotations to which she referred, I have made some more. I have done something else that Mrs Corcuera has mentioned, and I think it is important in this matter. It was the reference to the need for the regulations of the chambers to be the result of the broadest possible consensus. Because it is clear that, like all laws, the regulations of the chambers are an expression of the will of the majority, but if anything is, and if any virtue has and we must defend, they are also the right and guarantee of the rights of minorities. That is why I was saying then – and you have brought it up – that you must not be at the dawn of the specific majorities and minorities of every moment, and your changes must respond to broad consensus. That is the will we face, that of fulfilling the mandate of the second additional provision of the current regulation, to bring the regulation into line with today's needs, but not to completely reverse the regulation. Because, first, we consider that we have a good regulation, which was adopted in 2008 and until the ninth legislature did not start to apply, and because we want to preserve those consensuses. There is good work done so far by the legal services of the House, in which the points and areas of improvement are well identified in the Rules of Procedure, and I think that if we also want to meet the deadlines we have given ourselves, then it is good that we stick to that work. Because many times the failure to meet these deadlines, those mandates that Mrs Macazaga denounced, is simply impossible to reach broad consensus, and, of course, in this case too, if in 2017 we are not able to reach broad consensus on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, then we will fail again in that respect. But not in the substantive, in the fundamental, that it is to have a good regulation and that it also responds to the will of the majority, if it is possible to the same unanimity with which today we approve the proposal not of law. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Someone wants to take the word... ? No. All right. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, Euskal Socialists, and together with the middle-term correction signed by Podemos and Euubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2017-03-09.u98	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-eight.
